ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION In accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure, at the initiative of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, at the level of party leaders, on the phenomenon of inter- and corruption and their influence on the institutional and political system of the country and their treatment. Under Rule 143(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the speaking time of the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, on whose initiative the debate takes place, is thirty minutes of the time. The speaking time of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, of the New Democracy Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michalliakos, the Democratic Assent of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Fotinis (Phos) Gennimatas, Mr. Dimitrios Koutsoubas, Mr. Stavros Theodorakis, the Independent Greeks Mr. Panagiotis Kammenos and the Union of Kentros Vasilis Leventis is 20 minutes of the hour for everyone. As far as time is concerned, there is always consensus and flexibility. There's no particular issue. We know that. Up to two Ministers shall take part in the debate. The speaking time of the ministers is up to ten minutes of the hour. The speaking time of the Minister intervening at the stage of the main speeches or of the seconds before the speeches or the seconds of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups are completed shall be limited to half of the time allowed. The Prime Minister has the right for 15 minutes and for 10 minutes the Presidents of Parliament and the Ministers. Finally, the Prime Minister can quantify for five minutes of the hour. The Ministers have declared that the Minister of State, Mr. Nikos Papapas, and the Deputy Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr. Dimitrios Papaggiopoulou, will speak. Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. During the previous day's debate in the House, Mr Mitsotakis, when the debate went to the issues of corruption and interlocutory, chose to escape. But we will not allow that, Mr Mitsotakis. Today you will be apologising for both lies and slander, but above all for your things, because you did not show up yesterday in the political life of the country. Everyone in this space and in this country has their own history and you have yours. From the first moment of your election to the office of President of the New Democracy, you have prompted this story to confirm it. You have immediately allied with the oldest and corrupt system of interlocutory in the country, with all those who have a huge share of responsibility - along with your governments - for the bankruptcy of the country, with those who had learned to have the customer state and to take with the blessings of your sea-loving governments with air guarantees. And while you were in the leadership of Officerial Response, four months after the September elections - last year - and with fresh popular verdict he gave for the second time in just seven months a clear mandate for governance in SYRIZA with seven and a half units, you almost the first day, and if it was just four, five months after the elections, asked for elections, no matter what the country's situation, for the critical first assessment and, of course, for the critical negotiations on debt write-offs. And in absolute matching and excellent cooperation with the mediators - old and young - and, of course, with publishers, you have engaged in a lyric attack, in a relentless war against the country's recently elected government. You know, what is happening in the country a year and a half now on the part of the interactive and mediatoral system, with your support and assistance, is nothing simple. It will be the subject of a study for the sociologists and historians of the future, for the political analysts, because it is a constant attempt to alter the popular will and the many expressions expressed - and indeed two and three times - by a people's mandate. It is, in my view, a constant attempt at a post-modern form of coup, not military but mediating, with weapons of lies, with guns of slander, with arms of propaganda. And you know what? Today we are not living the first, but the third act of this lasting attempt. The first act was played during the period of financial suffocation, when the New Democracy supported the efforts of lenders with nails and teeth, but failed. The second act was played with the asymmetrical catastrophe during the period of the first and most difficult evaluation, when you had put all your money to the IMF, when the IMF asked for additional measures from the 3.6 billion euro agreement, and then you asked Tomsen to hold fast. But you lost again and your disobedience was frenzy. Today we come here to monitor the third act, namely, the rabies effort of the bankrupt political system and its media partners to wrap the country in the dark. And they are trying to do so, observing the principle that the lie that is constantly repeated, at the end becomes a system of truth. That's their target. And that is their goal because they seem to have too much to hide and even more to cover up. And that's why they want to throw that government down, because first of all, this government has stopped doing the carpets to them. And from behind, of course, you depress them. But you know what? Playing your change all the time, in the end you will have nothing left to play and you will lose everything. And just because you know that, you are now fighting backs. And you know that, because all your great hopes for the economy to collapse, to collapse revenue, to destroy the country - all your hopes! - one - one they erase. All the sizes of the economy, despite your expectations, suggest that we have now been in a phase not only of stabilisation but also of recovery. You accused us of charging the country because we had to get a third loan. Really, why? Why? To pay off our own broken or broken governments for forty years? You accused us of dismantling the country and bringing down the recession with the tough negotiation, when you, who chose not to negotiate at all, are responsible for the declining in a five-year period of the country's Gross Domestic Product by twenty-five whole units. While we, the first year of our responsibility - in 2016 - have already returned to a positive pace and for the first time for many years we have been closing down with a positive figure, and even the hardest of our creditors predict that growth will be high, close to 3% next year. You also accused us of destroying the economy, of breaking the revenues and applying the cutter. In the end, in the most difficult year, this year of negotiation, the two elections and the one referendum, we have achieved a surplus greater than you have left in the licensed funds that we received, while in the first nine months of 2016, despite the Cassandra of summer, we already have 1.4 billion above the target. So this dream of the collapse of revenue goes too. The first evaluation is being formally closed. Soon the last money will be disbursed. And that will disappoint you, then. The most important of all is that - because you know, the figures are figures, but it is important to see how these are reflected in social reality - with the help of the funds from the NRP, which for the first time at the place - ask yourself why, for the first time, they were absorbed close to 100%, but also with the lasting record of tourism, we managed, within a year and a half, to deviate by almost four units. And it's constantly falling. And these are elements which you cannot deny, because they are precisely elements of "ERGANI". In 2016 we had two thousand more jobs. So here's why the New Democracy and its Chief have chosen to fight back, running behind bankrupt canals and publishers. Because it's your last hope, Mr. Mitsotakis, because each of you has fallen out and above all because you can't stand another - and you and your friends, the state-run and intertwined businessmen - be away from the chairs of power. But, gentlemen, you must digest it: you will stay away from the government benches for many years. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And you know, not only because the operation of intimidation and catastrophe by the already deported Greek media does not pass, but mainly because the Greek people - what should we do? - She didn't teach you yesterday. He knows you, and he remembers you very well. And every time you, in particular, are criticizing and, in particular, criticising the social consequences of the programme, do you know what our people say? The very simple thing: "Look who's talking," the Greek people say. "Look who's talking." Mr Mitsotakis speaks, who does not miss an opportunity to be identified at all times with the most extreme of the positions of the creditors. Mr Mitsotakis speaks, who had presented the horizontal cuts as one-way and assimilated - during the five-year period of the disaster - as a whole 40% of pensions and committed - as the entire Samara government at that time - to the zero deficit clause. Mr Mitsotakis speaks, who is proud of it because as Minister of Administrative Reform he wanted to make redundancies in the public sector and is in favour of mass redundancies and the deregulation of private sector work. Mr Mitsotakis, who at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, told us that he had a plan to reduce taxes, cutting off approximately 2 billion from public hospitals, public schools and abolishing all the social support programmes of the weak, such as this to combat the humanitarian crisis that you have created, which this government brought as a first measure, when everyone - and you first - said it was a unilateral action. That's what you want to abolish! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So here is why your criticism, Mr Mitsotakis, is a criticism that cannot be taken as a place. It's a waste of criticism. Because your so-called alternative programme is redundancies, cutbacks, deregulation and deregulation of the public interest. And our people know that. He knows that because he remembers that you have done this very well over the past few years. What is left to you, then, to convince you that the country has a great need for what you are now calling a political change? So what? To return to power again, despite the fact that within one year, in three successive critical confrontations, two elections and a referendum, the Greek people have declared themselves. They were in front of you all three. The possibility, therefore, to convince that you have an alternative outlet does not even come out with bullets. The dream, your desire, your desire that the economy is falling apart, and that does not come to you, unfortunately, for you, thankfully for the country. So what's left of you? You have one thing left: Cost behind bankrupt publishers and dissatisfied canalarchs who go for the first time - for the first time! - after the transfer from the Treasury. And that's why they're unhappy, and that's why they're launching an unprecedented mud war. Your target here is, I think, obvious. Obviously, you're not struggling to convince that you're not intertwined. That's not working. It is easier to convince us that you have been a prisoner for six months, despite your resignation and those who have ruled for so many years are not intertwined. But what's the target? Watch out. The aim of the New Democracy, which is behind the attack and dirty work that others do for it, is not to convince that it has nothing to do with the conflict New Democracy and the PASOK, of course, but to convince that, "Oh, we are all the same, they're all stained in this place, they've got something." But you know, Mr. Mitsotakis, we're not the same. Today, then, it is time to speak openly in this Chamber. And how do you say that nice slogan of yours? A deal of truth? Yes, sir. So it's time to prove it, Mr. Mitsotakis. It's time you told us some truth. Because today I intend to speak with names and addresses, as we say. Because the system of interlocutory has chosen falsely and slander on your behalf to attempt what? To fill the moral advantage of the Left, the moral advantage of the current government. And this - you know - it's sublime. And then the envy comes the nemesis. So let's see now what the corruption regime and the interlocutory that keeps the place locked up for more than forty years. And look at these here, from this step and in front of all the Greek people who are watching us. Twenty-seven years of immunity and unaccompanied operation of the broadcasting landscape, beyond and outside of any constitutional check. And we come here today and say that it ends this immunity. Really, what do you think the average citizen doesn't understand? You're passing the civilians for fools? 'The ignorant majority', as you once said? Because all of a sudden, you're all out for constitutional order. For twenty-seven years, which you had turned the country's Constitution into a rag, refusing to proceed to a competition for permits, you did not care about the Constitution. And I directly ask, Mr Mitsotakis, and I believe that you are due to an answer: was the Constitution consistent with the continued refusal of your Governments, New Democracy and PASOK, for twenty-seven years to settle the issue of licensing national channels? And why, whatever attempts were made, all the competitions were left in the middle? Why were they canceled? Why were they postponed? Why were they cancelled? Do you have anything to say about that? Do you have any responsibility? I will answer you in advance, to help you in your speech. For the same reason that since the first day you have personally undermined the creation of the National Broadcasting Council from the very beginning and the opening of this competition. For the same reason that you have sabotaged every effort that has been made here to reach a consensus on this issue, which has been started long before you took over, because you did not want and want to regulate the broadcasting system at the place, because you want to keep the journalists hostages and the canalarchs happy, giving them the right to broadcast free of charge on the public spectrum of radio frequencies and thus to all be happy. All of course, apart from the Greek citizens who are deprived of the right to objective and pluralist information, because it has now become apparent to a child of the Municipality that the media are playing according to how the owner plays the bourgeois. This is very clear to the last Greek citizen. But you should know something. We have decided this hostage and this game of both extortion on the other hand will end. For the first time, the media owners are asked to pay what they owe the Greek public and the Greek people. Beyond the 50 million that we have collected all the time, unregulated by your own governments, there has been a competition. A tender that brought EUR 255 million to the public funds, of which 90 million are already in the public funds. And you know, already in their entirety, they are going to be extremely necessary for society at a very difficult financial moment for the country and the economy. So that, ladies and gentlemen, is our difference. Our difference, ladies and gentlemen, is that to the same people you have given air loans and given them free frequencies, while we are passing them through the fund and paying. They pay for the benefit of the Greek State. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] There has been a competition, ladies and gentlemen, which in practice proved to be completely inappropriate, transparent, and with regard to public funds too effective. All the time before some members of your staff went to the channels, to a specific channel in Faliro and said "I know from information, the government will cut off SKAI". And "SCAI" was first licensed. There's never been a fairer competition in the country before. And you know what, because we have something to compare? Your governments recently made the competition for the broadcasting spectrum, a competition - parody with only one to participate, which gave only 18 million, the infamous company 'DIGEA', and took the whole spectrum and we only got 255 million for four channels. However, for DIGEA, we will see them on time. So what you have not done to undermine this process. You've threatened ministers with special courts. You have threatened the civil servants who do their duty, the competition committee, with persecution. You have attempted to create a climate of bullying for judiciary officials. And, of course, you have already discovered - otherwise you would not "tie" the sweet, because the sweet must have and what we said at the beginning, that "it is not us, it is not Nea Democrat and PASOK uninfected, but the others are also infected" - the Syrian canal and the Syrian businessman and the left-wing complex. So, what was this complication? What was the favor we did to the - supposedly - our canal ruler? We treated him in exactly the same way as we acted on the MEGA channel, the 'E' channel and the channel of Mr Karatzafair. Once he fell out of one of the terms of the contest, he was summoned. That was our favor. That was our complication. You gave them free public air and sea loans, and we make them pay, and when they don't, they leave in the next second. To conclude, however, with this issue, Mr Mitsotakis, if you want to know something about this businessman, you should ask your advisor, Mr Theodorikos, because they are partners and partners for years. Don't ask me. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] However, I now come to the promise I made today that we shall speak with names and addresses here. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know of something that I am so happy about from this licensing contest? I am very happy, because in this process all the Greek people have finally found that those who for years have fantasized huge, boulderless, invincible, were nothing but mere businessmen, like everyone else, and they must, like everyone else in this place, observe the law and be accountable to him, because the law is for everyone. And what I was most pleased with, like all the Greek citizens, is that these boulders, the mega-boulevards, were closed for three hours in the dressing room in the General Secretariat of Information and they didn't come out of there because the law had to be observed, and that was the message that was finally given for once since the Cultivation. That this is where the law is being observed! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I don't want to use another expression, that the pimp - how you said it - it's over. Now it's really over. That was the message. The second thing I'm really excited about is what comes out of this notorious committee of inquiry and the loans of parties and the media. You know, it has become the place of your testimony, because one - one - the boulders go there and start talking, saying their opinion and watching the Greek people, because it is broadcast from what I know and the channel of the Parliament. And what skeletons have not been revealed! And what closets they haven't opened! I want to speed up a few things that have been said there by official lips, so that we do not forget. So there it was that Mr. Psykris confessed before the committee that he has received a loan of EUR 15 million, with air guarantees. And when the chairman of the committee asked him 'what exactly did you say, with what guarantees, air?' "I said what I said," he replied. So there's no question left unanswered. Air, ladies and gentlemen. It was in this committee that Mr Bobolas admitted that the banks provided loans to canalarchs without cover and that the "Great Channel", the "MEGA" closes, not because the government is running a tender, but because the shareholders did not want to put their hands in the pocket. Obviously, when the air loan was cut, Mr. Mitsotakis. It was in this committee that Mr Vardinoyannis confessed that the usual practice of lending channels with personal guarantees is a gray practice. He was on the same committee where Mr Alfouzos admitted that the banks were lending beyond all reasonable terms, the television stations, all beyond his own station, of course. And as far as I know, there's always the committee. There'll be others parade. So you come today after everything that's come out in the air, after all that has been said in this committee, to speak of a complication against us in their name? So they themselves will reveal and admit what has happened in the country for so many years and you will be what? Their desperate lawyers, their desperate advocates, as desperate advocates of interlocutory, admit to trying to collect them! And he comes along, of course, with you and Mr. Kontominas, who revealed us on a morning show the day before yesterday, to eat some macaronad - because we have cut off the poor man's pension and he has not eaten - Mr. Kontominas, the person in charge of court proceedings, interrogators and prosecutors for fraud and infidelity against the Greek State, appear there defender of legitimacy and honorer of democracy at the place and send journalists with wigs to New York to charge drinks to the rooms of the Minister of State and even threaten that, as he did in the past, he will also throw SYRIZA - ANEL government. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Listen to something, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy, of the PASOK, of all the wings: I do not know if you have understood my psychology. You think I'll be scared of something like that? Do you think I'll back up? Well, I'm not gonna go back. And you know why I'm not going to go back, and we're not going to back up? Because we don't have any of us in his pocket. I have no commitments to anyone, and I don't account to anyone! And we won't back off no matter how much they threaten us, no matter how much they blackmail us! That's our difference! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And you know why I don't have commitments and we don't have commitments and nobody has us in his pocket? Because no matter how much you look at SYRIZA, you will not find any misery or sea-loving, so you know we're not going to back off. And since I talked about sea loans. You went to set up another construction with the Attica Bank, but it turned you boomerang too. How does our people say so? "You went for wool and you were tied up." You know what? Look for another one. Look, if you want, at all the findings, because there are other bank findings, but SYRIZA's moral automobile for maritime loans you won't find. Whichever sea loan was given by the Agricultural Bank, by the Bank of Attica or by another bank, was given exclusively to your friends and to you, to your own parties. Because if you want to talk specifically about the Attica Bank, I would like to remind you that PASOK and the New Democracy were, on your day, a loan of EUR 13 million from the Attica Bank, and even a loan that is not served today, is not repaid. I also want to remind you who was then the bank's CEO. Mr Manalanis, a man of Mr Samaras's close environment, known for the special mission of 'black' on the ERT screens, but of course also responsible for the recruitment to the Bank of Attica of another known you, Mr Musa - or do you not know him? - the blackmailer's brain. And who is still in charge of the Bank's internal audit of loans today? You saw this in a debate we had last week in the House, where this issue was revealed. So, do you see, ladies and gentlemen, how nice and sweet it all is? You see how this network of interlocutors takes flesh and bones and that it is not just a ghost, but a day-to-day material reality, the matter of interlocutory, which comes from the sacrifices of the Greek people? Because the bank money comes from there. Banks have been recapitalised. The money you've taken with sea loans is money which pays one by one at a sacrifice by the Greek people. And you see now why all these people are playing their change in the third act of the so-called 'parenthood'? Because they see that their network now comes to light, that things are slowly beginning to reveal and start taking the way of justice. However, they still dare to shake our fingers and talk about complexion, from wherever we catch it, whatever stone we lift, we will find traces and evidence - those who are submerged to the neck in the complexion and dark service. So now we have to talk about the issue of seashore in your parties, ladies and gentlemen. We're not gonna let that go. To talk about the outcome of the Kaloudis, but also to remind you of Mr Giannitzis' amendment in 2012, just before the elections, when there was no excuse. Why now are you all saying: 'Okay, what are we going to do? There were the subsidies of the House, which were great, and for thirty years, over forty years, a status quo has been formed, where the two parties were in power with percentages close to 40%. So the banks had assurances that they would get their money back." In 2012, however, there was no justification. Because it had already come the first memorandum, it had come and sat on the back of the Greek people, the grant to Parliament was cut below half, and all the polls showed when we went to the elections that the two sometimes state parties, which received 40%, would, as it turned out, be one in 19% and the other at 12%. And what did you do then? You who have the nerve today to talk about scandals and service, do you owe how much? Do you owe 200 million euros, Mr. Mitsotakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u3	Two hundred ten million euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u4	You owe 210 million euros. You, Mrs. Gennamas, how much? One hundred and eighty-nine million euros in the backs of the Greek people. And does the Greek people wonder, will you return this money back or will you continue to live parasiticly at the expense of the Greek people? And you're finally going to tell us where all this fat-ass million went? Two hundred ten million, 189 million. What are you doing with it? What do you do with the money? Are you going to tell us? Did you eat the money? Where did the money go? And I ask you directly, Mr. Mitsotakis. You took nice pictures that you went to Moschato and welcome your new offices. Is that the resolution? Good for you. You've been reconstructed. Are you going to pay? Will you start paying off even a euro of EUR 210 million that you owe the Greek people, and do you have the nerve to talk about strife? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But, I don't know, it's probably "loan and fierce", as you're used to be "loan and unscrupulous" and your personal loans, to remember "Greek of Chania". I am referring to the EUR 300,000 loan - and in your name, if I am not mistaken - which you do not repay. Question: Will you return it or will it, like the other parties, go to the backs of the Greek people? Talk, finally! Give answers to the Greek people, directly, in front of everyone! But I come to 2012, because I think that was one of the biggest public money scandals. Because, I repeat, 2012 everyone knew that there are no grants and that your parties will not get these percentages. And what did you do to make elections? Through the then Minister of Interior of the Government of Papademos and the well-known Minister and the governments of Mr Simitis, Mr Yannitsi, you have brought a night, as usual, an amendment. And what did this amendment say in April 2012? He said the parties should be given the instalments related to the 2011 money and that of 2012 until April, half of 2012, to the parties to hold elections unaccompanied and irresponsible. So what did New Democracy and PASOK do? When all the others, SYRIZA, Communist Party of Greece, Independent Greeks, Democratic Left, then they all held elections with money from their members' contributions and with little, because they were the percentages then, they enslaved thirty million euros, preventing banks from getting them as a guarantee for the millions you owed. And they did it in one night, with an amendment. That's what you did. And you have the nerve today to come here and talk. What happened in 2012, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the biggest scandals that have occurred in connection with the misuse of public money. Let me remind you of something else, because I now see Mr. Agnace smiling here today. Then Mr. Augias was in another party. She was at Mrs. Bakoyannis' party. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Mrs. Bakoyannis had come and reported this misery at the time. Of course, it was against Mr. Samaras, Mrs. Bakoyannis. But Mr. Mitsotakis voted for it. Remember everything, because we have memory and have recorded what has happened in this place. Thirty million in one night to make elections. Of course, then, Mr Dendia, you were, if I am not mistaken by the rapporteur or by the New Democracy parliamentary representative who with great passion defended this provision, blaming all the others who we used to call for populism as usual. You know, maybe in the language of the defense, in your language the defence of public interest is called populism, while the abuse of public money is high politics and realism. But that kind of realism is missing. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Let's go down there, 'cause he's got it all the time. The elections are held. SYRIZA loses for a few units, and Mr. Samaras comes along with Mr. Venizelos and they collide. And so the New Democracy comes under article 78 of Law 4146/2013 and relieves all responsibility for the offence of their infidelity, the members of the board of directors and the bank executives for the loans they gave abundantly and without guarantees to the two major parties then. And it was just on the basis of this amendment, which the conclusion of the prosecutor Kaloudi, who would initiate the criminal prosecution procedure for for forty-five bank executives and ten and five political persons, including the directors-general both of the New Democracy and of PASOK, was led to the archive once and for all. And you're talking about complication and interference in justice. Look, your works and days don't think that by the media now they will be hidden. The Greek people know them. You are talking about the complexion you should normally have in other circumstances, about all your things having called for an apologies to the Greek people and for you to be withdrawn, the specific persons who had a responsibility for these governments, and for you to renew staff. That's what you should do. But you are the same, the same families, the same person who went bankrupt the country and now you want to go out from above. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I'm coming to you now, Mrs. Gennamas. I don't want to leave you out. Alas. I don't know if you or Mr. Venizelos will answer. Mrs. Gennamas, one thing I want to know. Will you really tell us what happened to these EUR 15 million, which were suddenly discovered last January in the control of the sworn accountants in your party funds? You know what? It seems a little strange to me that you had the luxury to forget about it somewhere, to overlook it somewhere. Sixteen million euros! You didn't have it in your books. You know, I can really forget in some old jacket, no-five, no-de-de-do, no-the-five though, I'm looking for it. When I lose the 50th, I say I lost a 50th. You 16,000,000 euros didn't you get it, Mrs. Gennimata? [[Applause - laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] In any case, it's not a question of whether you got it, it's about what happened with that money. Did you give it to pay back your loans? Did they wings along with the remaining 175,000,000 that you've borrowed? Or have these been confiscated as crime evidence too? But say something, one truth, for the Greek people finally to know. Why, do you know something about it and you? This money is not like the land inherited by the property of one’s grandparents. It's not your legacy that money. It is money that you have borrowed from the banks that the Greek people pays with blood. They belong to the Greek people, and we have to turn them back. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know that Mr Mitsotakis will also come out, Mrs Gennamas will come out and tell us: 'Chipras', 'Digital speech', 'Flying mud in the fan'. It's not about any mud and no fan. All I'm talking about is open documents. It's cases that have finally taken the path of justice. They've been cases that you've been doing for the past few years and you're still doing everything you can to cover them up. Because that has always been your reasoning for justice: covertness, postponement, and finally - intervention. I would like to say a few words about this, because in this recital of hypocrisy you are accusing us of interference with justice. Listen, gentlemen of the New Democracy and of the PASOK: Everyone knows in this country who was picking up phones to guide senior prosecutors and judges. Everyone knows that both parties have been legal offices at times. But this is over today. No case will go to the file with concise procedures and no case will be forgotten. No judges...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u5	In particular, Mr President, you must tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u6	Do you know why, since you're interfering, Mr. Athanasios? Because no judge will feel from now on - and a year and a half now he doesn't feel - over the head the tomacle crack of executive power. That's why justice is breathing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u7	You're telling me, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u8	I've said and I'll say more in particular. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u9	Please be quiet. Careful to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u10	One is the judge's responsibility today: to regain the courage to do his duty with self-determination and independence. I've said it last time. Do you consider that an intervention? It is not an intervention that any honest judge who is to be lifted - and you know, it is not a requirement of the House or of our own, it is a requirement of society, it is a patriotic duty, because at last this place has been charged, the society has been robbed, the economy has been broken up and justice has to be attributed to us next to him, whoever raises a head and says: "I will do my duty with independence and self-determination, as morality defines." That, you know, it's not intervention. Last time in the debate on the conflict a few months ago I tried to explain to you what exactly is an intervention, the innocent amendments, the amnesty and the archiving archives. What we have done and continue to do is our debt. Every case for which we will have suspicions of criminal activity is referred directly and without delay to the competent prosecutors. We did the same with the most famous case of CEDEFOP, this incubator of corruption in the country, and not too distant, recent. And at the moment we have submitted to the prosecutor all the information on the case of CEDEFOP's sinful contracts both with OKANA, where, according to the audits of the competent bodies, it is not possible to determine where the sums of EUR 10 million have been spent on Mr Loverdos's office - I hope that, at some point, it can be identified - as well as the contracts which have been concluded with the advertising companies of known businessmen. Of course, Mr President-in-Office - those of you who have spoken - may have guaranteed your impunity with the help, of course, of Mr Venizelos, who was the instigator of the shameful Article 83 of the Constitution for the non-responsibility of the Ministers...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u11	Article 86.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u12	Article 86, excuse me. But you don't deny that he was an inspiration, as I can see. The number, you've got it! [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] You may, therefore, be granted immunity by the ministers, but in any case, political explanations must be given to the Greek people. I would invite you to give them to Parliament. As we speak of cover-ups, interventions and amnesia, I would like to ask you, Mr Mitsotakis: Last March you again tried to create a climate and impression for alleged interventions by the government in Greek justice. And what did you do? From this point of view, you have had almost all the defence line of the sub-project, Mr. Vageopoulos, to speak with names. Isn't that what we talked about? So I ask you directly: Today, after a criminal prosecution for EUR 200 million to Mr. Vegeopoulos, do you still insist that you represent the defender of this gentleman? So let me say it once and for all: you call intervention in justice the will of this government, which is also an authentic demand for society, to explore in depth all the cases that you have made sure that you cover the drawers of the Ministries and the auditing mechanisms, all the cases that you have done, which you have done, all the things that you have been going through. Because for you, independent justice is'mutual' justice. It is for us independent justice that investigates and renders the law everywhere, as high as those who are being investigated. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But didn't you do the same with the cases of tax evasion? You hid the lists in the drawers and only when under the pressure of the popular outcry you had to hand them over to justice, once again as advocates of defending your tax fugitive friends. And after you strongly argue in favour of the allegedly illegal use of the lists, the famous skates and lists by the tax and public prosecutors - because that is what you said, that it is unconstitutional and illegal - and when we have closed this issue with our own amendment in the House, you have again come to speak of a violation of the Constitution again, that is, you have attempted to turn the Constitution into a weapon of oligarchs and tax collectors. Perhaps you did this because you knew who was hiding inside the lists, as proved by the involvement of the official of the previous government, a science friend of Mr Samaras, but also yours, it seems, Mr Papastavrous, who is involved in a large tax evasion case. Indeed, it is a question: Okay, Mr. Vegeopoulos, you are defending him. You defended Mr. Papastavrous as well. Why did you make him responsible for the development plan of the New Democracy? Did you not know that man has been the head of UBS in Greece for many years, the bank that is currently being controlled to build an enlarged tax evasion support network? The bank that has been shown to have been engaged in such practices in a number of countries and has been called upon to pay huge fines, both in Europe and in America? But, rather, that kind of growth will bring you. Development with tax evasion orgasm. Ladies and gentlemen, it makes no sense to multiply the references. What makes sense is to say in relation to the issues of tax evasion that the party has finished and that they are now inspected and accounted for and paid for by those who have hidden money. The lists of tax evasion are now being used to the full. While the assurances from the lists from 2013 to 2014 were only EUR 26.6 million, with our own government and within a year and a half they have reached EUR 900 million. And the race goes on. On this occasion, I would like to inform the House that only ten days ago, the Greek authorities received a new list from the authorities in Rhineland-Westphalia, from Mr Borgians' Ministry, with four hundred seventy-five large depositors in a central European bank. And you know what the interest in this new list is? These are elements of 2010, that is, a year that no one can speak of forfeiting offences. And that list has already been delivered where we need, not in our drawers, but in the public prosecutors for the necessary actions. This is another great success, and we will give all possible assistance to the prosecution and control authorities for the full identification and exploitation of this list as well. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close - my first speech will be closed, do not be happy! - from the following: I think there is no Greek citizen who has not realised that a great war is taking place in this place. On the one hand, the forces of interlocutory, corruption, tax evasion, who looted the economy and society, went bankrupt the country, trying rampantly to rectify the old political system, to return to the practices of the client state, services, illegality and extortion. On the other hand, there are healthy forces in society. And with these healthy powers it wants to be the government, which despite the limitations, despite the chaos that created forty years of corrosion and decline of every institution at home, all morals and all values, we are trying to put a order in this place. I think every Greek citizen knows that this may be the only chance for our country. Even those who disagree vertically with us know that we are the only ones who can put a bit of a stone in it and make it. That we are the last hope to clear the place from the vagina. Why, Mr Mitsotakis, in the previous day's debate in Parliament you spoke from this step by saying that each of us is his own experiences. And I'll agree with you. You said that I am a 'child of Occupations'. And indeed, you're right. These are my experiences, experiences of collective struggles. They are permanent battle experiences for a society of equality, freedom, justice. You didn't tell us what your experiences were. Because when I was in the conquests, which you think have broken up, paralyzed and destroyed the country, then you were starting your political steps. And you started them under the close assistance of Mr Christoforikos and the financial assistance of SIEMENS. That's the truth, Mr. Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You're talking about a deal of truth here. So I urge you to come here at the Step of the House as soon as I come down and restore this truth. If I, Mr Mitsotakis, am a child of conquests - which I really am - you - know all about Greece - you are a child of "SIEMENS" and of interlocutory! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I want, Mr. Mitsotakis - to finish - one thing. Go up to this Step and answer a single question. I think you owe an answer not to me, but to the Greek people. Now that I come down, get up here and answer us a single question: is there a 'SIEMENS' scandal in the country, yes or no, Mr Mitsotakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u13	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being informed about the history of the building and the way this House organises and operates, twenty students and students, as well as three attendants of teachers from the Municipal School of Moresi - Xurichio - Tsagarada "Nannopoulio" Magnesia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Chief of Staff and Chairman of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, as I listened to Mr Tsipras, immersed in the irritation and arrogance of a malicious theatrical performance, I remembered a phrase by Constantine Karamanlis: "Democracy is at risk from those who invoke it most." It is at risk from them, Mr Tsipras, who, invoking the good of the people, undermine democratic institutions. It is at stake by those who, in the name of the so-called rupture with the old, reproduce the worst habits of postmopulation. It is at stake by those who, while claiming to be every word of the Constitution, are brutally destroying it and at every opportunity. It is at stake by those who, while in this Chamber, have sworn faith in the laws, violate the rule of law and express authoritarianism. It is at stake by those who, instead of today join the citizens in a great ethnic conflict, divide society into a desperate attempt to restrain their powers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u15	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u16	Those who have listened to you today, Mr Tsipras - and I hope many have listened to you - have come to an unscrupulous conclusion: it is not worthy of our country to be its Prime Minister! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Not only because you have broken up the economy and made the Greeks even poorer, not only because you deprive our compatriots of every trace of dignity, not only because your arrogance is insulting you even to your former supporters, but because you undermine the democratic conquests of a people who have fought to make Greece a rule of law, Mr Tsipras! You've risen into power in a crescendo of populism and fall into a mudshadow! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And today you are still insisting on poisoning public dialogue with lies, theories of conspiracy and vulgar populism. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is certain: the shorter the SYRIZA will grow. Mr. Tsipras, you have already failed. You're already defeated. You know that. That's why you react like that. In each of your speeches, you speed up your political ending. In the conscience of the Greek people you are already in the past, black, dark, sad past. The history of the future, Mr Tsipras, will be very strict with you, because all the governments of post-multiple, despite their mistakes, despite their omissions, left behind, Mr Tsipras, a positive mark. I wonder: What will you leave behind when you abandon power? The third, unnecessarily memorable memorial? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You'll hear it now! The pension cuts and the CSCE? The abundance of the state by the "Caranish"? The collapse of every sense of honesty in education? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Or are you trying to establish a new system of interacting, which we will be talking about in detail next? But one is your important historical contribution: the Greek people will never believe again a ruthless populist who has deceived the Greeks and whose only concern is to stay in power at any cost. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I was listening to you today and wondered, as I have wondered many times: Is it the idealism that gives rise to incapacity, Mr Tsipras, or the inability that is shielded behind the idealism? But whatever the explanation is, you have already done a great deal of harm to the country. Your personal failure, Mr Tsipras, must not be a failure of Greece. Greece is much better than you, and that is why you need to leave an hour earlier, not only to get rid of the most incompetent and ideological government that the place has ever known from post-policy, but to return, finally, to this place, Mr. Tsipras, regularity, to restore the injured values of freedom and solidarity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u17	Please, be quiet! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u18	To shield the structure of our urban democracy and finally make all Greeks united a great leap in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, all citizens know that as soon as a joke, Mr Tsipras, it is the 'ethical advantage of the Left'. On this very myth you have built your own divisive speech, you have built the movement of "Indignant", you have presented all the old system as corrupt, yourself as the white knights of the cleansing. Some people believed you. Maybe not unjustified. But they did not want to see the reality, that you do not represent the new, but the worst mutation of the old, Mr Tsipras. From the very first moment you were a'sarx of the flesh' of media populism, which has for years been dominated by the media in our country, killing characters and recycled cheap conspiracy theories. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] You'll hear them! Wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, just a minute. You're very welcome. Please, don't exterminate yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u20	I have a question: Mr. Tsipras, the same instruments that you characterize as pirates, have not given you an electorally convenient step forward in order to express your views? You referred to a series of publishers and canalarchs. Correct me, Mr. Tsipras, did you not meet with a cat? Who are you finally kidding? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You referred to Mr. Neartennas too, if I'm not mistaken. Tell me, what exactly does Mr. Lazopoulou work, Mr. Tsipras? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Why now all of a sudden did Mr. Neighbors make you unpleasant? Why didn't you tell us all this in the election? So stop mocking me, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u21	I, too, have worked on ALPHA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u22	Please, Mr. Darkness! Please listen carefully! Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u23	You mind the truth!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u24	Please! Please! Here you go, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, in relocation, which you so easily criticise, you have proved to be a key shareholder of its worst features. You have never stood up, Mr. Tsipras, against the appointments and clientele logics and, of course, with great ease, you have hosted the SYRIZA ranks the worst part of the old party mechanism, what former comrades call you "subscribing" of the party mechanism. The atrocities of the rotten political system are today your most enthusiastic supporters, Mr. Tsipras! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Chohazopoulou's orphans found to you their stepfather! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, Koutsogiger's lawyer found to you his new employer. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Kokotas - Tsipras: a Manjuran road! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So you will not move the finger on this side, which, Mr Tsipras, was fought by the media. Let's make a little historical account. Over the past twenty-three years, New Democracy has ruled the place of almost eight, five and a half in Prime Minister Kostas Karamanlis - self-powered government at that time, the New Democracy - whose struggle against interlocutory is known and I imagine you will not question it either. If you question him, go out and tell him. Then go out and say it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] He ruled for two and a half years and led by Antonis Samaras, Prime Minister of the Tripartite Government, in which he participated and your pending Minister, Mr. Kouvelis. It was a government that did everything to keep the country in the Eurozone. So what do you have to say exactly, Mr. Tsipras? I have heard you again mention the subject of 'SIEMENS'. I'm really sorry that you're twisting reality like this. But I have to ask you a number of questions on the subject of 'SIEMENS', Mr Tsipras. How does it seem to you that for your own days foreign indictments may be forfeited due to the delay in a translation? [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In any case, two years, Mr Tsipras, which you are in the government, why have you not promoted the abolition of the extrajudicial compromise, which you have characterised as illegal, since, in any case, you do not apply and damage the public from its non-implementation? Why don't you remove him? Last March, in this Chamber, you announced that you were launching a renegotiation with the 'SIEMENS'. You have also spoken about the setting-up of a committee. What about this case? So stop, Mr. Tsipras, throw mud into the fan. If you don't like this arrangement, here you change it and promise that you can negotiate a better one. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that you have never been interested in exulting a system that was really ill, because today you are playing with the very same rules of a system that you were accustomed to, but you have made secret transactions with him and all you were interested in today is in controlling this system and creating your own left-wing argument. After all, Mr Tsipras has admitted to them cynically, your MEP, Mr Culloglou, confessed. What did he say in an interview with a radio station a few weeks ago? "Of course it is the government's duty to have some friendly media. When the government has all the means against it, when a new broadcasting landscape is being built, it wants to have some kind of friendly approach.” [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That's what Mr. Kouloglu says and I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned interview, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the previous debate in this Chamber on corruption and complexity, we simply had, Mr Tsipras, suspicions of your plan. Now we have proof. The case of the competition - fiasco for television licences will be taught for many years in universities as a model of interactiveity! What was your target? But, of course, the control of the broadcasting landscape. The SYRIZA - ANEL government needed some kind of political support in the media, so that it could overthrow its lies and hide its enormous failure. And, in order to manipulate the means, we had, on the one hand, to control the landscape in the government and, on the other, to limit the number of television licences in Greece so that at least some canals who are convenient to the government can be chosen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u26	Who are they?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u27	You didn't tell us who they are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u28	You'll hear them. Don't be in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u29	Please! Be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Tsipras spoke fifty-three minutes. I'll talk so much. I have too much to say, after all. Because, Mr. Tsipras, once again you lied, at our first meeting at the Maximos Mansion, I suggested a very simple solution. Restore responsibilities in the ERC and we will proceed together in the appointment of its members. I have made a single self-evident condition, to observe the Constitution, Mr Tsipras! Mr Papapas cannot replace the role of the PSE once the Constitution has entrusted to it the licensing and supervision of broadcasting. If you agreed at that time, Mr Tsipras - at your first meeting I said this - we would have proceeded with the formation of the PSE and you would not have been exposed irreparably, indicating your authoritarian face. But you didn't want these. You wanted the PSE to have no reason to issue licences to mark the deck as it suits you. And of course you went ahead with your plan. What was that? arbitrary restriction on the number of national television licences to four. What do you do in other words? You created an artificial oligopoly in the name of so-called transparency and raised the right to information on the subject of a auction. I will come back to this matter, because it is major. Even though not all of the scientific community - all of it! - he said that the contest was unconstitutional, you proceeded, without waiting for the Supreme Court's ruling, a decision which you have prompted - and I will come back - in a way that goes unequivocally, by taking direct action in the independence of justice, which you have allegedly defended today. Of course, in this procedure you seem to have chosen your own canalarch beforehand. Is it the same one who enthusiastically applauded Mr. Pappas at the SYRIZA election meeting, on the subject - what else? - the complication! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Here begins, Mr Tsipras, a number of irresponsible questions to which either you or the 'Canary' Minister will have to answer. So to get them in turn. Why, ladies and gentlemen, did the Protocol of the General Secretariat remain open beyond the time limit until Mr Kalogritsa deposited his guarantee letter? What exactly did this committee do? And how is it possible for a man, Mr. Tsipras, to produce loan pastures as evidence of his assets and to accept them by the committee? Why did the audit company 'GRANT THORNTON', Mr Pappa, never validate the control of 'whereabouts'? And why, until the last minute, from these benches, did the Minister for the Commonwealth feel the need to defend his favourite successful tenderer? Even the real estate agent Ithaca did to prove us the great value of the pastures. What exactly is Mr. Kalogritsa's relationship with the Bank of Attica? How is it possible for a medium-sized construction company to tenfold, Mr. Tsipras, its credit line within a few months? What criteria have these loans finally been given? Who approved them, in violation of all good banking practice, as confirmed by the Greek Bank of Greece's conclusion?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u31	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u32	What are Mr. Spirtzi's real relationships with Mr. Kalogritsa? How exactly - to explain this - have they broken a series of large public works into smaller pieces, to end up, Mr Spirtzi, to your favourite best man - contractor? And what are Mr Spirtzi's relationships with the Attica Bank? Did you see how everything, in a magical way, is connected? Was it Mr. Spirtzis or not for many years the real power in the Bank of Attica, which you would like to turn into a personal grouper?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u33	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u34	It was Manalonis!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Femelle, Mr. Balaura, you're forcing me to speak personally. Don't go on! You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u36	I understand your irritation. You have great difficulty answering all these questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u37	The loans you took, not SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Lappa, do you continue with the three colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Mitsotakis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u39	Finally, does it make sense to you that the first complication, which took Mr Kalogerica's place, has publicly stated that he was a lad and has submitted zero tenders at the last stage of the competition? So, Mr Tsipras is very simple and the Greek citizens also know that, because this question has been asked to the Greek citizens, what your real intentions are. You tried to set up a convenient new intercom triangle, to fund "SYRIZA Channel" with the Attica Bank money, as if it were "SYRIZA bank", and when the details of the disgusting construction were revealed, you did back rapidly. You didn't rule out Mr. Tsipras, you Mr. Kalogrisa. The revelations and control of Reach have absolved your own plans! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you have the courage to come to the House and ask for the change while you should be ashamed! Shame on you! [[Vibrant applause from the New Democracy Wing]] He's gone, he says, the next second. Let the revelations not have occurred, let me tell you if Mr. Kallagris was going to leave! The greatest proof of the size of the scandal is that even today you have refused to bring the "subjects" of the successful ones to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. I urge you again, Mr Tsipras: bring them now! Make a commitment, when you speak again, to present them to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. If you do not, it will be the ultimate act of guilt, both yours and your Minister. Even today, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras returns to the matter of honour to justify the unacceptable methods of his government. So, Mr Tsipras, I would like to ask you three questions on this matter: Firstly, because you keep insisting on the price of EUR 256 million. Tell me, Mr Tsipras, how much money will the government, the state, that is to say, at the end of taxes, employers' contributions from the channels in which it intends to drop 'black'? So I will answer you: it is EUR 1.7 billion over the decade. It's a BSE investigation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u40	How much did you get? How much did you get?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u41	And you still insist on celebrating for the 256 million!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u42	Please! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u43	Secondly, Mr Tsipras, and even more important question, be careful with a little, is what I will ask you - is this: Why didn't you choose, Mr. Tsipras, to collect the same amount, a similar amount, from more candidates? Why have you not attempted and protected in this way and pluralism and pluralism, goods that are constitutionally regulated? Thirdly and more importantly: does it ultimately matter, ladies and gentlemen, the origin of the money paid for television licences? No, they claim a number of colleagues if I can interpret their formats correctly. Or is the only thing that separates, Mr. Tsipras, a candidate canalarch from an license is his wallet, as Mr. Poppas told us? So, to understand, if a smuggler came in and gave you 200 million euros, would you take them? Would you give him a channel, Mr. Tsipras? Just answer me, please. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] In our view, the public asset cannot be auctioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u44	You implying someone, Mr. Mitsotakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u45	Is there something wrong with you, Mr. Tsipras? Has it not bothered you that someone who can come and pay an excessive price - according to market data - to get a licence, will perhaps look at it back in another way, redeeming the political influence that a channel allows him to exercise? [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Does the 'first time on the left' mean pluralism and information, Mr Tsipras? Is that how you hit the truce and corruption? I'd like to say one more thing, so I don't forget. Because I saw some relevant articles, don't think, Mr. Tsipras, get another law covering the sins of the Pappa law. Don't try to cover up a scandal with a bigger scandal. The Pappa Law has already been annulled in the citizen's consciousness... [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] ...and very soon, the next government, the New Democracy, will cancel him in practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u46	Dear Mr. Panjah, please. Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u47	It will return its broadcasting landscape control powers to the National Broadcasting Council, as defined in the Constitution. It will restore, Mr Tsipras, pluralism and competition, liberalising the number of licences, and protecting the public interest, setting strict criteria for licensing and high quality standards for channels. Ladies and gentlemen, the case of television licences is morally stigmatizing your Government. Unfortunately, however, it also has significant side effects and the most important of them, Mr Tsipras, is related to the functioning of justice. In a favoured state, Mr. Tsipras, this competition would never have taken place before being judged by the S.H.E.L.D. the constitutionality of the Pappa law. Not only did you not expect the decision of justice, but you have rushed and paid it, not only with your intention of organising the competition but also with the statement you made at the IGC on 11 September. So I want to repeat it. You said, "And now that the public interest has been captured in figures, the S.H.E. will come out. And he's gonna say he's void? These things can't be done. I do not give a chance.’ That is what you said, Mr Tsipras. You have committed a maximum amount of institutional damage. You sought to put the judges ahead of us, and this intervention, unfortunately, led to a black day for justice. On Friday, September 30th, the President of the S.H.E. issued the following statement: ‘According to the climate which has been attempting to develop over the last few days, the President of the Council of State considered that the conference scheduled for today on these matters should be cancelled’. Be careful, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL. In no democratically supported state and for no reason is the function of the Supreme Court canceled! Not even a junta! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because this is how the core of the rule of law is brutally affected, which is a precondition for the functioning of all democratic institutions! The Supreme Court, Mr. Tsipras, is not affected by the current situation. Its purpose is to control the actions of the administration, to implement the law and not to interpret public opinion. The Council of State has tried in recent years, with very large social tensions, a series of major cases - from the constitutionality of the memoranda to the investment in Skouria - and was the institutional guarantor of the rule of law, the final judge of the decisions of the executive. This role cannot under any circumstances be called into question. I would therefore call for this rejection to be corrected as soon as possible. The court has to resolve the issue of the unconstitutionality of the Pappa law, without any time-lag. Society, the Athens Bar Association, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors and the legal world also reacted to the meeting - a challenge which you had, Mr Tsipras, with the presidents of the highest courts, but also the statement by the President of the Council of State that the duty of judges is to catch the pulse of society. Well, the duty of judges is not to catch a pulse of society, but to apply the law! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You know, Mr Tsipras, perhaps all of this, because of your education, is a little foreign to you, I understand, but the rule of law by definition must protect the rights of minorities from possible anti-democratic excesses of the majority. That is why the pulse of society, Mr Tsipras, cannot in any case be a criterion for a judicial decision. Any other interpretation is dangerous, not just for justice, but for democracy itself. In 1929, Constantine Rakkivan, the first President of the Council of State, stated in his opening speech and referring to the purpose of the new institution created by Eleftherios Venizelos, said: "Let us become the sovereign state of law or state of law, especially as far as the administration is concerned." Today, the most incompetent, most ideological government the place has known since Postpopulation systematically undermines this conquest of modern Greece! We warn you, Mr Tsipras, the New Democracy, the great democratic, centre-right, liberal party, will raise an impediment to democracy in your authoritarian plans! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You know what, Mr. Tsipras? We are not alone, we are many, too, in this Chamber, but in society, because the vast majority of citizens have understood your intentions and are faced with your droughts and do not tolerate other games with institutions and will not allow a diversion. You will not make Greece a "Venezuela" of Europe. We will be against your plans, we will be across Parliament, we will be across society, we will be across Parliament in the battles that we are fighting all over the country! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But, Mr Tsipras, unfortunately, when we talk about corruption and interactive issues, it is not just the case of television licences that pursues you. You talked about lists: Borgians, Lagard. You also have your own list, the "Chipras list", which plunges the country into the dark of opacity and interlocutory. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Keep notes now, Mr. Tsipras, because you will have to answer. I would point out, for example, that the NGO pamphlet in mental health centres, the non-transparent management of refugee funds. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Did you really not feel any need to investigate the complaints made by the outgoing Secretary-General, Mr Buddour, about commissions under pressure at disproportionately high contract cost? Not one comment or one response to these heavy complaints? Didn't you hear them? I imagine that now that you've been informed, I'll wait for your answer. I continue: The way you covered Mr. Flamouraris and Mr. Stathakis' "subjects". You put it all under the rug. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The contractors of Mr Katrugalos, known as the 'principal 12%', the legalisation of the return of the jurors and, of course, the change in the composition of the disciplinary boards, to participate again in trade unionists, the dismantling of 'HUMAN' by means of an amendment, which introduced many exceptions to the basic and fundamental principle, that the entry into force of administrative acts is equivalent to the date of their suspension, the adoption of a scandalous provision for offshores, which you have taken back in the face of public outrage, the intervention of the independent authorities by means of a photographic imposition of an age limit on all its members, the scandalous reduction in fines for tax evasion, the removal of the Director of the CIFFO without any explanation, the sudden replacement of the Chief Prosecutor for economic crime, and the disguise of workers from former Venezuelan women. You even started it, Mr. Tsipras! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, the countless...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u48	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u49	Why is it so bothering? You must be sensitive to women's rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u50	You were government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Balaura, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, it was a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u53	Please don't say. Think. Don't think too much. Go on, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u54	...of course, the countless appointments of relatives and friends to the public. Some appreciated over twenty - seven thousand. Mr Tsipras, look out, I told you in the previous debate that corruption is not just the dispersal of public money. The corruption of consciences, Mr. Tsipras, is the worst form of corruption. The flattery of moderate is the worst form of corruption. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, will you manage to impose a little order on the Members of the government?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u55	And a little too much. All right, we're making every effort. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u56	The identification, Mr Tsipras, of the personal interests of some citizens with the fate of your regime is the worst form of corruption. There is no bill that has come to this Chamber in which you have not infiltrated any routine arrangements for the settlement of your parties and friends. None, Mr. Tsipras. Every time that happens. Isn't that corruption? Isn't that a smash of public money? It's another kind of corruption. It's a corruption that's wearing a political cloak. It often passes, Mr. Tsipras, under the prosecutor's radar, but its origin is always the same and is the underground of Maximus. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very afraid that the more social and political data are changing to the worst, the more morbid your perception of power and institutions will become. You know well that society has turned your back. Nine out of ten citizens believe that because of you in the country, things will go worse. The government that would give the thirteenth pension cuts the ESS and the subsidiary and sprays with tear gas of the pensioner.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u57	Turn back the loans, give the CSCE.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u58	Ms. Baja, please don't force me to call you to class. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u59	The government that was shouting, Mr. Tsipras, 'no house in the hands of a banker', now facilitates first home auctions, even for small public debts. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The government that would abolish the ENPI is horizontally increasing taxes and undermining any prospect of recovery of the economy. And, of course, the government, who often protested against tears against privatisation, gave the excess total of the public property for ninety years. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The government that was born into lies and populism fades into despair and outcry. Never in the history of post-population was there such an obvious discrepancy between a parliamentary majority and a popular will. You've failed everywhere, Mr. Tsipras. You are a collapsed government, unable to deal with problems, which, mostly, either created itself or aggravated. And that is the final purpose of today's debate, another exercise of disorientation from the great problems of Greek society. But, you know what? Your screams and your voices are hollow. And your attempt to change the agenda and move it into the field of institutions, and it conceals purposes. Last week, Mr Tsipras, again a question of constitutional revision and you announced the setting up of a committee, a committee in which no constitutionalist is involved and no one has understood its purpose. You, who, as you have said to us - if I remember correctly - are you every word of the Constitution, do you not know, Mr Tsipras, that the process of constitutional revision is the exclusive privilege of Parliament? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You don't know that, Mr. Tsipras? The House! And not the government, because you tend to confuse them. As you remember, in my first visit to your office as the newly elected Chief of Reconciliation, I had first raised the issue of Constitutional Review and asked for consultation, to go together, to agree together on a wide range of revised articles so that the next House, with a simple majority, can formulate the new Constitution. And the risk, Mr Tsipras, of the next elections not only relates to the next government, but also to the form of the Charter itself. You have naturally rejected this proposal. Instead of starting the procedure in the House by setting up the committee concerned, you are organizing popular assemblies and once again undermining your institutional obligations to satisfy on-line, micro-party purposes. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely regret the Prime Minister's tone in his first place, but also the fact that the toxic environment, which the government itself has created, does not allow us today to have a substantial debate on the real problem of corruption and of the conflict in the country, a problem that is at the heart of the crisis of confidence that is afflicting the political system.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u60	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u61	Nine months ago four hundred five thousand citizens came into an open electoral process and elected me as President of the New Democracy. My candidacy was not supported either by the media or by the paradox of power. It was based on the Greek women and Greeks who trusted me to operate autonomously, referring only to them. Don't mock this process. I didn't get a ring from Mr. Alavanos, like Mr. Tsipras. I was elected. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] From the very beginning I have been sincerely self-criticizing about any mistakes that we have made and have committed myself to pulling a line with the past. Yes, Mr. Tsipras, we have housed our party's finances and we are proud of it. We are now relying on small grants, with absolute transparency and our purpose is the entire state grant, not 60%, as the law stipulates, to be directed towards repayment of our loans - because we are paying back our loans - and to cover all our operating expenditure on loans. And that's what we're gonna do. And we will honour the confidence of the Greek people. Of course, Mr Tsipras, we do not, you see, and the privilege of having in our service party newspapers, which, by magic, are increasingly receiving state funding and which also have offshore in their share capital. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And answer sometime who hides behind the offshore of the newspaper "THEY". In fact, very interesting conclusions have been drawn from this committee of inquiry. However, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of corruption and interlocutory is very complex and goes beyond how the political system is financed. Yes, the country needs a comprehensive strategy to combat corruption and interlocutory, which will go beyond the convenient over-simplifications that we have heard today and the witch hunt, which is a great specialty of the government. With such a strategy, ladies and gentlemen, it would first of all recognise that the institutional framework within which we operate often encourages minor invasion and corruption. When the state, for example, introduces objective values that are out of place and time, or when town and tax provisions are so daunty, what message do we send to the citizens? In simple terms, we need a new agreement of truth, and in our relationship with this state, an agreement of truth, which will recognise, ladies and gentlemen, that the state is not our opponent. The state is the same. Now we've all seen the truth and we all know it. We have faced the spectrum of the upcoming disaster and we know that any smuggling behaviour not only affects our neighbor, it is not someone smart and the other sucker, but it is destroying all of us and our children. Because when we talk about complexity and corruption, we cannot leave large businesses out, we also need a new beginning in the relationship between the state and the business community. The model of state-owned capitalism went bankrupt. Only you, Mr. Tsipras, have remained his supporter. The state must do its job. Who's that? To lay down rules and ensure healthy competition, through strong independent authorities, which, of course, you are undermining. Businesses should also do their own job, which is of course to claim the profit. This is the purpose of every business, but by keeping the law and not by entering into transactions with the government. Ladies and gentlemen, today more than ever the country needs a coherent strategy to combat corruption. Such a strategy should include, inter alia, the following priorities: Firstly and most importantly, strengthening and supporting the work of judiciary officials in the fight against corruption and interlocutory, but with the support of appropriate tools, skills and support structures. The stage of the proceedings, during which cases are created and evidence is collected, is particularly important. We all know that today judicial officers do not have the national capacity and support to be able to deal with this procedure with the necessary efficiency. Secondly, we need to create an integrated and efficient internal and external control system, based on international standards and practices, and finally to remove all overlap with the existing control mechanism, which create a demonstrable framework, without any substantial efficiency. Thirdly, we need to link the mission and action of public bodies with specific objectives, because only if there are objectives can the principle of transparency and integrity be served. Fourthly, we must move on, as we have begun to do, to a radical simplification of all administrative procedures, using technology, with a central objective: to limit the physical communication of citizens and businesses with state officials, to make this communication as impersonally as possible. Fifthly, we must insist on an ongoing assessment of public officials and moral values and on the exercise - as well as on recruitment - of tasks. Sixthly, we must insist - and unfortunately there you have taken many steps in the wrong direction - on ensuring the impartiality, transparency and efficiency of the disciplinary procedure for officials and officials of the public administration involved in cases of fraud and corruption. Seventhly, we must finally move on to the full electronisation of the system of declarations 'from under' economic interests, focusing on the high-risk categories, and these statements, first the Members' declarations, are available on the Internet historically, so that they can truly prove, Mr Tsipras and ladies and gentlemen, who has enriched and not politics. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Eighth, to create effective tools so that we can tackle the conflicts of interest in the exercise of public power in their hearts. Ninth, to improve, Mr Tsipras, the institutional framework for the transparency and funding of the parties. We took the first steps on our own. Do it, too, Mr. Tsipras. Do it, too. You, too, proceed to the resolution of your own finances. Tenthly, to create a favourable framework for companies that do not choose to participate in fraud and corruption regimes and which choose to give information to the authorities on these cases. Eleventh, to take a series of initiatives with the private sector, with professional organisations, finally to highlight the negative impact of corruption on the entire range of public life. And, twelfth and more importantly, to strengthen civil society itself, non-governmental organisations, the media, with a demand for transparency and accountability and a conscious effort to train the young generation, in particular, to finally have a zero tolerance to corruption culture and to know the true impact of corruption on social prosperity and cohesion. It must finally cease to be regarded as a man and a smart person who has found a way to either illegally enrich from the public or not to pay his taxes, whoever has found a way to circumvent the safety margins, to exploit the weaknesses of the control system and to speculate at the expense of the social system as a whole. The Greek society, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of any squabbles in this Chamber, can no longer carry this burden. The voices of distrust and questioning are deafening and concern to everyone. "Everyone gets it, nothing is done without mitigating and oiling," society says today. This image unfairs the majority of civil servants who are professionals and who are honestly carrying out their duties, as is wrong for healthy professionals in the private sector. We are determined that the anti-corruption plan, not only of the great, but of the middle and small, should be put into practice and fight corruption, no matter how high it comes and whatever its economic and social roots are. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close with this remark: today's debate confirmed that the government has absolutely no plan and no intention of dealing with the problem of corruption and the conflict. I have not heard a single positive proposal from the Prime Minister in this direction. The opposite happens. Builds methodically a new complication, so she'll be pleasurable. But it's not just enough there. It undermines the independence of justice, which you are still dealing with as a tool, questioning the rule of law itself, ultimately undermines the quality of our democracy. And that cannot be tolerated anymore. The country cannot afford, Mr Tsipras, to add to the deep economic crisis and a crisis of democracy. And this design of yours will be overturned, no matter how drunk it is. There are judges in Athens, there are citizens in Greece, there are institutions in Europe and the day the diversion you are attempting will fall into the void along with your own Government. Mr Tsipras, I am making the following point. When, following our request for this debate today, you have taken the floor, you have answered that the requests are sometimes accepted. So since you are so sure of yourself and you like to play games, accept our next request: Proclaim elections, Mr Tsipras! Come if you dare! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] Come if you dare! Give the Greek people, who are suffocating from your policy, to express themselves, to put an end to today's catastrophe. Because after what we have heard today, ladies and gentlemen, one is clear: the political, economic and institutional correction of the country passes through the electoral, ideological and moral defeat of the SYRIZA. And you can't avoid that, Mr. Tsipras, just postpone it. And the later, the worse for you, but the worse for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u62	Will you tell us about "SIEMENS"?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u63	I answered, but you didn't hear me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and two educational sessions from the 12th General High School of Patras (A' Department). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, because, in speeches by the parties' Heads of State or Government, we are talking about colleagues, ministers or Members of the other Party, to inform the other party that the speech will not be given directly on staff. In the course of the debate, however, and since during the course of the debate, after the Council's secondary and secondary speeches and interventions, there are still unambiguous gaps, there will be a reason for one minute for some colleagues who have mentioned their name, in order to make a public statement, a reason for which their name has been mentioned. Otherwise we would go into a different procedure, which would change the climate of the debate. Please, the President of the People's Association Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, has the floor for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, we have listened carefully to the Prime Minister's two-hour controversy with the President of the Civilian opposition. However, we have not heard a word about what is the essence of corruption and of the interlocutory nature of parliamentary regimes, as is the status of the country. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] At this point I shall read out a text of a Middle War politician, which then refers to the newspapers, which were the main media, and not of course the television stations, which are today, around which all the debates were held. Pimps were the whole story and whether or not we'll have pimps in the future. However, I shall refer to this next comment and comment on what Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis said. But before that, I will read a text to you: 'This democracy is the child of capitalism. It is the instrument by which capitalism dominates the popular mass. It is the instrument whereby capitalism manages to represent its will as a people's will. This kind of democracy needs universal secret elections, so organised parties and therefore big funds. For the same reason, it takes newspapers, so much capital and so many others that require funds. Therefore, only the holders of big capital or their organs can do such games. When no one has the newspapers, then they form public opinion as they wish.' That's what a Messopian politician, who might think he's left, but he's not. I will tell you how his text concludes: "On the other hand, capitalism, in order to accumulate the funds in the hands they represent him and make all his other world slaves, but slaves who think they are free, needs the free economy and the state's limitation of any intervention in the economy," see privatisations. You'll probably believe that a marxist, a left man, said that. Oh, no. This has been written by Ioannis Metaxas and they are indeed fully confirmed within the interlocutory regime in which our country has been living for over forty years. Mr Tsipras spoke and addressed Mr Mitsotakis said about the sea-loans which were given to 'logues' and mentioned many cases. On the other hand, and Mr Mitsotakis said about the loans received by businessman Mr. Kalogritsas, a contender of one of the four television licences, and Prime Minister Tsipras objected that these were given by the intervention of the CEO of the Agricultural Bank, Mr. Manalis, who was indeed appointed by the environment Samaras and, in particular, the'star' himself, of the honesty of Papastavourou, had called for the appointment of Mr. Manalis. The question that arises is as follows: You are ruling twenty-one months. Why did you let these same people do their game at the banks and you couldn't control things? In any case, we will return to the Kalogrisa case by speaking about the channels. Seventy - seven million took SYRIZA for days, fifty million took for days in New Democracy - PASOK, namely during the days of the Samara and Venizelos government. Therefore, the issue is not qualitative, it is quantitative. You both borrowed Mr. Kalogritsa with bail on the pastures of Ithaca. You both harm the nation itself, home, and so are you both away from what could be understood as true justice and transparency in this place. The Prime Minister said we were in recovery. We see the recovery with more than twenty-five percent of the Greek people in poverty! We will see this in the next few weeks and in the next few months with the auctions that the "brows" will do in first homes and which have already begun. The recovery is therefore only in the imagination of the Prime Minister and SYRIZA officials. He's not in society. Unemployment is thawing, the economic crisis is getting worse and worse. "You have responsibility for what is happening," said Mr. Tsipras, addressing Mr. Mitsotakis. And you, twenty-one months that you've been ruling, what else did you do? The same policy is being followed by the policy of the memoranda. If New Democracy and PASOK have responsibilities, which they certainly have, you have too, because for twenty months you have been ruling the place. The Prime Minister also said that for his day we have more jobs. What job? The NGOs and hot spots, where there is literally a jungle? Don't you see the Greek people, who's risen? "We are not all the same," the Prime Minister said. Indeed, we are not all the same. At this point I would like to remind you of what Mr Voutsis, the President of the Parliament, said at the CEDEFOP conference, the Central Association of Municipalities and Communities. He said: 'Let us not talk about scandals, because the only benefit will be Golden Dawn'. The same thing he said in his article and the well-known speaker, Mr. Tsipras Psykris, in an editorial in "BIMA" on October 2, 2016, entitled "All against All", where attributes said when today's debate was announced: "The scandal debates have begun to appear in all places. It's decision time. The current government needs to be careful and guessing about developments so that there is no sequence of Scandalology. Do not lead the country into a corrosive vicious cycle.’ This corrosive cycle is nothing but the emergence of them, which are really clean beings persecuted and never rulers of this country, that is, the nationalists of the Golden Dawn, who are the only ones who can say that they have clean hands. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will leave this subject a little, but it is worth reading how Mr Psykris started his article, in which he called for an end to the scandal. This really is a little too much to see happening in the two previous speeches. We didn't see any big scandals reported, no big names. Nothing. It was a rustling. Mr. Psilaris at "VHMA" on 2-10-2016 writes: "It was all the communists once. Beyond time and with the "help" of the aprilian dictatorship, the blame for all the mistakes and upside down of the place was shifted to the far right. And indeed, this is what is happening today, where "neutral" Golden Dawn, for what is wrong in Greek society, is the Golden Dawn! It is a given fact that if the people are indignant about the system, if they are angry about this situation, if they suffer from all the monstrous governance they have had over both the previous governments and the SYRIZA governments, then hopefully only in a political power, in the third political power of the country, which, in spite of all the mud and warfare of the former, the now and the future "pimps" of the media, is increasing, becoming more and more powerful. I should like to return here to the speech by the Prime Minister, who, speaking on the channels, said that there was a lasting refusal to establish a legal regime for television stations. Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Mitsotakis and others here, of course, do not want to say things by their name. They don't want to talk about the status of television stations. When did the TV stations become the first time? It all started at the end of 1989. In particular, on 20 November 1989 the TV station 'MEGA' and the TV station 'ANTENNA' began to broadcast on 31 December 1989. These stations began to emit after the elections on 5 November 1989 when the Zolota government was formed on 23 November. It was a government of the New Democracy, the PASOK and the Left and Progress coalition, in which both the JRC and EAP participated, the political father and ancestor - if you like - of the current SYRIZA. So, the'since' scheme for television licences, the involvement, which began when the first two television stations started, was the left, as well as the 'SIEMENS' case, as I am going to refer to. "His permission expired following the implementation of the law," said Mr. Tsipras of the candidate canalarch Kalogrica. If the noise never occurred, perhaps in the future 'pimps', nothing would happen. If not all of these publications, then there would be nothing. In fact, Mr. Prime Minister was invited and Mr. Kalogrissa's relationship with Mr. Mitsotakis' current advisor, Mr. Theodorikos, was invited. Does he have anything to do with Mr. Theodorikos? They're both from the CNN. Why is this relationship, and indeed politics, firmly tied up, not mentioned? "The end of the "davadiliki" said Mr. Tsipras. We'll see about that. We will see it because we do not see any guarantee that television stations in the future will work transparently. We as Golden Dawn have literally been crucified by the pimps of television stations. And yet, the people have turned their backs on them, and they have raised us and firmly highlights us to a third political power in the country. For the ERR, which Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Tsipras have mentioned, we should say things by their name. As it used to work in the past, it's not enough to get things into order. It is unthinkable, when even for football there is a prosecutor - prosecutor football - that there is no prosecutor, that there is no interference of justice, which controls television stuff. We had made numerous complaints about our exclusion from television stations. The answer? One or two times a fine of EUR 15,000 was imposed, that is, an amount corresponding to 1/10 of an advertisement in a zone of great spectacle. The owners of television stations came here and said, "It's not our fault. It's the journalists' fault. We paid the fine." With their money, therefore, they have actually purchased their illegality, an illegal brutality that removes the essence of pluralism, and all good. If we're going to have that kind of ERR in the future, then that doesn't say anything. We must make a draconian law that protects civil life from all that is happening. The Prime Minister also spoke about the sea-lovings of the New Democracy. But you have similar loans from the point of view of SYRIZA, smaller. But I said that the difference is quantitative, not qualitative. For 2015 alone, the ‘SGEI’ received from bank adverts of EUR 550,000. A newspaper that barely has a thousand five hundred cards! Why did bankers give this 550,000 euros? To inform their clients about their banking transactions through the “SGEI”? Of course not. Also, according to the Committee of Inquiry, 2% of the shares in "AGEI", sixteen thousand five hundred shares, worth EUR 100,000, are held by offshore, which the owner refused to name. Also, the paper, speaking of sea loans, received a loan of one and a half million euros with a guarantee from SYRIZA. SYRIZA's loans are also over 8 million euros. In 2010, the Coalition asked the National Bank for a settlement of liabilities of 6.6m euros and a new one and a halfm euros loan. In fact, for this loan, the building of Koumoundouros Square was guaranteed, a building worth little with the enormous deterioration that has been suffered by the centre of Athens. He also said the Prime Minister, referring to the issues of justice, that we all know who the Prime Minister raised telephone calls to the officials of justice. He said it here, in this Chamber. But SYRIZA doesn't do anything about that truth. It does nothing about this great truth to reveal this political deed, but to which the people have turned their backs and have the Golden Dawn dominance and the third political power of the country. Indeed, in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, they had said they would bring the matter. They don't bring the matter. If something is agreed between Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Mitsotakis and the New Democracy with SYRIZA, it is to allow the Golden Dawn in every way. But they won't. Mr Tsipras also addressed the President and Chief of Staff Responsibility, Mr Mitsotakis, to answer whether there is a SIEMENS scandal. And Mr Mitsotakis - we were here - did not say that there is a 'SIEMENS' scandal. He said: "Why doesn't he complain?" And at this point he's right. Why, really, did SYRIZA govern, we said, twenty-one months ago - does not denounce this outrageous, outrageous compromise with SIEMENS, where it is certain that he had damaged the Greek State of EUR 2 billion, was called upon to pay EUR 200 million and - the most outrageous - the thirty million of these would be seminars for transparency and honesty to civil servants? Nothing's happened. Twenty-one months, you rule. You have no right to talk about 'SIEMENS', because you do nothing in that direction. The air's saying that you will denounce the extrajudicial compromise from there on, nothing. And of course there's nothing you can do, because then Mrs Merkel will come and have a different attitude from there and across from you. Mr Mitsotakis said SYRIZA opened his arms at PASOK, and that is a truth, because otherwise it would not be 4% that SYRIZA was a few years ago, at 35% and 36%. But, unfortunately, his behaviour is a 4% party behavior, which believes that Marxist ideas can have any place for the Greek people. Mr Mitsotakis also did not say a word about redundancies of civil servants, which he said against the past and which had become a flag - I would say - of the New Democracy. On the contrary, he spoke in favour of civil servants. The reason? Elections are coming. Whenever they come. Since Mr Mitsotakis has asked for them directly, he has the opportunity, if he wishes, to put Members of his major constituency in resignation, as well as their alternates and to provoke almost full-scale elections and to show the great difference he and the polling companies claim there is between the New Democracy and SYRIZA and to change the government. He tells us that "SYRIZA destroys Greece". Go on, then, be a glorious stage to save Greece. But words. He wants SYRIZA to rule, to be ruined, and from there on, with the famous logic of the mature fruit claiming that he is the prime minister, not alone, of course, but with someone else. Mr President-in-Office has been mentioned - Mr Mitsotakis has not been mentioned and has had no reason to refer to - the Kaloudi event. It is my impression that when this finding was filed by Prosecutor Kaloudi, to whom criminal responsibilities were attributed to both bank and economic parties, Mr. Tsipras spoke only about PASOK and the New Democracy. Aren't you aware that the Kaloudi finding is being charged with criminal liability and with the financial manager of the JRC? It seems, however, that old love is not forgotten, so he missed it. The Kaloudis conclusion was filed in March 2013, was buried in the prosecutor's drawers, and in one month the Samara - Venizelos government lawfully gave amnesty to bankers for the debts of the parties, which are never to be paid. What Mr Mitsotakis said, that he will also use the whole party grant, are words of the air. And, of course, at the rate that New Democracy is going today to pay off the Greek people - because bank money is the money of the Greek people with the recapitalisations - it takes about two hundred years. Right now, we have a big problem. The country is indeed in a state of siege, not literally, but when a country has transferred its national sovereignty, when there is this moral depreciation of the political world as a whole - right or wrong - from the whole of the Greek people, I should - and I propose it - all parties together to suspend Article 86 of the Constitution, the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers, because as long as that is there it poisons public life. And it is wrong and it is rather a disgrace on the part of Mr Mitsotakis to say about the future review when the previous Parliament, in which he served, and indeed as Minister, was a revised Parliament on the days of Samara - Venizelos, and he did nothing. When Samaras saw that he was losing power, he automatically invoked the constitutional review to extend his stay to it. It is the channels, therefore, and the status of immunity, indeed, of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, but also of the Left, as is the 'SIEMENS'. The first agreement with ‘SIEMENS’ was signed then with the agreement of the Left. For this reason, and what we see, we have seen before and will see in the future too, it will be shadows, it will be wars reminiscent of Western - spaghetti and nothing essential. Georgios Souris - it is not today the phenomenon - more than a hundred years ago he wrote the verse: "Thefts poor and rulers with carriages and thieves, thieves without one cubit land and thieves with palaces, one steals hens and scavengers for bread, the other is the nation assembled for riches and honor". These thieves require the people, finally, the government to discover them, to turn the stolen and the thieves to go to jail. But it doesn't do anything. You've been ruling for twenty-one months. And I remember that in these empty chairs - only two members of the Government - Mr Nicoludis sat a few months ago, who said that you would not do anything with the Lagard list. And there's nothing really going on slow. He also said that public works, according to his research, cost Greece five times as much as they cost on average in the European Union. Has there been any checks on public works? Did any checks take place for the 2004 Olympic Games? Open the list of those who worked at ATHENA 2004, see how many relatives of MPs and politicians all of the factions worked with great wages, as well as many journalists. Nothing is done, there is no transparency and the people today are angry, they are literally angry at what is happening. He sees nothing on the horizon. And we should know Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis, who spoke earlier, one as a waiting Prime Minister and the other as current Prime Minister, that both of them together in their election power are not a major current to the Greek people, according to all political investigations. Winner in the question “Who do you prefer for Prime Minister?” Nobody's showing up. And this shows the deep desperation of the Greek people, who at last seeks a national solution, transparency and honesty. And this transparency and honesty can only guarantee it by the party persecuted by all, the Golden Dawn of the Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u66	MP Serres Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 11 October to 16 October 2016. The Member of the State, Mr Niki Kerameo, also requests permission from a short-day absence abroad from November 10 to November 11, 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u67	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. The President of the PASOK Democratic Association has the floor - DIMAR, Mr Gennimata.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u68	As far as I can see, the Prime Minister is out of Athens, and as far as I can see, the "fashion free" has chosen to run away. He's not sitting here listening to the answers to all that he accused us of. Mr. Tsipras addressed me personally and on our resignation. And I feel the need to re-establish ourselves in this Chamber. Because I am called Phophy Gennamas and I am very proud of my resignation, for my family, for her route and for my journey! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] A path of selfless supply in light rather than in darkness, a path with rules and values, a path that stood next to man, a path that our experiences were the national reconciliation, the national health system, social justice, the policy that has been and has man. Do you think, Mr. Tsipras, that you have the political and moral stature to shake our finger? I'm not bulling! The bowling where it takes you! And because I have these experiences from politics, I am really ashamed of you for watching this debate at this level, in this sense, with these arguments at this time about Greece and the Greek people. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] You have achieved this incomprehensible: you have nullified all the sacrifices of the Greek people, you have loaded on the back of the Greek people the capital controls, the third and most hardest memorandum, 86 billion additional debts - which was not to repay the previous ones, but to cover your turbulent negotiation and politics - and recession instead of growth. You have managed to mortgage the country's future by giving the most extreme expressions of international neoliberalism all that they claimed from the governments of the country since 2009. The legacy you leave includes additional: The sale of public property for a hundred years to lenders, their management, the sale of Greek banks for a piece of bread and a recapitalisation of unnecessarily 20 billion, the sale of red loans of 40 billion euros, the end of the protection of the first home, which we protected until the end of 2014, which we had the responsibility. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And of course, you are leaving the legacy of a budget cut, a tornado broken over wages and pensions. And you come today, Mr. Tsipras, and what are you asking us for? Let's talk again-- he says-- he says-- he's involved. Sure. As many times as you want to talk again about complexity, but to do so, having a sense of real responsibility and the implications of your policy in Greece. You have disproved every expectation. You have thrown every pre-election commitment into the juncture of your disposables: from the "cowboy" Baroufakis negotiation to the crocodile tears of the implementation of the memoranda, from the "I don't pay" movement to the Katorugalou and from seismic to the auctioning of the first home. Congratulations! And what do you do about it? You are now trying to draw the attention of the Greek people from the tax notes, from the cut-off pensions from the non-existent PES, from the thirteenth pension that it did not receive and seeks the twelfth, from unemployment, from the auctions in the pacifist courts. Your attempt to disorientate is so provocative now. That's enough! You, supposedly, raised the glove of counterpopulation, so you can come back again and tell us that it's all the previous ones' fault. How long are you going to tell us that? Again and again, the same recipe: balm in hunger, the so-called battle against gun-shooting, not just democratic institutions, no, but the fun of propaganda, misinformation. You have nothing to offer creative, nothing consensual to this place. The only way you've got left is the divisional reason and don't iron us. You're trying to target your opponents. To finish, then, we demand that all cases be dealt with, all responsibilities for media issues, with politicians, with entrepreneurs, for whatever it may have cost the Greek public and the Greek people. It is, however, a genuine challenge and a disguised courage for you to present yourself, who have loaded 100 billion to the Greek people with your tactical policy, as the protector of the public interest, who every little and little, lifts up a plastic flag as a flammable, supposedly, of the battle against interlocutory and corruption. Set mud fans. But understand it well. In these people's courts that you are trying to set up, you will not be the prosecutor, because very simply you are now the defendant in the conscience of the Greek people. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government, how deep did you look into the files? You do have the right people to do the dirty work for you. And what we have seen today is that you do not need much help, you do it yourself. Today, Mr. Tsipras came here to create impressions and tell us that now, in our day, a few months ago, we found some millions in PASOK and we didn't know what to do with them. So listen, to end with lies, games, and vulgarity. The lesson about PASOK's finances we ordered from sworn accountants. And the evidence about a long time ago, we gave it to the D.A. Well, that's enough of the jokes! And because you told us that you don't know where to put the five euros and you have a problem, I wonder if you asked your ministers for forgetting some millions and some shares to say in "only on the way". Where'd they get them? Or is the check not about your close environment? And because you said you've been looking a lot for all the files and came to tell us all about them, did you find out who that party had the boldness, by its own majority, to send to justice his highest coroner, why did he have these antibodies in corruption? Did you recognize the signature under laws, such as the AACC, the ‘DENMARK’, e-prescription, the new public procurement system, the fight against corruption of public officials? You were told, Mr. Prime Minister, what is the party that made the law and put in place the prosecutors of corruption today? We shouldn't keep you in agony. It was PASOK, the democratic party. Because we are the only force that has dared to tackle institutional corruption with measures. We voted for the examination of the parties' loans. We're not hiding behind anyone. But what did you come to tell us today? Did you come once again to point to justice what attitude should you take from here and beyond on this matter? [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] So enough with the big words. And put it right in your mind. We have nothing to fear and compensation. All in the light! Transparency for everyone and everywhere, Mr. Tsipras! And I invite you today and I invite you to sign today our request to set up a committee of inquiry, which will have to investigate what has happened from 2000 until today. And I invite you and I challenge you to now, today, swearing accountants, independent companies, to investigate and check all of your party's finances and the conclusion to send it to the prosecutor. And then you'll be able to talk to us again! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] This is Rhodes, gentlemen of the government, and also of the Officerial Response! You come here today to talk to us, supposedly, about the corruption of others. Has your research - I wondered - dealt with the whole of the past, or did you have a selective route again? Has the period 2004-2009 been absent from your political planning once again? You have been able to convince us that there was never in the country, as if it had never left an indelible mark on the financial derailment, on the 'kombares', on the strife, on the pimps. Or did you ever hear of all this being discussed? That's a good story. It also serves the Civic Opposition, which is unable to cut off the umbilical cord of dependence from its negative past. It attracts Mr Mitsotakis, who prefers to have hidden interlocutors and applause from the SYRIZA - ANEL government. First of all, of course, this suits the prime Prime Minister, who is well aware of his government shape, not only the extreme right, the ANELs, but also the persuasive bodies of the dark right-wing para-states. You have placed "usable" people of the old regime, even former commander of secret services, at critical posts to control, coordinate and manage, seek persecution, bury and dig files, direct the prosecution authorities with the master of the experience. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Orchestrated research, curious time coincidences, interrogative actions on the eve of critical decisions and the creation of climate. What a nice conversation when you talk about justice in times of democracy! All this in exchange, of course, for the full amnesty of the period 2004-2009. All tools, all means to incriminate and build targets. It's all PASOK's fault! And be careful, not all of the PASOK - no! - but only what's here today. Those who have caught and seen the light of the left revolution are now rounded to ministerial chairs and wearing costumes next to the indestructible! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] The ones we renounced are next to you, Prime Minister! Wonderful situations. That Koumundur square fountain has become Shiloam's swimming pool for repentant and sinners who enter corrupt pasochians and have genuine left rebels! The 3% idealists, however, suddenly became Dolphins of the Attica and forgot everything. Now they don't remember anything they said. Ports? PPC? Water? Airports? What's this? There is no other way, because dozens of public works manufacturers know: they are SYRIZA! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And I now come to the issue at issue, in the triangle of interlocutory you have tried to set up: government, bank of Attica, and Kalogritsa. The aim was to check the update, to impose a regime that will only reproduce your news, to do "SYRIZAhanel", your propaganda. And this work was played in six acts. I begin with the act first: you have undermined the independent authority, the National Broadcasting Council, by subtracting its responsibility for the licensing procedure and transferring it arbitraryly to Mr Pappa. Unique criterion throughout this "excellent" process, the incredible competition: Who has the strongest wallet? And we don't care where the money comes from. Act two: you arbitrarily reduced the number of licences to four despite the possibilities offered by technology today. The fewer, the more you thought, the more easily controlled. Act No 3: You selected and strengthened your own contractor, known to us and from his 1989 role. You supported him, I say, Mr. Spirtzi, with project assignments, with scandalous partitions, such as Patras - Tower Street, and overcoming me, as in Lesvos. Act 4: The Attica Bank stood on the side of the contractor. How? With new loans of many tens of millions of euros, with tens of times the credit line, notice, in the middle of capital controls, at scandalously favourable interest rates, with no guarantees, and all about a company with no solvency, with its credit rating lost to the tartar. Everyone should learn in Greece, ladies and gentlemen, how the Bank of Attica of engineers became the "SYRIZA bank" of Maximos mechanisms. Act 5: With a casino contest and without, it seems, compliance with the transparency rules you have granted the permissions. You lied, however, that you checked the "substantiated" of the successful tenderers, as, especially in Mr. Kalogerica's case with the pastures, it proved. This is also a major issue with criminal responsibilities. Work is broken, and now you're coming and you're playing it, and you're punishing it. Mercy! Shame on you, gentlemen of the government! Act 6: You are attempting to protect your methods with horrific interventions, such as the one Mr Tsipras has done from the step of the Thessaloniki International Exhibition to the Council of State. You have even exposed irreparably to the eyes of the Greek citizens and the President and the Council of State. Unfortunately for you, thankfully for the Greeks, you failed, you got caught in the act. But the bad habits that you followed will always follow you, because everyone knows that if it hadn't been for all this trouble, if we didn't raise the issue so high, now Mr. Kallagris would have prepared his channel, incorporated it and set up the pension room more likely in Koumundourou Square. And all this with no money, no guarantees, with unique supplies some pounds of hay from Ithaca. You hope this story will be forgotten, but we won't do you a favor, no. No, we, the Democratic Reconciliation, will not allow it to be forgotten. We'll remind you, Lords of the government, the vatrette Goose. And we will remind every democratic citizen of this country that you continue to play this lousy game in the critical field of information with a competition perforated, eloquent, real paper tower. And don't tell us again about the volunteers' money that you'll make use of it, that's a constant egg, because all of this, you're committed to the partners and they're in the budget. The triangle of interlocutory has its natural perpetrators who are absolutely visible. They are all the ones who headed with the channels, with the Attica Bank and the works on Mr. Kalogritsa, they are Mr. Papapas and Mr. Spirtzis. Today, however, the Prime Minister took full responsibility for the good of the contest. So I conclude that there is now a moral automation, and it has a name, and it is called Alexis Tsipras. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the major issue that has been created with justice. The government in its attempt to set up a regime attempts to ridicule justice. The role of Mr. Papagelopoulos in this is already known. He does not hesitate to proclaim publicly or with leaks, to justify, to try to impose judgments. It does not hesitate to intervene in the self-government of justice by insulting the institution and leading to open confrontation between the hierarchy of justice and senior judges. They did not hesitate, through the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena, to create a major problem in the country itself, no reason to shake ELSTAT's case. Mr Tsipras did not hesitate to point to the highest courts what they will do and how they will do to legitimise his coup d'état, so that the meeting of the CoC was adjourned and there are loose ends which undermine his prestige and his true very important history. Recently Mr. Tsipras' systemic logic exceeded every limit. You have called, Prime Minister, the Presidents of the Supreme Courts - not their trade unions - to support them by raising their salaries. What was that, a efficiency bonus? You treat higher courts as government offices and judges as a persuasive institution of your government. The worst was, however, the message from the statements made by Mr Sakellariou from the Maximos Mansion, namely that justice is now given to the country on the basis of popular feeling rather than on the basis of the Constitution and the laws. And I ask directly, Mr Tsipras: Do you adopt these views? You must take a seat. On this occasion, let me repeat that the constitutional review cannot be carried out in squares by a party committee. Dissolve her, she doesn't even have a prescription. Dissolve it before it dissolves - because it has already begun - and follow the procedure laid down in the Constitution. Come to Parliament, without ideals, with concrete proposals and the House will have to engage in dialogue with both the scientific community and with the Greek society. We will be here with our proposals and tell you for too many months. You're sending the constitutional review to the bells! Ladies and gentlemen, even human rights, human suffering, have been caught on the left-wing web. The measles of the management of refugee resources and the issue are typical. A management with very large political, geopolitical and humanitarian weights and management with large economic sizes in uncharted areas. From the outset we have asked for a national understanding on this matter. You, of course, have never shown any such mood and so to date there is no real information, transparency and accountability. But tolerance is ending somewhere. You gave almost white-collar powers to the Ministry of National Defence, with a dowry of EUR 74 million, due to the exceptional circumstances. Conditions, of course, which, in principle, you have created and made no attempt to change. Two of you have resigned for these reasons. One, Mr. Karatzoglu, did it quietly. The other, Mr. Buddour, with complaints. Be careful, however, was a surgical blow, so that his complaints only concern Mr. Muzala and do not touch the real leaders. While there are approved resources from the European Commission, there is still no management authority to manage them, in accordance with national and Community rules. The result is that the money ends in international organisations and non-governmental organisations because of your own omissions. As if not all of this were enough to serve your new engagement and party clientele, you did not hesitate to build appropriate legislative tools. You did not hesitate to grant fines for major tax violations by means of a legislative act, only two months after you took over power. Who knows what kind of election notes you got out of the way then. And despite our persistent questions, you have stubbornly refused to post the lists of big talkers that have benefited from the charitable arrangement you have offered them. And I wonder, "Are they the same businessmen who benefit from the selective activity and the parastate of the Great Rich Tax Center?" I'm not saying that. You're an introductory, because your co-pilot, Mr. Kammenos, has said that. The photographic devices didn't stop there. A number of arrangements have found the way to this Chamber and a classic case the disputed provision that enabled ministers and MPs to own or participate in offshore companies, who have been dragged out of badly badly, but have no effect after the saliva that has been provoked. The Government has never given convincing answers, nor has it ever admitted that amnesty has been and cannot be revoked by the abolition of the provision. Who were protected from this provision? Who asked you? Who did you make this gift to, Prime Minister? Conclusion: The business against interlocutory was actually hiding your plan to weaving a web with it. The government's multi-advertised struggle with the complex became 'tango for two'. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] One thing is certain. You are singing one - one of the bulwarks of our democracy, first of all the state, following the independent authorities, the media and justice. And listen: Complication and corruption are not a part of the citizens' DNA, it's colourless and it doesn't have an ID. It's born through the certainty of impunity. It is the natural conclusion of lawlessness and the lack of legal and moral barriers. It is the main symptom of a society in crisis and a state in an institutional deadlock. The accident for our country is that this debate is taking place just when on the table of institutions, partners and lenders the biggest issues relating to the future of the country, the issue of the restructuring and impairment of public debt, the budgetary objectives, the prospect of growth and exiting from the crisis and the memoranda. Unfortunately, the government was there as a passive viewer, powerless and unable to intervene, negotiate, determine the developments and justify the sacrifices made by the Greek people over the years. Now, within these critical times, our country really needed national line and national understanding. It needed a strong government to be able to enforce these solutions and negotiate with results in favour of Greek women and the next generation. This government, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, is evidently unavoidable. The country needs another government and another policy, and this can only be done through the change of relations today in society and tomorrow in the Parliament and the strengthening of the Democratic Partnership, the democratic party associated with all the major changes, reforms and progress in this area, and not the re-establishment of the Right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how the House organises and operates, fifty-five students and students and three teachers from the 12th General High School Patras (B' Department). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the KKE Parliamentary Group, Dimitris Koutsoubas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u70	It has now become a sad monotony. It has not been a long time since we were discussing this matter again here in this House and let tens of people's problems be pending, proposals for a law for the relief of workers in your drawers, at least from our own party. Every time government and Dedicated Opposition compete for the government chair, the next time they feel the popular pressure, the discontent, the justified indignation of the people. Whenever these same parties are increasingly converging in positions and proposals, they resort to their favorite recipe, scandals, supposedly the fight against corruption, interlocutory, the defence of justice. For years we have been following the same work, which is so much played, so misleading, that a world that has been being taken away from this conflict before, is currently facing it only with suspicion, if not with disobedience and indignation. We lived the same for so many years and until recently with the New Democracy and with the PASOK, when one another took the role of the Prosecutor. But when the needs of the system imposed this, all of this was forgotten, it went away and we passed on to the era of cooperation and coexistence at that time. It's always been like this. Convergence on fundamental issues has always pushed you to try to haunt your supposed superiority over the rest of your political opponents, on the basis of your so-called morality, your integrity, the ability of your executives, highlighting the lack of these traits to others, just to confuse the world. This is exactly the same way that SYRIZA, the ANELs, the coup d'état, what New Democracy and PASOK did and their willingness to unravel them before. In one respect, then, we understand you. It's really hard for you. What are you up against? The memorial? After you voted together and supported it. The various anti-grass measures? After SYRIZA retained all the anti-grassian arsenal of the New Democracy, it also implemented and intends to implement - with great willingness - measures which the New Democracy has not been able to implement, although it would have liked to do so. In dealing with the markets? MATs and chemicals, MATs and chemicals and the other. Just New Democracy was defending repression, while SYRIZA is making the repression, and then it says it's upsetting. The privatizations? After SYRIZA has proved to be the best student in privatisation, even surpassing his teacher in New Democracy. On the issues of growth and the economy? Since you both have, as a Gospel, the directions of capital, to stimulate its own investments, to shield its own profits, to recover on the ruins of popular rights. You may have individual differences. But your direction is homogeneous, undivided and indivisible, Mr. Phile! Faced with foreign policy issues? Here, if there is a match, since SYRIZA has become NATO's most fervent preacher, as New Democracy and PASOK have been for years. So you are necessarily resorting to issues of management, corruption, morality - the well-known - or other issues that you are using to highlight your political differences and divide the people into false and disorientated dividing lines, as has recently been done with the issue of the Church and Religious. On the one hand, the government, which, while it has done "hard", really, the overtime separation of State-Church and through the constitutional review it proposes, opens up individual issues, secondary issues, irresponsible and certainly the cosmopolitan dimension. On the other hand, the hierarchy of the Church also found the opportunity to return to a darkening unprecedented anti-communism and defend atrocities today, against which the majority have already turned its back, even our religious fellow citizens, after turning us into other, dark times. Ladies and gentlemen, to be clear, we do not believe that any controversy on the issue, which we are discussing today, of corruption, of interlocutory, etc., only serves propaganda, no matter how much that is. The Greek people must know that in the name of the fight against corruption, the interactive operation of restructuring, adjustments to the state sector, to the economy, to the urban political system, which will facilitate the activity of large groups alone. For example: Simplification of procedures for investment, established under development laws and which circumvent environmental, labour legislation, is done in the name of combating bureaucracy and transparency. Another example: the directions of the European Union and other international organisations for the control of parties, their economics, which even reach the point of intervening in internal affairs, in operation, in relations with the members and friends of the parties, are once again made in the name of transparency. And there are communist parties, as you all know here, in Europe, who have a very bitter experience of such directions, which in some cases reach the point of banning them. And we all know this isn't happening from one day to the next. We need a certain advance. In fact, what do the defenders of this corrupt system mean by 'corruption', whether they belong to the two parties in today's coexistence, whether they belong to the other parties and also to institutes, which we hear from them here, here and there, both in Greece and internationally throughout the world? In fact, for example, they mean 'corruption' the maintenance by all the governments of the law, which defines the sixty special tax exemptions, which the shipowners enjoyed and enjoyed, and are responsible for the fact that the state has less revenue than the shipowners have from the paradoxes of the immigrants. The paradoxes of immigrants are more, if you see the information from the revenues that the state has from the profits of shipowners and from taxes that they do not pay. Does the term 'corruption' mean a reduction in the tax rates of major business groups at the same time as the escalation in the taxation of popular strata? Do they mean privatizations, that is, government support for banks when government spending on education, health, insurance is being cut? Is it, at the moment, that all of this applies, is being seen as corruption, the adoption of laws that reduce wages and pensions, increase people's taxation and adapt labour relations to the needs of increasing capitalist profits? In any case, we know very well that this is not a phenomenon of corruption. The opposite is true. Legislative activity for the benefit of capital is considered - and is, in fact - an essential element here in the capitalist state. That is why the workers of our country, in order to understand behind words what 'corruption' means, the parties and the mechanisms of the system must put together - alongside the laws that are passed in this House, which concern the shipowners, the industrialists, but along with those that concern workers, farmers, professionals, and those who characterize as scandals. That is why, because they have no other arguments - you have no other arguments - you are dealing with your racing laurels! One of his exiled and detained childhoods, the other barbecued smearing at his school some years ago when he was 16! Ladies and gentlemen, be merciful with these! The demand for direct and end-of-all scandals, which come to the surface, must not lead to disorientation of the Greek people in order to cover the real causes of the popular problems. From today's debate, at least, it is confirmed that the various scandals are the other side of the coin of anti-population policy, which burdens our people with new burdens. Nevertheless, the JRC, on the occasion of various debates and during the debate on various individual bills, which come and are related to the issue we are discussing, such as drafts on 'from the outset', on economics, on justice and so on, has repeatedly presented many specific proposals rejected by the other parties. Proposals such as: Compulsory conversion of all anonymous shares into nominal shares to natural persons, as well as all financial products of the public and banks, so that there can be effective control over what each owns. Prohibition on the operation of offshore companies. Checking on the export of funds. Abolition of all secrets and bank, tax, business and commerce. We would remind you that tax and bank confidentiality have only been lifted with regard to the prosecution authorities. How does the government respond to these proposals, for example, of the JRC? Like previous governments. They reject them without question. What check can really be done with anonymous shares, anonymous financial products? Who are you and the others laughing at? Who stops you from doing this? Nobody. And do not say again the European Union, the quartet, etc. If you want reversals, make them. Put the knife on the bone. Beat the fist on the table, even for them. But you don't, because this is how the holy and loyals of capital are affected. And by the way, since there is a debate on transparency and because the Prime Minister said that we will speak with names, the names we have heard here today from everyone's speeches are well known. hundreds of times have been said in this House in recent years, they have been written in the newspapers, they have entered the committees, etc. Neither did Mr. Tsipras nor Mr. Mitsotakis enlighten us in particular. They blew up for the same time. So I'm coming back. In April, our group submitted a request for documents, and we asked that you give us specific information, what is going on with the control of the Lagard list, but also with the other lists. I submit to the Minutes and the request and reply of the Ministry. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Steenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] I know, of course, that the Minister responsible gave an answer after four months. Anyway. So we have been asked to give us the following information: to which natural or legal persons are controlled - in particular by names - who have been completed and what amounts have been charged to each of them - to those who have of course been charged - what amounts have been collected and by whom. Because, as we all know, it is not just a question of being charged, but also of being collected. Finally, after four whole months, what did he say? It only gave us some general centralization - quite well known - elements. He told us that it was done by the General Secretariat of Public Revenue for two hundred and fifty cases and that 203 million euros were established on the Lagard list. In a similar way, it also answers the results of the checks carried out by the IORP. It did not, however, provide information on the amounts actually collected from the amounts established. However, it did not even provide any information on the other elements we requested: who did the check, who were confirmed, and who paid for them. And all that invoking confidentiality. One and the other, the journalists know it, and I don't know who else in here and out of here, but for the House, you call on, like the previous ones, the secrets. Well, we tell you: Remove classified information. Why hide them? [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] Ladies and gentlemen, for our broadcasting stations, we asked for the names of the shares to be registered as a natural person and a ban on listed companies or extra-territorial companies from having or participating in press companies. SYRIZA used to say the same thing. The last law on television stations, however, is behind even previous proclamations, even in words. It also shows the real intentions of today's coexistence in this matter. After all, the SYRIZA plan on television licences with the law passed does not serve to deal with the issue. A redistribution of the "pitty" serves between old, new fireplaces, from which, possibly, some more friendly to the government will emerge. The great losers again will be the media workers and the people's right to information. This is the main and does not change the television scenery, because the government did the specific competition, much more so that various "buds" came out in the course of the competition by contractors of pastures until professed "growers" and other relatively well-known throughout the whole world. There are also competitions with New Democracy and other parties, defending in their alliances some of the others, who are not defending the government. They've got knives, you see, businessmen among themselves, they're getting knives and bourgeois political parties. This is because both the various luxuries and the various games, because only as a bargain can it be described as the fact that while in your law, your law, the auctioning of all-embracing pan-Hellenic and regional channels will proceed, and while the government has said that it will proceed immediately, after meeting with the successful ones you said that it will go for the ultimate unknown future and this case. Obviously all of this refers to a retreat in front of the new Canadians, if not an underground agreement, to give them time to establish themselves on the market and that is why you do not implement your own law either. I shall refer to the other part, which the Secretary-General said in an interview with the State TV and the ERT, leaving open the possibility of banning advertising at the ERT, not, of course, because the pain in the quality of public television has caught you, but because in this way you are giving a gift of 6 million euros and more advertising for private canals. On these issues, the Government was asked by the JRC to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, but did not respond convincingly. So here's how they're made deliberately or unintentionally, consciously or unconsciously - we don't consider it - intertwining relations from the defense itself - that's our view - of the capitalist economy and property, which you are also very well serving. Of course, that's nothing new. In the context of this system, where real power has it, and relations are developed and bazaars become between the respective governments and the parties that intend to take part in the management of the system and in the various centres - private, business interests - especially those which play a role in the formation of the so-called 'common opinion', i.e. popular consciousness. As it turns out, SYRIZA was an exception, no matter how much he wants to show that he's fighting the complexion. As long as the previous New Democracy and PASOK governments hit it, then SYRIZA will. As for the war that SYRIZA claims to be made by canalarchs, mediators, businessmen, on the occasion of and on the competition for empty, slowly blood, gentlemen of the government! In your face, the majority of them have. Don't worry. Besides, you're still doing a good job for them. All right, there's some discontent left. Alas! This is always the case in these cases. But some of them are already waiting. After all, you still have too much wool to rinse on this matter. Let me point out one more thing. The New Democracy itself, as well as the PASOK, along with various media and parrots from the so-called Canadian rivals, make this avadorial for you, dirty, of course, for your voters, pure and honest fighters, those who still follow you, propaganda. They render the law of the SYRIZA Government on television licenses, but also other aspects of government policy, in the allegedly communist identity of SYRIZA. They're talking about Sovietization of the information. They reach the point of presenting SYRIZA about as a communist, left-wing, philosophical power. It's not random. They think that's how they do a lot of birds. One of these is to stick to socialism, to the ideas of the Communists, to the retreat of anti-population policy implemented by the current government. To take the scouts and the KKE for the works and days of SYRIZA. In this way, on the one hand, you are able to appear still in a more left-wing, radical audience as a fighter for the bosses, when at all levels you implement their policy. On the other hand, they also cultivate the social company of businessmen, trying to react to government policy to entangle it, channel it in a conservative, reactionary direction. Of course SYRIZA is happy with this criticism, as it is presented by his opponents as something that is not. And, of course, we say that now is a purely urban party serving this power of capital. All of them want to hide their strategic assembly, their common vote in the third memorandum, in the anti-grassroots measures. Ladies and gentlemen, we are following the party fight which has mainly broken out between the government and the New Democracy, to which other parties, of course, take part, on independence - says - of justice. Only that the so-called independence of justice judges it every time according to their position. When it's in the government, it's all well-built in justice, which runs out of independence, impartiality and prestige. When they are in opposition, then it suddenly ceases to be independent, the complications and interferences in its work are discovered. They say they forget that together they vote for the Memorandums, the main anti-popular laws, which justice is also called upon to implement, to agree to the appointment of its leadership by the respective government. All this confrontation has nothing to do with the real issues of the administration of justice, but also the problems of the judges themselves. In fact, the aim is, through it, to control mechanisms, to influence developments in the area, in favour of their close party interests and parts of business groups, which conflict hard in the field of the economy. It is a well-known role and the position of justice within this power, this economy, which, as part of the state mechanism, has in its nature the task of supporting and vindicating the interests of the ruling class. We have done so and are constantly confirmed by developments. It is a classic, as we say, its role, namely to exploit anti-grassroots policy, to serve as a whole the interests of the large groups at the expense of the workers, the people. To this end, it remains intact and strengthens the authoritarian framework for the functioning of the judiciary and the hierarchical dependence of judges to serve their manipulation and alignment with the sovereign policy. We - as we have repeatedly stressed - do not identify with the institution of justice and their specific role in the current system of all judges, the people, namely, who work and strive in this area and exist, together with the rest of the people, to one degree or the other, the consequences of anti-grassroots policies. We stand by their fair demands. And Mr Tsipras and the current government, instead of leaning on them, refuse to meet the judiciary associations, as they have been asking for months ago. By duplicating the practices of their predecessors, they circumvent the judicial associations, namely the natural and institutional representatives of the judges, and choose to speak only with the Presidents of the Supreme Court, and in fact, in announcing that they will create two judges - and not only - of the high speeds, giving, on the one hand, up to increases in the tops, but, on the other hand, clearly safeguarding, despite deliberately chewed words and attempting to reassurance, the gradual abolition of young, under-represented judges, in particular, who are the vast majority of this House. His policy "divide and reign", manipulation and deception, once again we see it here in all its greatness. Ladies and gentlemen, the people have before them to face the great scandals, which are the huge injustices that come in the form of avalanche as a follow-up to the previous ones and concern both labour rights and taxables, the auctions, the whole of the measures that put tombstones in rights to already extinct people's incomes, in their own life. To conclude, I would like to raise another problem which, in your logic, I understand that you do not understand as a major issue of corruption and scandal, which, in fact, affects the sensitive area of our youth. You will certainly be aware of the pan-Hellenic research in the student population for the use of addictive substances and other addictive behaviours of 2015. It reveals that in addition to the other important sixteen-year-olds - 13.1%, please - it is systematically engaged in gambling - Joker, Betting, racing and all of this - and legal and illegal online. The responsibilities of the governments so far are - we would say - criminals for the spread of gambling. With the state ahead for too long, false hopes have been cultivated, pushing and kids to gamble, to try their luck, supposedly catch the good one. The problem is not whether gambling is legal or illegal, since anyway the climate created by the advertising of legality is enough for the advertising of the illegal. It is a reality that is maintained, reproduced, enhanced in a variety of ways, because it benefits the system in many ways, bringing it multi-level profits. But these are not included in the debate on corruption, complexity, scandals. And yet these are state-run, government-government scandals, politicians, who even spoil souls, consciences of young people. Ladies and gentlemen, we insist that the Greek people see the overall picture, see the forest and not the trees that set it up every time for disorientation. And the forest is this rotten and corrupt system that "bleeds" our people, is its political staff, the various centres that, despite their competition, serve this system and, of course, the interlocutory relationships that will develop as long as this system is not overturned. That, after all, is what must be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much Mr. Koutsuba. Mr Stavros Theodorakis has the floor for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, there is out there a crook who is currently walking around the villages and cities and says he has 500,000, 000, 000, 000, 000, on the side and that he is able to repay all the Greeks' debts, not only the public debt that Mr Tsipras will remove, but also the private debt, what someone has on a'red' card. He has opened offices all over Greece and is preparing to come down to the elections. So instead of making fun of these phenomena, we should ask ourselves who is turning the ground on these guys, these crooks. Did the people who said that with only one move, can you erase most of the country's debt? Are politicians calling 'no house in the hands of a banker' and now sending MMs to defend auctions? Did those who prided themselves in the channels that they would not pay HISPIAN and by HISPIAN were also calling on people not to pay HISPIAN and now not only say "payed HISPIA," but "payed the increases in tolls, which we would cut"? When politics, ladies and gentlemen, is delivered to demagogy, it will not be long before the moment is believed and the one who says that it has 500,000 000 000 to share it in the world. But our point is the complexity, and that is where I want to get there. Demagogues and populists never take their own power. They need channels, they need money, they need to be involved with political and business interests. So the involvement, ladies and gentlemen, has helped you to get to power. In other words, businessmen and Canadians, who saw the old ending, believed they would have a new decade of power with you. Can I remind you of the headlines? We've got 'em here. May I remind you what the channels, the dialectic interviews? To say what? To say - remember, from the outset - that it comes - beware of the sacrilege, what you were saying, Mr. Tsipras said so, that is, in fact - the winter worse than the winter of 1941, when we had a hundred thousand dead in Athens. That's what you said. And now, by magic, the humanitarian crises are over and we are celebrating at Kolonaki! Celebrate what? Oil increases in winter? Our main concern should have been to tackle the problem. However, your main concern - and I am sorry to say this - was that, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, it was to mark the others as intermittent and for two years as spreading the river. I don't see Mr. Skourletis, Mr. Poppa. But I see Mr. Kammenos. And I wanted to ask: How much did it cost you - in money do I mean - to try to stink the river? You have thrown tons of mud in the first and only attempt of people who did not belong to politics fireplaces and who did not come from party basements. And you did so, of course, with the help of those you complained about. In the obviouss you have denounced them and secretly give them your hand. How much money - in particular, answer - have you given these trolls - black money, of course, I imagine - and all these so-called atrocious bloggers, all these disguised anti-powered fighters, all these party journalists who have had as their main concern for two years this morning until night to throw mud at the Potami, that they are the contractors and that they are the Germans? Recently we learned - beware, he escaped - that one of those leading athletics was an employee of Ms. Gerovalis. Not an employee at her house - she didn't pay him with her own money - but an employee at her office. He was paid, that is, by the Greek people to write these. Take note of some of his words: 'In the country...' - take note, ladies and gentlemen, that you want to bring the new morale into politics, Mrs Gerovali's official - '... where 7% votes Potami, why is it strange that 10% is voting Golden Dawn? Telescopes and fascism go together." Another question of Mr Tsipras' government official: "It is scientifically confirmed that man survives without brains and votes Potami." You have had many of these - and you reward them today with the Greek people's money - to swear those who don't like you. Where are you hiding them? In Maximos, the Ministry of Defense, the information services, the underground of Koumoundouros. The publisher of the newspaper "XONI", which was filled with millions of posters all over Greece - I imagine there are also the documents, which will at some point also check the tax for the decoupling of the whole country, more than half a million people say - he is also appointed to Mrs Gerovasili's office. The site manager Olympia.gr is at the information service of Mr. Kammenos, the Ministry of Defence. The list is huge. But I won't eat my time to deal with this scum. But it is your parastate and you must tell the truth, even for a moment. What did they cost you? Why did you take them? How did you pay them until you became government? Because now the government pays them, that is, the Greek people pay them. How did you pay them two years? Mr. Tsipras is, I imagine, in his office and he's listening. When he was a opposition party, he had a demand that everyone be here and listen to him. Now he can watch, I hope, from the comfort of his office, what we say. I am therefore addressing Mr Tsipras, and I say that it is time to apologize to us for the behaviour of his members - not all his members, but enough - but also for that announcement of the SYRIZA press office, a few days before the elections. Note a statement from the SYRIZA Press Office: “The River was built on the order of specific interests.” And since we said to speak with addresses and names, I challenge him openly. What are these specific interests? To say it here in the House. What are the interests that built the river? If he doesn't say so, he's just a slander. Why, though, was it important for you, for some of you - generalization is not right - to try to stink the Potami? Let me explain why. The populist and demagoger are not afraid of the old. She's afraid of the new one. You thought you had an advantage in confronting with the old powers that they had ruled and had their problems and their skeletons in some wardrobes. Your fear was whether or not new forces, independent of the state, independent of guilds, independent of interests, of citizens who produce, of citizens who dare, of citizens who inspire, who inspire, who inspire, who can make mistakes but do not start as officials of any interest. That is why all of your mud since April 2014 - which we have recorded - and all your trolls - which we have also recorded - was the main target of Potami. But let me tell you - because Mr. Tsipras said it was his own - that he would not back off - that we would not go back. Our plan will remain open, active. We will continue, in other words, to try to create a great revolutionary movement, far from quarrels and interests. We will continue to call on the citizens to dare get into the game and not just the party mechanisms. All those who colluded with populism and promoted some reforms in the past few years, the reforms that the place needed, must re-enter the game. And we'll keep calling, of course, the young people in front of us. And if all of them listen to us, you know, gentlemen of the conflict, that you won't easily make it through with them, because they have nothing to fear. Now we're going to what you're proud of, because I'm guessing you'll be ashamed of what I said. Why four channels? Let's start with the pre-parator question. This question will always follow you. Citizens wanted to change things on TV. But policies are not carved because a friend in Florence has an opinion or you had an idea in the bathroom. He wants a plan, and we gave it to you. But you don't care about the plans. You called Mr. Kammenos to tell you what to do with the books of Religious. You heard him and you smashed your head. And now with the Constitution you have set up a committee for the constitutional review, in which there is not even a constitutionalist! So the solution for the channels you had in front of you. And what is this solution? I had said it here a long time ago, and I had told it to Mr Tsipras, at the meeting with him, I had said it to Mr Papapas: first, no more sea-loving. We agree. No more dependence on party, political money. No more contractors and suppliers of channel ownership. And we suggested that we should legislate on this, that contractors and suppliers should not be able to have channels. And we suggested that you give more permissions, at least twice as much. Cyprus has seven. You want a total of seven, three state and four private. In other words, we have proposed that the very simple thing to do is to get more money than more. We have also proposed something for you: to pay the channels every year a percentage of their turnover in the state funds and, in particular, we have said about education. And you preferred the show and the unemployment of two thousand people, just to say that we had three days in one room and we beat them until they gave us the money! Ladies and gentlemen, beyond phenomena, there is a way to change everything in this country. But without tearing it down - we'll say it again - because from the ruins you're hard to rebuild. From the conclusion of the Bank of Greece for the Bank of Attica it appeared that the loan criteria had become rubber, not only by you but also by the previous ones. But you, in the final straight, believed that with loan and a few pastures, you would do "SYRIZA TV"! And lie when you say you cut Mr. Kalogerica. You didn't cut Mr. Kaloger. Your stamp was "Yes". Your committee covered him. Your committee has covered all the weaknesses of Mr. Kalogritsa's "subjects". But he left the race himself when he realized that his moves are now in the microscope of justice and society. It often says Mr. Papapas that there was a "airplanet" that publishers took Greece's air free of charge. When did the publishers get the frequencies without a competition, ladies and gentlemen? To the Jandetaki government. Then were the permits not granted? Why did you accept the 'irradiation'? Why didn't you question her? Why didn't you react? I'm not saying then, but in the next few years. What do I mean? That the SYRIZA and ANEL executives, whenever they were in power, did the same as they supposedly denounce. On a decision by the Universal Government - to go to a very difficult and inexorable subject for the political world, with many details and sub-paragraphs - did not give the digital benefits to the national supplier and SIEMENS - reach your memory that far? - by direct assignment and without an international competition? Mr. Drasakis wasn't then Minister? Tell us what happened, because we did. Why were these benefits granted to the ‘SIEMENS’, universally speaking? So don't pretend to be strangers. You're part of a system you're denouncing. And I'm afraid you've tried to do all the lalaves with the old system and now that some of them look like a set-up lemon button, you're leaving them for more confident investors. But the swamp, ladies and gentlemen, that creates the complexion, is state political money, it's government procurement, it's contractors, it's the blurred criteria, it's who gets the job, who gets it from and why it's getting it. He will usually take it because a minister has given 'OK' because he has a profit, because a party official has said 'yes', because some political groups have said 'yes'. So if you want us to end this up with complicated, clear rules, impregnable competitions, provisions from a single authority. Each minister can't sign million-dollar supplies. And, of course, we must finish with the fixed contractors' competitions, the fragmentation of major works, the direct assignments and the vagina of discounts. There are two things to be done: businessmen and politicians. If you want to hit the strand, then, there is the simplest way: Transparency in the flow of public money. You keep shouting about the responsibility of the previous ones, to draw attention. But we know and the people's responsibilities have been attributed to the previous ones. The answer cannot be "we're worse, we're better than those who've governed." You should give the writing samples of a different management. So let's go see the new issues that have arisen in your governance - and I'm glad that Mr. Muszalas is here - which different samples of writing you have given. Refugee: The treatment of a refugee in Norway costs 12,000 euros in Greece as well 15,000 euros. Your man, Mr. Buddour, denounces it. When will we finally have all the evidence? This does not concern the Minister, who is tortured in other areas of immigration. But it is all about your entire government policy. When will we finally have the data on the cost of creating and maintaining hot spots and hosting centres? We revealed signs and monsters in Chios, Litochoro, Kos, Serres, about who gets the jobs. Now here's a new lead from Lero. The President of Leros Hotel President denounces it. Don't go to any "right-wing evil". Left man, founding member of the “Greek Ferraio”. So what does it say? In December that passed us - do not laugh at King Ferraio, there is also a tradition on the left - he became aware, as a hotelier in the region, of a notice calculating the value of the project at EUR 520,000. On 10 December the competition was opened in the 'DENMARK', seven companies appeared immediately and in two days the contractor was selected. Two days, no tax information, but let's overlook it! What's the big deal? The final contract was signed at EUR 158,000, i.e. 1 million above the notice and when the President of the Hotel asked me why the price was so much up, he replied that various things were added, biological cleansing, air conditioners, which have so far not been done. The biological has not been done and the air conditioners have been forced to bear their own costs, the municipality of Leros, forty air conditioners. Unless we say again that the 1 million in Lero for an action is short in front of the scandals of the previous ones. Complication and corruption, ladies and gentlemen, are not only the three - four great ones with whom all the respective governors have laundry. It's also the client state, it's the rosés, it's photographic and charismatic acts, all that all the previous governments have raised, with few exceptions, all that's done to smash public coke. The complexion, yes, to answer your question directly, the question you obviously all have on your lips. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President is ringing.]] You forgot. I will not speak for fifty-three minutes, like Mr. Tsipras. I'll talk two or three more minutes. The complexion, yes, was born in the courtyards of power parties or rather in the underground. Some have benefited - I mean from the old ones - and some of them have been indifferent. Their responsibility is great, criminal, but it also exists for others. And you, the best students of the old system, give a new content to the complexion. Let me tell you a few things we could do right away, if we really wanted to hit the argument. Today we have about ninety-five to a hundred - the number of bodies and agencies chasing corruption is unknown. There should be an anti-corruption principle, strengthened by trained personnel. You know, why we referred to and referred to the control of'subjects', who are we mocking at? What check will be made? Do you know that the control of tens of thousands of'subjects' in the unit responsible for the fight against black money - is the third unit involved in the control - employs five employees for tens of thousands of declarations 'underside'? I said before about supplies that there is a need for a single national public procurement authority. Ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing that a supervisory authority should be set up for the revenue and expenditure of NGOs, systematically documenting all the grants they receive and monitoring their finances. We need to do something about pluralism and lack of codification. I don't even enter into the debate how bad this polynomial is for attracting investors. You know that. It is another issue concerning the economy, but it is also about corruption and complexity, because gaps and ambiguities in the laws give rise to corruption and complexity. We therefore call for codification and a final law on each issue, with the responsibility of the State, without any references. That is to say not to be able to haggle the government's heads of government with interests. Finally, I'll say about justice. Let's not get the politicians into the fields of judicial authority. We have proposed that the Presidents of the Supreme Courts should be chosen from among three persons who have indicated the fullheartedness of the courts, that the government should not dive in the yearbook, not be able to haggle and see all these spectacular and dangerous things in justice. You have not given an answer and I have once again caused Mr. Tsipras to answer us. It is bad for the old system, we agree that it is bad and the people who served in important positions must not be close to the hope it comes. But you chose a man who was the head of the National Intelligence Service, a judge, to solve matters in justice. What's the message? Why did you do it? A system you wanted to take with it and not transparency, of course. We have also said that the judges - and we propose it - will be retired, retired, retired or whatever is not able to engage in political positions, to cut off the umbilical cord of politics with justice. So there are solutions, ladies and gentlemen, as long as we do not always return to the past, the marked, mark and often doomed past. The future wants boldness, he wants knowledge, he wants a plan. To say this with a phrase, the future wants us to leave the party democracy of the bazaars and go to an open democracy with transparency and dignity everywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much Mr Theodorakis. The President of the Group of Independent Greeks, Mr Panagiotis Kammenos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by replying to Mr Theodorakis, who implied that the Independent Greeks had financed and paid for the mud against him. Mr. Theodorakis, we didn't have to pay anyone for the mud against you. You were the one who was photographing with Mr. Simitis and you were Mr. Papantoniou's best friend. And in your reports, as a journalist, you praised Mr. Simitis. I don't think that's false. However, because you referred to various sites two months ago by the Telecommunications Authority - due to our protagon.gr trial - I asked to give me the owner of the site. He gave me your name. The protagon.gr, therefore, Mr Theodorakis - to remind you where it is financed - was financed with other websites from the defendant in the case of the Postal Treasury, Mr Grivevas. I'm filing it in the House. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's also look at CEDEFOP, let's also look at HEDAP, let's see who the protagon.gr was funded, Mr. Theodorakis. But let us look at the seriousness of this day. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning I opened my archives for the 'SIEMENS' debate, as well as my parliamentary control as a member of the New Democracy since 1993. I also got the records of the New Democracy Documentation Directorate from 1993 to 2009, which I have here. The conflict of some who, if you like, constituted the yeast of the New Democracy, the old New Democracy with the conflict, even before Mr Samaras's subordinates and the extremes mentioned by Constantine Karamanlis become Vice-Presidents of the party. So I will begin today with what the Prime Minister said, that we are not holding any of us. Who's holding you? I will not use the government's means or the government-friendly or journalists who are in SYRIZA or the Independent Greeks. I'm going to use the websites belonging to New Democracy party executives. Today, then, antinews.gr - which belongs to Mr. Panagiotis Zesis, son of the late Vassilis Zesi, close to Mr. Samaras - the site which supported the government of Samaras - Venizelos and Mr. Samaras personally until today - and continues to support him - and which supported the candidacy of Mr.Adoni Georgiadis until he retired and supported Kyriakos Mitsotakis by exchanging this support with the position of Vice-President of the New Democracy, is what he is currently attacking the President of the New Democracy. The title of the post is "Convergence in the House for scandals: My Alexis, My Lady...". It does not say anything about 'My Alexis', of course, because there is nowhere in research on 'SIEMENS'. But for my "My Lord" he says a lot. He says things that I too - because I do not think that political controversy can go to personal data - I would not say to the House. This is on Mr. Samara's site. Today, here in the House there are MPs who are in his surroundings. So what exactly does he say in it? He says today that Mr Mitsotakis will say 'No, I know nothing about the 'SIEMENS' scandal. Only a few telephone centres and computers I got from Christoforikos, and I paid for them, after the scandal was presented in Greece, or he will tell him to ask his sister Dora who had more close relations with Christoforkos - always friendly - or also Constantino Mitsotakis' father, who had the courage of former "SIEMENS HELLAS" officials to invite him by letter to intervene, when he was a Prime Minister, to solve the problem with OTE. In fact, Mr Samaras' site is posting a letter to the then Prime Minister Konstantinos Mitsotakis, signed by George, on the subject of 'Customising an International OTE Contest of a million thousand digital benefits', which says: 'Mr. Prime Minister, on this major subject that is particularly concerned with us as the domestic telecommunications industry and following the disappointment of the Minister of National Economy, Mr. Stefano Manos, we now consider your personal intervention necessary'. And concludes: "Accordings we send you our reply from 27-8-93 to the Minister of National Economy, and please once again take care of them". I'm filing it in the House. This is uploaded in the corruption debate today by Mr. Antonis Samaras' site, the site that supported your Vice-President, Mr. Mitsotakis. It continues and deposits all the benefits of your office. She tables your meetings with Mr. Christoforikos, Mrs. Bakoyannis, the trips, the complaints of Kutchenroiter about what the parties were getting at the time. It also proceeds with the title: "The holy family" and includes you in everything. That's all on the site Mr. Antonis Samaras controls, Mr. Mitsotakis. That's why the Prime Minister told you that we're no one's holding us. You're still being held through your party. They are imposing on you Vice-President and now they are imposing their line on you. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Because you're going to tell me, "But, well, he wrote this one site," to remind you of another post, the newspaper published by the MP's father, chosen by Mr. Samaras to bring Mr. Psycharis to the House? Then it was the period that, apparently, they wanted to wipe you out of New Democracy and Mr. Samaras used Mr. Psycharis as a pistol. What, then, then, did the specific post of the Doll newspaper, which then made Mr Samaras' son a MP? He mentioned that Mr. Christoforkos actually gave you a house on Tinos. He got a 600,000 euro loan and got it with 60,000 euros the same, the hostage. I'll give it to you so you can remember it. [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Remember that your personal assault is made by executives you still allow to be in New Democracy, altering New Democracy and following the path that Samaras and Venizelos have taken. But my two clients aren't here today. Neither Mr Samaras nor Mr Venizelos have come here to discuss the conflict. Doesn't it surprise you why he's not here? Mr. Venizelos is the natural leader of PASOK. It is essentially the one that leads Mrs Gennimata to her political movements. Why didn't he come here? I'll explain later. She didn't come here because the last time she came, she was screaming underneath, when I was talking, "fucking bump." I was the "alitabouros", when I asked if there were shares of the Veopoulou group in his family environment. I was a punk then, because the persecution for Vegeopopoulos had not yet come out. So now, Mr Venizelo, from where you hear us from from above, who is the 'fucking bump'? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Tell us, how did the 114 million of the exhibition of the Bank of Greece come out of the case-file? The four Bakacells shareholders - I, the "whispered" ask you - are your relatives or are they not your relatives? But now that the prosecution's out, you've gone, Mr. Venizelo. You left because I would ask you the other question, what I said and kindly disproved in 'SKAI'. Were you at the Kalogerica's house, when you suggested that I go into the government and when you then asked that the Independent Greeks not to cooperate with SYRIZA? But the Independent Greeks, Mr. Venizelos and Mr. Samaras, we are no-one's subordinates, we have not even taken 1 euro from any bank and never hold us. I expected Mr Mitsotakis today to come and talk about "SIEMENS" and to end this story and say his own view, beyond the relationship between his personal and his close relationship with Mr Christoforikos. All he answered about this was that this government has delayed sending the translation to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But who's been delayed? Did a head of the Attorney's Attorney's Office, called Doyakos, delayed? The well-known Doyakos! Did you call him "Panathenamics"? I don't remember exactly. The well-known Doyakos, who is currently being persecuted disciplinaryly, precisely because he has delayed sending the translation, as he has done in other serious procedural proceedings. Whose friend Doyakos was? What did he do in the Haikalis case? It is not just a matter of politics and business, it is also a matter of people of power. Since 1999, since the black period of Simitis, we have brought to light all the black transactions of Chohatzopoulos, Liakunacus, Papantoniou, while the scandals then took form and bones and flesh, not after a celebration, as some people did, but from the first moment. At that time, the media instead of standing up for their institutional roles, me and colleagues who are not MPs today, such as Spiliotopoulos and other colleagues who paid the price that we were confronted with those who were speaking and are not Members today because they were cut off. These scandals, therefore, instead of getting out in the newspapers of the interests involved, the newspapers became "strengths" against us. Forty articles slanderously by DOL in "BIMA" and "NEA" were convicted as slanderous by the court finalist and then sentenced to a compensation payment of 300,000 euros. I didn't get it. I didn't get it then. I did not take them because I thought that only publication on the first page would be justified. But then they continued again, regardless of the court ruling. When I took off the issue of Chohazopoulou on submarines, which of course spoke to the committee of inquiry of things and the responsibilities of the next, Papantoniou and all those who continued the contracts, when I spoke about the Post Bank and the involvement of the Papandreou family, when I spoke about the CDS, I received the most severe attack that could be taken by a Greek politician. When I went to Mr. Samaras on the CDS case, do you know what he told me? "I, George, don't beat him. He is my friend." I say to him: 'But this is where the country is betrayed. They've bet the country's bankrupt. Consider a possible involvement of his family’. And the answer was: "We're going to drive you crazy. Do not go on with the case." It was the case that I worked with the late Aristotle Bugatsu who left with this complaint. The CEDEFOP scandal, the millions given to journalists and media, while public health collapsed. They advertised cancer as a sticky disease. After a match, I found the evidence and delivered it to the institution, the ESA. Nowhere in the press. The Jubber of malicious and slandering publications began at my expense, by those who plucked public money. Five hundred thousand. Seven hundred thousand. What they wrote. I gave it as I had a duty to serve the public interest. Prosecutors came in. They've been persecuting public abusers. Subsequently, Islam for the complication, even when it was revealed that findings of the IMO had disappeared and the case involved resounding names of political journalism. Today the defendant's wages continue to be targeted and threatened. But they don't understand that their turn is coming. I speak with names, as the Prime Minister said. I heard the word "Goodness." I'll tell you this: He's my best man, yes. You know, he claimed to have helped his best man financially, to make two sites, one defensive site, onalert.gr and the newsit.gr. I've been talking about the journalist, Mr. Evangelatos, with whom we were friends, but since the CDC was published, he has declared the war to me. I submit to the House, to have all the posts of Onalert.gr with personal attacks on me. [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The remodel came the Prime Minister upstairs to leave. I forgot to call the House Committee. Short joke the frontier allowance. Personal attacks at all levels. They came to the point - when the heroes came to Tatoi the first day before yesterday, the fifteen comets and the pilot after forty-two years - and it is mutually acceptable to everyone - not to mention my name in the report. The Greek Minister of National Defence, the Minister of National Defence of Cyprus and the former Deputy Minister of Defence Mr. Davakis. That's a cheap war. This site, of course, like the newsit.gr that I present all these aggressive articles against me, is Mr. Evangelatos, the best man of Mr. Kalogris, who himself claims to be behind and financially helped make the site. [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] They'll investigate this because you asked me the names of the sites. We hear something else about it, and I don't think we need to see it any more. I want to remind you what GPO gave to the last elections. GPO is the property of Mr. Kalogritsa with a partner of Mr. Theodorikos, who is currently advisor to Mr. Mitsotakis and remains his partner, to see where he is charged with Kalogritsa. The difference, to remind you, was 35.46% of SYRIZA and 28.09% of New Democracy, 7.5% of them. GPO for the MEGA television station on 2/9 the difference to 0.3%. On 11/9, the difference to 0,2% is reduced. On 18/9 - there can't be humiliated - the difference goes to 2%. The difference was then 7.5%. Last count taken for the 5th of July referendum. "Yes" 44.1% and "No" 43.7%. In front of the referendum, in front of the measurement of the GPO by Mr Theodorikos and Mr Kalogrisa was 'Yes' and 'No' was 0.4% away from 24%. This is our difference in relations between even the one you chose to charge us as our candidate, with the real relationships you have. Ladies and gentlemen, the same was the case with the Bank of Attica, which was transformed together with the EMCDDA into a man for payment of executioners, journalists and canals. They shared public money in media and journalists to exterminate political opponents. Today that the gang was brought to justice, instead of silence, they also ask for the change with newspapers of five hundred cards, with a site condemned by ministers for slandering and arresting and still paying them. We could interact in person with the complexion to secure my political career. But I did not, because I could not be present today in the House, and I could not denounce the Chohatzopoulos, the Papantoniou and their 'ordinajs' and the 'high priest', Mr Simitis. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have the right hand of Mr. Tsohatzopoulou, Mr. Economou. Didn't you know it was Mr. Chohatzopoulos' right hand? Are you accusing this government of cooperating with the evil PASOK when you have a Member of Parliament with the right hand of Chohatzopoulos? That's the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u75	He's an elected MP.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u76	Elected Member, I have no objections, it has turned all parties, but it is your own Member. You blame the government for cooperating...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u77	I...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u78	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Economou, we've known each other for many years. Were you Mr. Chohatzopoulos' partner or weren't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u80	You're the last person to talk to about me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Economou, then! [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please. Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u82	Of course, all those who collaborated appeared as party leaders. Mr Venizelos, Mr Samaras' political partner, who gave immunity to the Germans of the submarines. At the same time, Munich was launched to investigate the Housing Scandinavia. Because it is a small world, I am presenting to the House Mrs Bakoyannis' speech on the subject of submarines, which admits that it is no doubt that it is a shitty scandal of corruption and corruption, which has all the elements of the interactive policy, business, business, mediators, adolescents and individuals who rise up in the field of armaments. That's the Munich Public Prosecutor's conclusion and it says it clearly with a name. It is also reflected in the systematic research carried out within and outside the country. It also results from the findings. Dora Bakoyannis, when we did our research on the submarines. [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panagiotis Kammenos presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Because I see old Members of the New Democracy here present today, I ask them: Do you remember these two files? These are the two files that the New Democracy documentation department did on the submarine case. Those who then came here to give forgiveness to your vote, so that you wouldn't ruin the marriage with Mr. Venizelos. So the yard is being transferred to Mr. Safa and the two Venizelos submarines cost 100 million more, namely those of Chohazopoulou, which is already in prison. How's Mr. Venizelos? Votes with Mr. Papaconstantinou, the Greek justice condemned by Mr. Papaconstantinou, a law to escape his responsibilities and save foreigners, who have damaged the Greek State. Who are forced to vote? Under the threat of the deletion of Mr Samaras, the New Democracy. Marios Ice comes and asks for his immunity to be lifted along with Papaconstantinou for this great scandal. At that time, Mr. Charalambos Athanasios - the Minister of Mr. Samaras, Mr. Birbus, Mr. Liberopoulos, Mr. Asmakopoulou - puts the case in the drawer and raises it one day before Samaras shuts down the House to get away from his partner. They also made night amendments to release the shipyarders. It's all recorded in the Minutes. So today, Safa requires the Greek State 1 billion euros from this sinful Venizelos convention, and we are talking about Safa, the Vice President of the "MIG" of Vinopoulou, which Mr Venizelos supported with such rabies. He is the one who asked him, as I said before, his family and called me "funny burrow" in the House. This is where other questions are born. How did the officials of Mr. Vegeopoulos in Cyprus meet with members of the Independent Greeks a few days before they decided they wanted to leave the movement and move on to apostasy? What is Mr. Vegeopoulos' relationship with Mr. Athos Syranidis? His representative was in Cyprus, representative of Vgenopoulos. The means have been silent here again. Rabies is trying to hide the days and works of Ms. Tsatani, who was disciplinaryly punished, while the delegation of the case-file which she herself filed leads to new malicious statements. Of course, one of the things that should concern us and will concern us with a committee of inquiry soon, is that of MARFIN, with a loss of EUR 114 million in a document that was subsequently taken. How's Mrs. Tsatani? He copys a quote from the indicted Mr. Cooker's record in order to file the case. Today everything comes to light. This proves that justice now works without fear and without political purposes, while in the past a prime minister's word was enough to cover even attempts to buy MPs. There is a court president who denounced that she was summoned to the Areo Ice in order not to charge a large civil court fine in treatment for slandering defamation I had testified. He denounced it, and they kicked it off. That is the intervention you have made in justice. The other partners of interlocutory that were a group of bad judiciaries who did not honour their oath are those who in the time of Mr Samaras left them to "flame" wanted today, such as Metaxas or Lynos, who notable manages "black" political money from hatreds. The names of Lyginus and Metaxas have been deposited as a representative of the New Democracy in the Committee of Inquiry into the House for the 'SIEMENS'. I don't see Mr. Javarra here. We were looking for them with Mr. Javarra back then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u83	It's in the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u84	Is it in the Council of Europe? Don't you want to talk about Mr. Lightning? Don't you know what Mr. Lynnos and Mr. Metaxas did?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u85	I answer you for Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u86	It's in the Council of Europe, too. I thought Mr Metaxas and Mr Lynnos knew they went to the Council of Europe. That would be new.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u87	No, the misunderstanding is clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Lynnos and Mr. Metaxas are therefore listed in the finding. Do you know why they are not contained in the New Democracy conclusion? Because Mr. Samaras asked that those names should not be entered and I had to present a separate finding. This Committee of Inquiry paid compensation for the Greek State 2 billion euros and then the Government of Samaras - Venizelos went and compromised. It was concurd with a vote in the House, and even the compromise he made, Mr Mitsotakis told us that the government did not respect him. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is prepared to give us an answer on this matter. SIEMENS is to pay, it is not the Government. With the electronics of the submarines who were overpriced and shared hatreds to hide Liakunakos, the "RHEINMETTAL", with the electronics of Leopard, who are for the first time called upon to pay colossal compensation, while the role of Papantoniou is being explored. Dermitjian, who filed the 25 million in a Pulkler Lebanese company, sponsored by Mr. Strander and other German politicians, but his accounts were never opened, because he made the Munich conciliation, while he has proved that he took money from Mandato, the Mandado who some people tried to flee, recognizing reciprocated in Germany, thus acquitting Christophogue. That is what we prevented, gentlemen, as government. Faces like the Slavon of UBS, who Samaras placed in the seat of the President of the Financial Stability Fund - and then I charge Mr Mitsotakis, not the past - Mr Mitsotakis took him and put him as his advisor on development issues. Slavonis is involved in a huge tax evasion scandal discovered by FINANCIAL TIMES and is based on a cd purchased by the German authorities in 2012. So Mr. Slavonis, Mr. Samaras, Mr. Mitsotakis knew very well what they were doing. Soon the Greek people will know why they did it. Because in a few days' time there will be rapid developments. They will, I believe, lead to a new examination. Their courage, however, derives from the certainness that the means of interlocutory would never reveal their unlawful actions. Instead, they acted as blackmailers, against politicians who dared to stand up and demand clearance. That's what we lived on, slandering, persecution. You killed my father, humiliating him in his eighty-six years. He was acquitted by the ILO in an investigation that took place, but left cancer, a man who never gave up his eighty-six years to go not into research, not in court, but not to blame him for a man who had traded with him. Because that's how you became PASOK lawyers and executioners, anyone who dares to speak. Now the political coverage is over and the bill comes, because this government needs neither farthers nor "pistols" nor buttons or pimps. That is why there is a will not to remain unavoidable. Now we're going to the intercept case, conspiracy for some.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u89	Please hang up, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u90	Two minutes, Mr President, I'm closing. This dark approach is similar to the disastrous Simitis contracts, especially the C4I. When we denounced the best friend then of the Papandreou brothers, Mr. Trepeklis, for the legal provision of 6.5 million for the system that never worked, some of them hagiographed him in the middle of the interplay. When the 1910s exam on "SIEMENS" revealed that there was no active warrant for Christoforikos on the issue of the C4I, a warrant that the Munich prosecutor said he would accept and execute, they called me a conspiracy conspiracy, as today, the ordinans of the interlocutory, the same ones who are accusing me today. Of course, it is time for justice to enter the case, to finally learn how some people live in well-known political families who no longer have a presence in Parliament. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing again and again.]] Some politicians, ladies and gentlemen, we are not goldfish. Goldfish is not the citizens, either. I am thinking of you, Mr Mitsotakis, who have come here today to talk about strife, at the same time that the canalarchs, who blamed your own father for money, are supporting you. Open the site kourdistoportocali.com, see the Alfouzou interview when it talked about the $600,000 in "MayO" and then the check for the 1 million, to see, exactly how extortion is. Be sure that when there are such checks and such transfers. There'll be blackmail. We are a government from two different political spaces and parties. But we have a common one, which will unite us to the end and will also make this four-year period and the next four years. Nobody keeps us, we're not threatened by anyone, we're not blackmailed by anyone. I call on those who understand the national need to end the Transmigration and those who understand, from New Democracy, that the New Democracy cannot continue to be the PASOK Patterica and to cover what your old colleagues have fought for, so that there are no more blackmailers or blackmailers in our country. That's the complication.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u91	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u93	Don't I see? Sit down, there's no question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u94	I'm gonna stand up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u95	Calm down, you'll hear it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u96	I'm calm.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u97	They will be given the floor on staff of eight colleagues, as long as he closes...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u98	We'll start from here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u99	The way we start, I'll say it. Sit down, Mr. Economou. Please. You're not writing anything in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u100	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Economou, nothing is lost. It hasn't been lost for so many years. Sit down, please. [[Applause]] This is where I tried...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u102	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u103	You want to hear me? You're gonna talk, but do you want to hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u104	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u105	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Sit down, I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u106	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Economou, you're upset. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u108	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Economou!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u110	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u111	I repeat that nothing is written in the Minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u112	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Economou, and your right to lose, and why you won't get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u114	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u115	And your right to lose by shouting and you won't get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u116	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, the floor is given immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u118	Please to the stenographers, nothing will be written than Mr. Economou said. Mr. Athanasios, sit down so that you do not get the same treatment. (Noise in the Chamber)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u119	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u120	Because there is a lot of sensitivity in the Chamber or you will let me run the procedure or we will not go well. All the effort that has been made and done is not to interrupt the debate, which is pre-dated at the level of parties leaders. From the start, then, there have been issues for eight colleagues, whom I shall name and who then...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, read Rule 68. Immediately afterwards, the law says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u122	Please, Mr. Athanasios! Leave it so sensitive, calm down. After the end...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u123	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Economou, you will force me not to give you any reason at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u125	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u126	After the first cycle, the President is Mr Leventis and are the two ministers, Mr. Papapas and Mr. Papagelopoulos, then they have asked and are entitled to take the floor if they so wish, on the occasion of and in the debate that took place, Mr. Flamouraris, Mr. Stathakis, Mr. Spirtzis, Mr. Loverdes, Mrs. Gerovasilis, Mr. Moussalas, Mr. Economou and Mr. Athanasios. In turn for all these colleagues...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u127	Mr. President, I too...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u129	What will the world know? Will he be watching for 15 hours?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u130	Read Article 68. It's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u131	Wait a minute. Will you listen? You didn't react when the Chief of Officer Response in a conversation that is...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u132	That is not what the Rules of Procedure say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u133	Wait a minute! Mr. Kikilia, why are you interrupting me? Please. Listen a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u134	There's a blockade. It's been ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Davakis, is there a blockade from me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u136	It would have ended the matter if the reason had been given then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u137	The Members who have asked for the floor and have not been given them are three hours ago. It's not just now. Mr. Davakis, perhaps you didn't notice... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please stop from here. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he would like to make a statement on the situation in the former Yugoslavia and on the situation in the former Yugoslavia and on the situation in the former Yugoslavia. It's okay. From the second speech - speaking at the edge of the speech - there have been references to colleagues, ministers or MPs, for example, about the 'before' ministers, and it has then been called upon to make nominal references and to take the floor on staff, as well as also to Mr Mouszala and to whom Mrs Gerovaci has in her office. All of these colleagues have recorded them, because otherwise the whole debate would be offended by a debate at the level of party leaders and they will be given the floor. Understand? Mr. Leventis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u138	Is that what the Rules of Procedure say? That's not what he's saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u139	Yeah. Mr. Kikilia...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u140	Eight people after 15 hours? That's not what the Rules of Procedure says!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u141	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Kikilia, I told you that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u143	Follow the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Kikilia, did I tell you that the Rules of Procedure say so? I'm the one who runs the conversation. Understand? Please do very much for the economy of the debate. You don't understand what I'm saying to you. Remind me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u145	You go into the Rules of Procedure of the House, like everyone else in this House. Since when does the President of Parliament not observe the Rules of Procedure and say it well? Since when?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u146	I am glad to say this because that is the way the debate should take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u147	You do not respect the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u148	You say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u149	She has the right to speak because she wants it, if she is on personal grounds. There is no such thing as the New Democracy, but not Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u150	That's right. Do you realize...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u151	The Minister has the right, the Minister, and whoever wants to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u152	Why are you episodeing? First of all, do not say it three times, because we understand the first. Sit down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u153	The President's job is to apply the Rules of Procedure! Read the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u154	Now you read the Rules of Procedure? Three hours ago, didn't you read him? Mercy, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u155	I am defending the Rules of Procedure, nothing else. You haven't even seen what color he's got, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u156	Don't give me that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u157	Please apply the Rules of Procedure, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u158	I understand nervousness and embarrassment. I don't understand... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please. I don't understand why you won't let me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u159	To complete the speaker cycle...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Kikilia, the first thing the President has to do at the meeting is...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u161	It is to apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u162	You won't tell me. Please. You're not in an amphitheater. Please very much. Don't interrupt me when I'm talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u163	I did not claim the amphitheatre, Mr President. Mr. Tsipras claimed it. Don't tell me about amphitheaters.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u164	What are you? I didn't get it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u165	The Prime Minister has claimed theater, not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u166	Don't give me that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u167	Don't tell me about amphitheaters, then. Recall this for the amphitheater.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u168	Remind me, Lord. Do you understand? That's why I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u169	Not to me for amphitheaters, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u170	You're nervous.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u171	Not to me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u172	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u173	This is a theatre, not a amphitheater.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u174	Keep...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u175	Okay. For eight or twenty is the meaning of it. The President of the Union of Central Banks, Mr Leventis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u176	They are also your colleagues who will not have the right to speak. But that is what the Rules of Procedure say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u177	Mr Kikilia, the Rules of Procedure must be observed in order to ensure the nature of the debate. So the nature of the debate today is for the day-to-day discussion at the level of party leaders. Because it is sensitive and delicate, it is obvious, it was sure that there would be issues. Already there are references to twelve persons. You realise that if there were a ping pong during the debate, it would be interrupted and undermined by the nature of the debate. So the Rules of Procedure are not a blinddog who turns on and closes bulbs. There's one mind, and all of us have our minds to guard his basic direction. That's what this is about. I gave you the explanation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u178	Do I have a right, Mr President, to answer what you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u179	I need a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u180	We don't co-chair. Allow me, we are not co-chairing!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u181	For a minute, Mr President, on staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u182	Let it go, President. Did you see what happened now? The president of a party is waiting for a quarter! What can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u183	Listen, Mr. President. The guardian of the Rules of Procedure is you, Mr President. No one else!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u184	Vasilis, you've been written! All right, Santa, you've played!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u185	The guardian of the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, and no one else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u186	That's why I'm telling you. I agree with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u187	Vasili, okay, Bogdan played you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u188	So if a colleague wishes to follow the Rules of Procedure and take the floor for a personal report, you must respect it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u189	I'm telling you, nine they wanted! Don't you understand what I'm saying to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u190	That's what I'm saying. Consider what I told you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u191	All right, all right, all right. The misunderstanding is resolved. Mr Leventis, if you'll excuse us very much for stopping the debate. Please come to Stepma. Those of the Members who have already spoken their names, after the ministers have spoken and before the abbreviations, will take the floor for a minute, be written in the Minutes and their position will be publicly cleared. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Leventis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the climate is escalating but not for a result. It's getting acidified here, so we can split up a little bit further. I do not know why we wanted this debate today, which the New Democracy has provoked in order to tackle the conflict, a party that owes money, as other parties owe money. So the review that's about loans from either media or parties, I don't know what makes any sense. These working hours lost by the MPs to study and come and humiliate the state with what is being said. That's the profit of politics. I will not have much time for the complexion, because the complexity is the tendency of the rich to have the House and their MPs and that will never stop. That's what I never see stop. So if at the moment a rich man calls a party leader and says: 'I give so many millions, put these MPs in' won't the other one? Who will have the moral courage to react? So these discussions rather towards the mockery of the world, which listens to us themselves, tend. I'll tell you something else more serious. In New York I saw Mr Anastasiades, President of Cyprus, and I said to him: 'Mr Anastasiades, how are your talks with the other side?' "I don't believe", I say to him, "to sign if the settlers don't leave and the occupation troops, because the Turks remain Turks, and that's what they expect, the inability of Greece or the need to close the issue and close it as they like." At that time he returned and looked at me with great concern, as if he confirmed that if the signature is in the form of it, neither the settlers nor the occupation troops will leave here in the Chamber sitting and he says to each other "poor", that "it was Tsohatopoulos" etc. We have historical responsibilities towards the people if we want to be serious. Many of us who enter the House do not account very much for what the world is sending us. He's not sending us to fight. It sends us, in order to be useful, ladies and gentlemen, and some have not understood. Some conserve the split. I'll tell you another grievance to everyone and to Tsipras. I spoke to an ambassador of a great state and said to him: 'You must help Skopje change a name'. He turned around, looked at me and said: 'Well, you don't know that both Karamanlis and Simitis and Mitsotakis and Tsipras agree on 'Nova Macedonia'? They have agreed to remain the word 'Macedonia'. I say: “If they did and agreed, they did not ask the people. No one agrees.' "You have a debt" he told me. "Then we recognized Macedonian, Skopje, feared the expansion of the war. We wanted to stabilise the situation in the Balkans." I say: 'Now where other dangers are, have they gone down, Syria, etc., why do you not restore the name? To give them some other consideration, to leave the "Macedonia" that desecrate it. He looked at me and said: 'But you must consult the political parties, because others have accepted 'Nova Macedonia'. Here is a nice conversation much more useful to the present. Everybody take responsibility for what they believe in Macedonia's name. If they think about giving it, because the father of the current Head of the New Democracy had said: "Let's give it and in ten years we'll be done." Does the son think so? Does Mr. Tsipras think so? Are the others mentioned by the ambassador in the same way or did the ambassador lie? So instead of dealing with these issues, you're concerned about who the Ordinancesa of Chochazopoulou was? There has been an issue of polling. What's that about? I was in Thessaloniki before the September elections, about June, I suppose 2015, and before me on a channel someone was talking to a polling company. Not to mention the name. I took him out, and said to him: 'Six percent of the Central Association in Macedonia did not you say so?' In January, that is, because in January the Centroon Union had received 1.8% in Macedonia as well as 6%. So I asked him: “Have you not seen it? Because I noticed all polls and said nothing." He says, "I had spotted the bubble, the vacuum. I said it down because I am sub-contracting Athens companies. They didn't want to hear. Even in the questionnaire, the Centro Association did not then enter.’ Do you hear that? I now look at the polls, this gentleman himself had done what he had done in September. In September he said: "Previous voting for 1.5 units ahead of Meimarakis. Evaluate the vote at 1.5 point in front of Tsipras. This man didn't find the eight units that Tsipras had overdue and he took off on September 18, this poll. I printed her on his website. The Centro Association had it 2.2% in the intention of voting. That's good for me. He said, of course, he has a dynamic to get up to 3%. But when the citizen saw such a poll, he realized that the Centro Association did not enter the House, when you gave on 18/9 a 2.5% rate. I don't remember if it's 2.2% or 2%. That's what I have to say about polling. It's a serious matter. Since some people have raised the polls in compass, we must all agree to do something in this Chamber, unless you want us to be unemployed and not to do anything at all but say air. So let us make an independent authority and every one that has a polling company there, such as abroad, studies, measurements, everything. There should be scientists analysts to analyse if the survey is true and not be able to say: 'yes' so much of 'no' precedent. I didn't see any of them do it. There were polls in September that were coming out in front of New Democracy. They want these people to respect their measurements, which is definitely a morbid situation. This issue needs to be resolved. Do you have a company, sir? You'll testify to the independent authority with the measurements, give the samples, the phones or the papers, the ballots you've received, and some scientists with state now, as a matter of fact, can check whether you're serious or not. Because I was also in America talking to a senator and the newsit.gr I was reading, she had in one survey of Bridgeging Europe - what she was called - to lead Tsipras five units and the other poll on 'OPINION' to lead Mitsotakis. Do you know what the senator came back and told me? He gave me a strong phrase that I can't mention in the Chamber. Well, she needs serious. Instead of showing seriousness and making suggestions, you're all korunks, intercategories, cohort fights, and you think the world is so stupid, to accept all this. No longer is the world immature, as it used to be. The world sees you going to fantasize him, and you lose him. Already 45% of all polls say they're not with anyone. They reject the whole political system. Here we have a poll on 18-12-2015, which says that 41% of SYRIZA fans and 67% of New Democracy fans want universal government. I'm filing it. It's 18-12-2015. [[Mr Vassilis Leventis, President of the Union of Centres Mr Vassilis Leventis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned survey, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have another poll, on 26-2-2016, when New Democracy Chief of State, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who poll says that 64.7% of the electorate, wants universality. But something else is happening. After that date, 26-2-2016, no polling company measured the solution of the global how many want it. What's going on? It should not, in one measure, say "those who want SYRIZA, so many New Democracy, so many of them, should also look at the issue of universality". What made the pollsters all silence? No one's counting for a joint acceptance government solution. So what did Mitsotakis bring into our lives? He has now rejected the consensus and forced Tsipras to do the same. All the effort of mere analogy went to lose, because the effort of mere analogy was an effort to reach consensus. I, at least, saw her that way. I was serving Alexandros Papanastassiou, who said that "a state without simple analogues is not a democratic state". That's what I served. Now I see that an acid Mitsotakis also forces Tsipras as a snail to enter his crab and become equally acidic and to return to days of splitting and bipartism. I'm glad he hears it in person, but from his office, I imagine, he'd hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u193	He came to honor you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u194	I wouldn't have misunderstood him, like I wouldn't have misunderstood Mr. Mitsotakis, because I know he's watching from his office. I'm fine with it. I just analogous - ladies and gentlemen, to make a confession - had it from a child in my life. I've had it since I was young. I believe that since '81, if PASOK had kept its word and established it - in '81, Andreas Papandreou, who was a strong politician - then we would have gone to allied governments, we would have saved the scandals, we would have saved a lot of things, there would have been control. We are now asking, with independent authorities and institutions and 'from where you were,' to check on thieves. In the process of not stealing, we're not in. The only procedure is simply proportional and coalition governments. This creates mutual control, and what is this House trying to do here? He lets them steal, and then he comes in and finds them. But thieves usually don't leave traces, ladies and gentlemen. I have long called for the pensions of former Members to be stopped. Why are we maintaining these pensions? Some, he says, have no other resources. So the congressman's office is a profession? Why should some Members be retired? They didn't have another profession in their lives? Were they professional MPs all their lives? My proposal is to abolish the pensions of former Members. I see a gentleman smiles, okay, because he's not cut, he's not paying. But citizens pay for it, dear sir, you laugh, which I don't know your name. Citizens pay this money and the citizens have to respect you! Anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u195	Please don't address yourself personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u196	The Prime Minister's talking about the debt. This is where I want to explain. You're wrong, Mr. Tsipras. First we will arrive in 2018, first we will fulfil all the prerequisites and obligations, and then we will regulate the debts. If you wait now, as you say until the end of the year debt arrangement, because I happen to know the views of creditors, you are mistaken and will be deceived second time, because you usually when you fall out, you use the word "defraud" and it does not suit a Prime Minister to be deceived on a permanent basis. Debt will be regulated, when Greece has fulfilled all the prerequisites and has completed the reforms and then it will be the right to claim debt regulation. Don't wait, Mr. SYRIZA MPs, if you vote hard laws based on this that you will quickly get a debt reduction, don't expect it. We are keeping the debate we are having here, and the tapes are being saved, and everyone's views are being saved. I say this as a warning to this House and to the Prime Minister. On the subject of religion, because it raises the subject of religion and is constantly coming back with statements by the Minister of Education, Mr. Friend, I now ask: at the time we have a hungry people in front of us, a people who are unhappy, this is the huge issue that must be solved in any case and our religion must become religion, the lesson of Religious and something else. Please, Prime Minister, although you take into account my words, make your Minister back and stop or stop if he cannot. It's my opinion. It is of no interest to you personally to appear, namely, as a persecutor of religion, which I know you are not. You're going to be charged, in other words, with a prosecution. Religion may have made many mistakes. But we need to do religion, if you like, to put on metropolitan people’s councils by lot, that is to say, every metropolitan city of fifteen people to control the economics of metropolitan city. To sign this, but not to take out the Religious. Do you hear that? Please, if you intend to control the finances of the Church, the Centro Association will be in agreement, because I, too, suspect some mismanagement. But if you're going to reduce Religiouss, our generation with Religious Religiouss grew up and lost nothing, Mr. Tsipras. I am sixty-five years old, I have lost nothing with Religious and neither other religions have told me'stuff it out, you are not a nice country, what are you doing' because they know that the majority religion is Orthodox and they know how much this religion has contributed to liberating this nation and being here today. For television licences, my view is that you should not close any stations. It's my opinion, not to support canals. If they close, they'll close otherwise. Set rules, set up the ERR, put pluralism rules, pay their insurance, pay the employees, and within 60 days whoever doesn't pays, lose the license. But to lose the licence by not complying with the rules of the state, not losing the licence from the government. That'll sound bad out there. I therefore submit a request. Let them all work. Get those others to pay for the same things that others paid, on average, to pay 1/3. Set up the ERR and set up tough rules. Be assured that some will close, but then when they close, you will have all the people with you, that they are shutting down by not complying with the laws of the state. And now he starts asking me: Why four permits? What happened? Really-- he says-- will Tsipras shut down the stations? What do I answer? I want to be honest. "I can't imagine," I say. That's my answer. I do not see, in other words, the country being saved, nor do I see that those who took leave are better than the old ones, to say that we have hit the complexion. That's my opinion. Listen to her, you won't lose. Do you want me to tell you something? If you listen to the Central Association, even to one of the things it says, no matter how defensive to the government, you will benefit. While you don't listen to it at all, I see a slippery plane down. Mr. Tsipras said something about the judges' wages. After meeting them, he said the judges' wages would not be reduced. Why? The judges - whom we suspect, do I also have in my family judges - differ from other DNA? Is the employee's wage cut, the employee's wage cut, the job lost a million and a half people, and the judges shouldn't lose anything? Do they have to take all the decisions that restore them? It's not nice. That sounds like a lick to the judges. It does not honor a Prime Minister to say in a class "you will not have any reductions". It's my view. When the state's finances are improved, I believe that the state's debt is now to restore all of them, whose wages have been cut. For red loans, my view is that we need to be more specific. We need to EUR 200,000 housing loans not to hurt them and not even to give them to funds. We also need to look seriously at another possibility. To buy the owners themselves, the debtors of their homes, at the price we would sell on the funds. Why, in other words, a English fund should take 20% of the total price of a home and not take it from the debtor? So the English fund is better than the beneficiary? So look at those who come within a couple of months to pay the same money as the funds, to get these people. We must consider this seriously, because people are dying right now and are dying of fear. I don't know how urging they are to go to get them, but there are people who are calling me and I'm trying to reassure them that there's no heart attack. When the other is unleashed and has children, you have a duty to examine - please, all and especially the Government - the possibility of buying the loans from the recipients at the price that the fund will get. The fund can't take it 20% and the beneficiary says "you'll get it 100%, and you'll drown it." This is not a state if that state is defending you. Let's go for a constitutional review. I have seen, to God, that I do not want to have an opposing view of the reputation of these people - but I have not seen the people of prestige that I have expected to see frame the committee. I also saw actors, I saw people, but I didn't believe these people would make the change. The Constitution at the moment, ladies and gentlemen, has a risk. If we review articles in the Constitution, the next House with a hundred and fifty Members can do whatever it wants. So, Tsipras can review the article on how to elect MPs, bonuses, all this and Mitsotakis with a hundred and fifty a day, make the bonus eighty, and where we talked, Mr. Tsipras, for a simple analogue, be trapped with a Mitsotakis and do the eighty bonus. Why am I afraid of it? Because Constantine Karamanlis, when he arrived in 1974, brought sixty - five bonuses. I don't know if I told you. Then you have something with the technocrats. You're telling the Prime Minister's face to be a congressman. Do you know in 2011 PASOK who proposed for Prime Minister? The Petsalnico. Could he, too, bear the weight of the Prime Minister? You'll tell me it turns out Papademos didn't make it. But you know why he didn't make it? Because he had an Adoi, he had all the PASOK. It wasn't a government that Papademos had to control with technocrats. He had all parties. He shouldn't have accepted. I, when I met Papademos, said to him: "You shouldn't have accepted with party parties, put you up to say you failed." At least the ministries, seven to eight, had to be technocrats, to be responsible. That's my opinion. I want to say something to Mr. Mitsotakis, who I know he's listening. A month and a half ago, there was a rebellion in our party, one who had him a spokesperson, who was a party employee, and badly said that the newspapers were a MP. And the man said he's leaving the Centroon Association because we're going with SYRIZA. And I went out and said that with SYRIZA I'll never go, but you'll see that he'll end up in New Democracy. New Democracy took him a month ago. So I have to suggest to Mr Mitsotakis that, because such translations are not very clear - because he said that he studied the programmes of all the parties and concluded that the best part of the New Democracy is what he said - to remember that his family is involved in large-scale transcripts. And it is no good that the resolution of the relocations should also be adopted by the son of Mitsotakis. I have also called for three hundred Members to become two hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, I would ask you to confuse your speech a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u198	Have I been through anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u199	A lot. You've been over six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u200	This is where the others were fighting for half an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u201	It wasn't half an hour. It was quite more than that. For all the rest, however, it was twenty - six to twenty - nine minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u202	Three hundred MPs become two hundred. This is a sign of the austerity of the political system. Why don't we do that? This is a reduction in costs. We're a state of how many millions? If you look at the population of other states and the number of Members of Parliament, you will see that it can be done. The Members' wages, I insist that we reduce him in half, even though many people look at me in the wrong eye. There's got to be an effort, Mr. Tsipras. Not ten percent that Mr. Voutsis had thought about. It's a serious matter. Do you know why? Because people eat from garbage, Mr. Tsipras. I don't do populism right now. I'll tell you something. It would restore the prestige of political life to a brave move, a brave percentage reduction in Members' wages. I have nothing more to add. Put that other poll inside. The polls, however, Mr Tsipras - I do not know if you were here - after 26-2-2016, have stopped looking at the global solution. He's not even on the question. The University of Macedonia had so much warmth to tell us that Mr. Mitsotakis is ahead of us with 12 and a half units and I wish everyone could vote for that. And once Mr Hatzinikolau had invited me - whom I love - to whom I had asked him, why is he a serious journalist, "when you make a survey to consider the solution of the universal world's acceptance rate?" For now we are only considering how much before Mr Mitsotakis and that is not of interest to him, because he is responsible for it. You know what? I do not agree with you that he is unconscious and does not give him responsibility. I think he's a young man, and if God leads him to the Prime Minister and makes it a mess, he won't be able to leave his house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u203	Thank you. The Minister of State has the floor, Mr. Nikos Pappas, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a stage where it has been undermined by reality by the muscular desire of the Officerial Anti-Policy for economic destruction, for the shortfall in revenue, for the redeployment of the economy towards the recession, and a war has escalated in the government on the part of the directly affected, the entrepreneurs. And the New Democracy, unfortunately, is more than happy to reproduce their criticism, many times - we must admit - with admirable speed, but in a perfectly predictable way. The story of interlocutory goes back to 1993, when Mr. Mitsotakis said that "Alfouzo is throwing me because he wants to get a television license with the stagnum". And in response to Mr Aristides Alfouzos, Mr. Aristides Alafouzos, interviewed "NEA" and published the checks he had given Mr. Mitsotakis, saying: "Mr. Mitsotakis kept asking me for money." That's how far back this story goes. Since then, the permit regime has simply been consolidated. It became permanent and permanent, opaque and in violation of the Constitution. Because the legislator, the two parties that legislated, did not dare to say that television stations are licensed. They said: ‘They have temporary legal status.’ The license never went ahead. There were fifteen such extensions 'before the basilopita', as we have many opportunities to mention. This reality should be a disgrace and not an opportunity to attack the government. Excuse me, it should be a disgrace. Why are these delays? To get one out on this step and say that they pushed us, these phones got up, so we were delayed and did not impose any voted-out taxes, the use of frequencies and the advertising tax, which this government charged and collected 60 million. They're digitised laws! They are, however, voted on in the old culture, that I will vote on it, but I will not apply it. Because the media competition also provided for other laws, even the Venizelos Act. The day before yesterday in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency beyond the vulnerabilities, we had Mr Venizelos saying that if he lived in his ministry for a while, there would be a competition for media. And suddenly we went back 20 years because this move took place. Obviously it wasn't for that reason. It was because the political system had opted for an alliance, which was - I would say - and heterogeneous in favour of interests, with these interests. Now some people are protesting and protesting through monothematic bulletins, with misguided attacks, personal targeting and many times with gross warfare, because they are losing these privileges. Anti-constitutional - says - the law. Yes, sir. I won't make any predictions. I will only say what the Council of State has said when it has been called upon to take a decision on the subject of television reality. It has said since 2010, firstly, that the reality of non-authorisation is unconstitutional. And as many times as - dozens - it has recently been called upon to give its opinion on the regulations and administrative acts of Law 4339, it has decided, by rejecting the safety measures of the channels, that there is a reason for public interest in the rapid completion of the competitive process. That's the reality. Let us put aside the charges of influence on justice. Here, in this Step was a little while ago the Chief of New Democracy and said twelve times L.4339, our law on television licenses, unconstitutional. What's that? Does that not prejudge a judgment of justice? Isn't that a pressure on the judges? Or don't you see it too, gentlemen of the New Democracy, the television pressure on the judges? You don't understand her, don't you smell her, do you not see this attack on the judges? In any case, I think that this New Democracy option is really a sad phenomenon for our democracy. They say the exclusive competence is at the National Broadcasting Council. Not to remind again of what has been eviscerated not on my face, but on the minister who would keep the portfolio that I have the honor and the burden of keeping. Anyone who was in my position would say the same thing about North Korea, junta, Georgia. I would remind the House that previous laws also had competence for the number of television stations at the level of the ministerial decision following the opinion of the National Broadcasting Council, of course, but a ministerial decision. For the first time the decision on the number of licences has gone to Parliament and Parliament has decided and the tender has therefore been made. But here, the New Democracy has fallen into a fundamental contradiction. It has two arguments, the number of licences and the competence. What's he saying? It must not be a question of government, and when the New Democracy comes it will give infinite permits. I do not understand when the New Democracy comes, will it not be the responsibility of the National Broadcasting Council to decide on the number of licences? No, it won't. In other words, the New Democracy eats that it will do something that it does not have the power to do if what it says is true. But what he says doesn't apply. We find any excuse at any stage to fight the contest. May I remind you of the Turkish canalarch? Who remembers the Turkish canalarch? Let me remind you of the screams that the whole question of the competition is that SKAI, the "SKAI" who first submitted a file, first got permission and first paid the dose. Then we had the Kalogrichiada and a few episodes of Savvides. In other words, such flexibility and adaptability really are deserving of admiration. Despite flexibility, there is a common denominator, namely, not to touch the hijacking regime. Because in Greece, ladies and gentlemen, we had hijacking, normal hijacking. The air of the country was robbed and imprisoned in economic and political circumstances, where this closed canalarchs club, which had been darkened to the status of temporary legal service, with a peculiar utility in television frequencies, managed to hand over the network of antennas. In other words, to become themselves, the closed club, their closed company as the only digital provider. How did they do that? A competition was built, which had suffocatingly long periods, with only one participant and had the clause, listen to - listen, if one is a participant, the competition is not a barren one, but a winner of the competition is declared at the starting price, i.e. 18 million for the whole spectrum for fifteen years. For the entire range of 18 million, for fifteen years! Of these, 6 million have been paid, and the next instalment is March 2017, because we need to make it easier than I understand. That's the reality. Do you understand what happened in Greece? Unfortunately, they have found the political system in a phase of total weakness and a transaction, for which I would like to say - and I address those who are wasting time on TV windows and within the National Representation to talk about everything that you had to do - there was no control of economic data. In this competition, someone with any origin of money could participate. That would be the competition in which any window would have been broken. We organised a competition which had parallel filters. The TV 'ART' was cut because it did not deposit the paradox, the TV station 'MEGA' was cut because it did not have banking information, the television station 'E' was cut because it did not bring the appropriate guarantee letter and Mr Kalogrisa's company was cut because he did not pay the first instalment in time, but the competition was not disturbed. And you know why? Because everything was planned and there was a list of participants. Thus, the downright participant was automatically replaced, the next one came and paid the price, and now we have received 90 million. I repeat, 90 million, i.e. four times more than the total price for the digital provider in the tender you have made. And I'm talking about the first dose. Look, 258 million plus 60 million of frequency charges and the advertising tax, collected so far, make us 310 million. Did we expect lovers and flowers from canalarchs or monothematics to depose us? Oh, no. I have heard many say 'it will be the same situation, the old are gone, the new ones are here'. Yeah, but there's a difference. Previous channel owners knew that they possessed this precious good because they managed to press the state on the neck. This time the state puts the rules and they should know them, that as they have been given permission, if they do not meet the conditions, they will be removed from them. It's just, clean and clean. I heard that we only care about the price. Who says that? Are there no regulations of the Constitution that impose equality on the presentation of views? Aren't there any arrangements in d.d. 109/2010, which require that there is no insulting of human dignity, not that racist and splitting messages are reproduced? Is there not Mr.4339 whose arrangements for the competition have also been passed by opposition parties, which we are very happy about? I mean, our law has lasting obligations for operating channels, for licensed channels, for the level of employment with four hundred full-time workers, for building infrastructure, for the necessary news packages, for technology equipment. They're permanent obligations, and they know that, and the new successful ones, who will be in a few days' time. Then the story started what we were doing, he says, us the contest to make our own canals. Apparently, do they mean Mr. Alafuzo? Mr. Marinakis? Mr. Sunday? Mr. Savvidis? Yes, sir. Of course, we've seen the vulnerabilities. You know what? The vulnerabilities are fragile. Good, news reports are being set up around some vulnerabilities. But we saw that the competition has collapsed, because someone went, says, in the toilet and someone else was there. And where you're thinking "can't" there are executives of the Officer's Response who make use of these - let's say - two-collapsible ends, which, in their despair, have been used by canalarchs' lawyers. You accuse us of having the contest, so that Calagritz would have taken the channel. And suddenly we don't even have to say anything! We come back now and say, "Wouldn't you like, you made it all, so that Calogrits would get a chance, but you didn't make it?" How convincing can that be? How convincing can it be from a party that has used any argument that human mind can conceive, just so that the contest is not made? You're saying you're going to remove Mr.4339. Yes, sir. To get back to what stadium? Will you give permission to whom and on what criteria? Who's there? The ones they were before? What exactly are you going to do? None of this stuff you say. And now we have the attacks from the contest failures. Mr. Vardinoyannis and Mr. Kontominas. So say what they did and what they did during the competition. With two companies of interest, Mr Vardinoyannis participated in the tender and the highest bid made by one or the other was 18 million. Is he entitled to be a volunteer? It's not right, I'm sorry. Or do we think the world does not understand and does not know that when it sees a television report, it is - unfortunately - the printing on the screen of defending the owner's interests and anything that has to do with informing it? Mr. Nearmenas. Mr. Kontomenis was not the same as Mr. Vardinoyannis, in the auction. His team was involved. At no time did it go to the final stage so that he could submit a bid. Who is to blame, who is to blame, who starts and disgraces us from the next and with theatres, that he has matters with his pension? So this is the practice and, unfortunately, we are now looking at workers. I want to send a message. There are solutions to protect jobs, and this government, if these solutions appear, will support them. There are solutions. What cannot be done, however, is for some to think that I love God will be the owners of a station, which holds a universal permit. For the first time, pan-Hellenic permits have been granted very specific rules. I was watching Mr Mitsotakis' speech from the mountains, and I confess with some surprise at first, but my surprise was taken away. He said a BSE study said he would lose the public at ten years 1.7 billion. Cargacioz's accounts. It is not BSE, however, and there is my surprise, because I assumed for the moment that Mr Mitsotakis has expanded his readings and that he does not just read the canaltars press releases. But it's not like that. Because in the study it has submitted in the Minutes - and I invite you to see it - BSE invokes the elements of the EMCDDA. So again: the union of canalarchs. In other words, he submitted a BSE study, which has two tables invoked by the canalarchs and told us as a BSE study here. That he will lose - he says - the Greek State 1.7 billion. The television industry had four thousand employees in 2009. He's come to have two thousand employees. He had a downward employment curve unstoppable and an exponentially rising debt curve. So, if this government were to sit on its eggs, it would in one or two years from now have totalitarian stations with a thousand workers and the debts approaching the 2 billion. Well, that's not a reality that could be accepted. It couldn't be accepted. You have understood, too, the opposition - and I am telling you sincerely - that the occupation of a television station means influence on all aspects of social and public life, and it is in the interests of our democracy to take the step and to come together to set up a National Television Council. The competition's over. You need to be reconciled with this reality. The first dose has been paid, we are going to the next phase and not to sue, listen - listen to the workers. To public officials, who, with self - disenchantment and the highest sense of responsibility, saw the millions pass over and were there. And they completed in a crystal clear way a competition that brought to the Greek public 258 million euros. And the Civic Opposition goes and sues them? It's a disgrace. This is a disgrace: Reflect the arguments of the canalarchs and the people who guaranteed the competition to sue. So, what kind of message do you send? What message do you send to public officials? That "look, you'll do your job, but when a mighty man is affected, there's a party that's gonna run you in court." Do something for your self-respect. Withdraw this lawsuit. Here is the political leadership, we have taken full responsibility at all levels. Accuse us as much as you want for anything you want. No problem at all. I've heard about Majuran as well. I really can't see what the reason is. Is defending the State at the lowest anticipated remuneration so far in the Council of State? Or is it the fact that Manjuranes had brought unpaid invoices to the light of the 'SIEMENS' for the call centres of Mr Mitsotakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u205	The Legal Council of the State, Minister,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u206	Because you are flying, Mr. Athanasios, I will tell you about the Legal Council of the State. The Legal Council of State, Mr Athanasios, made a statement to me, which I asked, because you also criticised the responsibilities of the National Broadcasting Council - that, from 16-10-2015, the PSE would not have a legal composition. What should we do? With this paper on the hands, which says that the National Broadcasting Council will not have a legal composition, will we have a competition that will carry out what ERR? The ERR that sent us letters and said that it is unable to rule on the number of licences? The ERR for which the Legal Council of the State said it would not have a legal composition?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u207	The defence of the public's interests is exercised by the Law Council of the State and exceptionally...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u208	We've been justified by developments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u209	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u210	I shall conclude, Mr President. I really believe it and because we're on the next day and things have gone their way I think we should sit down and see all the developments with coolness. And I am thinking above all of the Civic Opposition. See what mistakes have been made over the past twenty-seven years. You admit the mistakes you made in discussing this law. It will not be good for you either to have interests that feel like buttons and MPs are being pressed. This is not good for our democracy. Look at the last month press releases you've done. You should go a little further than what the channels have said, at any breakfast store from what they have been dealing with so far, and now they are dealing with television licences, with all these Persians who were in the show industry, and they were not - let us say - with some kind of political depth, and now they are also dealing with them. So look at them how they replicate. It gives me sorrow. I am not against political controversy. Become, and be a collision fierce, strong. But for reasons of self-respect, let's make a National Broadcasting Council. Realize the reality and don't come and say "we'll cancel the law and even give the money back". Will you tell fifteen thousand children who are at the children's 'go out' stations and four thousand people who will be hired to our hospitals that they should be fired? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u211	As you can see, I keep the time to make use of dentistry in its greatest part. That's true for everyone. Mr. Papagelopoulos, Deputy Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, has the floor. I would ask those who speak - I mean, beyond the Prime Minister and Mr Mitsotakis - to make a time management in a lesser range. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the Chief of Staff Response and Mr Theodorakis, who are absent at the moment, have had proposals for the first time. Only here they'll have to fight with their advisers. Of all these proposals made for justice by the government, most of them have been implemented and the rest of them are ready to be voted on. In my denture, if I have time, I shall refer in detail to the proposals made by the Chief of New Democracy and the Head of the River and to which we have implemented them. Before I raise the issue, I will try very discreetly - and I will explain why I will be discreet today - to refer to the current situation of justice as some people are trying to show it. I will be discreet because I intend to appeal to all of you for two things at the end of my speech: firstly, to try to ensure as much peace as possible in justice as possible, in order to carry out its work inevitably, and, secondly, to preach gloriously against corruption and interlocutory. Because the words are good, it's good to be chasing the government, but it's good to see what we can do. Before, then, I am talking about corruption and complexity, I would like to refer to the events of the last period and what some people are trying to show that they are happening to justice. First of all, I find it embarrassing what some have tried to say, that the visit of the Presidents of the three highest courts to the Prime Minister's office was a transaction because it concerned wage issues. On the previous occasion of the visit there is a statement from the three Presidents, which I read to you: "After the request of the Presidents of the Supreme Court, it will take place tomorrow..." - so one day before - "...meeting of the Prime Minister with the leadership of justice. Institutional issues will be discussed, in need of immediate resolution,... - I say again - institutional issues - "...covering vacant organic positions, etc., as well as the revision of the Constitution on the capital of judiciary (independence of judiciary officers, safeguarding wages, increasing the retirement age, etc.(')'. I put this in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr Dimitrios Papagelopoulos presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] An innocuous attack on the three presidents and against the government was therefore taken that this meeting was an attempt to trade. And we forget that in December 2012 the then Prime Minister had again accepted the presidents of the Supreme Courts, but only for wage matters and not for institutions such as today. Of course, at the time the cuts in the judges’ wages had begun, there was a great turbulence and this meeting took place. Because we're talking about a transaction, today I'm going to have the opportunity to mention Mr. Mitsotakis the pleasure of hearing his father's name several times. We're talking about transactions, then. So I would remind you that in a supreme court, I have said that I will be discreet I will mention neither names nor dates, but everyone will understand what I want to say - which, three months before he had become Vice-President - immediately screwed all the Vice-Presidents - and before becoming Vice-President, he was overtaken by eight advisors. Constantine Mitsotakis then said: "The choice of this is the most shameless transaction." Don't talk about transactions. To talk about other senior judges, and what happened in the past? Say, for a supreme judge who, for his promotion in a vice president, exceeded fifteen advisors? They did not have time to make him president, but he was rewarded and became Minister of Government Papademos. Say of another president whose characteristic name was "composer", why was he very good at cooking the compositions?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u213	Say names.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u214	Ask them to tell you. I said I was discreet today and I don't say names. I'm happy to say it another time. And I'm discreet because, as I told you, I'm going to call for a confession.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u215	Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u216	Mr. Athanasios, you have a flaw in interrupting. What are you trying to hide? Any guilt you're guilty of? We've gotten you happier now. Everyone knows about you. Don't provoke me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u217	You're very welcome. We don't have a conversation at the time of speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u218	Also, it became a very big specula...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u219	But can these things sound in here? Say the names.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u220	I can say infinite examples, but I keep them. It's good to have backup. I'll move on to other things, though. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u221	But is that possible now? It's a shame not to say names. We're talking about corruption, we're not talking about anything else. Say the names of the corrupt ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u222	Please don't interrupt the speaker. Please. Everyone manages the time and the way he speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u223	They all understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u224	I didn't understand. Say the names.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u225	Don't interrupt me. I'll say what I want to say. No one's ever sneezed me, and it's not gonna sneeze me now. However, let us also come to the statement by the President of the Council of State, who has become so great a spiral. What did he say? That justice must be disgusted by the people. Mrs Gennimatas, the President of PASOK, said what he said, Mr Venizelos spoke - I will find his exact phrase - about 'institutional terror', I think, so he called it. Mr. Venizelos is coming, so I'll repeat it. I said, Mr Venizelos, about the institutional horror you said about the statement by the President of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u226	Don't provoke, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u227	I do not challenge that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u228	Did the law have an effect on you too?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u229	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u230	Mr. Venizelo, don't respond to the challenges.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u231	I'm glad to see Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u232	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u233	Mr. Venizelos said an institutional horror. But Mrs Gennimata - with what she said in her speech - and Mr Venizelos - forgets in his statement that the founder of PASOK had said this about the Council of State, if I remember correctly when the framework law was discussed. You see, I'm old enough, and I remember that. I have a good memory for now. He said, then, then, the Chief and founder of PASOK: “There are people as well. The Council of State must know that.' Also, in his speech in Kosani, I remember that the late founder of PASOK "no institution, just the people". Were these institutional aberrations then, and are they now what the President of the Council of State said? [[Noise in the Chamber]] "The institutional horror that was provoked", as most intelligently written by MP Yiannis The Guardian in his article, "it is not a horror of the institutions, but it is a horror of the structures of power". I would like to add that this terror is growing because of the impending collapse of power systems that annul the Constitution and for the people resulting from powers. I will now come to the issue of interacting. I will say with as simple a word as I can what I feel after a year and a half Minister, about thirty years of prosecutor's office and much more of a citizen's years. I'll speak through my heart. Because, although I appreciate those who go according to the rules of cold - I would say - accessible logic, I always follow my heart's voice. A great deal has been written and said about corruption and complexity. Everyone is taking it down, everyone is bloody it, a lot of them are compromised and they are benefiting from it and few are fighting it. They've given her a number of names. Personally, in my various speeches in the House and in other events, I have called it "Gangrain", "carcinoma", "blocks", "Lerna Hydra" and so many others. Indeed, strife and corruption are all of them. But there's a lot else. But it is also a much more dangerous thing: it is a para-state, which offends the country's democratic state. Continuously and continuously attempts to alter it, disrupt it, deprive the House, the Government, the Prime Minister from the power conferred on them by the Constitution, or force them to carry out or omit acts resulting from it. I'm not saying that. It's the Criminal Code. Already, Umberto Echo had said: “They do not need armoured to destroy democracy. They only need television sets.’ Because many will think too much of what I am saying, I will mention a few examples from our country's modern history. For the economy of time, I won't go far back. I'm going after 1974, after the M.O. Here I'm going to fix Nikos Pappa, who said the story of interlocutory starts in 1993. It didn't start in 1993. I can say a few examples briefly just before. It was 1974 when Constantine Karamanlis returned. He looked at the danger and tried to hamper the immunity and corruption of the financial powerful. Then the condition had not yet been established. And then he was accused of being "socialist". I remind you of the younger people. Andreas Papandreou confronted "birth '89" and some are reproducing it now. We are not told, however, who were the protagonists of '89 dirty'. Wasn't the mighty publishers of that time and the later canalarchs? Aren't they the ones who then, when their interests imposed it, changed a line, simply confirming the para-state methods? Do we remember, then, the pages and the headlines of those newspapers, so that we can see what evil is doing in our country and in our democratic city? The paradox of interlocutory is not what he tried to imprison Dimitris Tsovola, the honest democrat fighter and finally managed to take him out of the country's political system, why didn't he control him? Has the paradox of corruption and interlocutory not thrown down the government of Constantine Mitsotakis in 1993? Let's not forget that Constantine Mitsotakis was the one who established the term "complexation". The methods, the faces, I won't tell, because I said today I'm gonna be modest. The para-state, then, is it not what, on the occasion of the "basic shareholder" has fought the government of Kostas Karamanlis? Should I remind you of some methods? Can I remind you of the tents outside of the Ministry at the time of the minister's office and today hold a senior post, a licensed tent outside the Ministry, which was filled with supposedly protesters at the news of 20: 00' on the channels? Do you want me to remind you more? The threats that were at the time, that if the introduction of the 'basic shareholder' goes ahead, will we lose the subsidy? This is what they went to say this year and now on the subject of the channels, only in 2009 came a decision of the European Courts which considered the 'basic shareholder' compatible with European law. But that's why the channels didn't tell us anything. Let's move on. Isn't it the parastate that took Giorgos Papandreou away from him when he thought he was useless anymore? So we don't forget. I could say too many examples. Isn't that a parastate party that did the big party in the eight-year period 1996-2004, the equipment program fair, the health fair? Who were protagonists at these fairs and who took advantage of them? Then we found the "we all ate" to create guilt to the Greek people. Hey, we didn't all eat it! Are only the Chohatzopoulos, Sbokos and Tsukatos responsible for these stories? This remulsion, this craving that led our country to violent poverty, where is it due? To the paratrooper! And we arrive in 2016. Indeed, today, the para-state is trying to exalt something similar to what I mentioned earlier. Only seasons have changed. History is repeated either as a tragedy or as a prank. I think I see her as a farce, especially if I think, supplementing what Nikos Pappas said, that we have counted even the urination of some unfortunate ones and the way he lifted his zipper to prove conspiracy. I wonder if he's more suspicious of the prostate and remains longer in the toilet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u234	Please, Minister, condense your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u235	I shall conclude, Mr President, although I have a great deal to say. At the same time, it is the para-state who prepares the restoration of the 'orphan' of modernism. And here too, Mrs Gennimata and Mr Mitsotakis must be careful: their recovery is at their expense. And in order not to leave outside the period before 1974, I will recall in July 1965, which a particular band took the lead in overthrowing the legitimately elected government of the Union Centre and how it changed immediately as soon as the people reacted. I could say too much. In the short time that I will have in my dentistry, I will make the appeal as soon as I can for the two issues that I have told you. However, I would like to submit two documents in the Minutes. It was inaccurately said that it was the government's fault that the resolution on ‘SIEMENS’ was not translated and that the trial was cancelled. It's not exactly like that. The trial has been postponed. Responsibilities are not burdening the government. I will not go into the responsibilities of judges because I have a sensitivity to my old colleagues, whom I appreciate and respect, as they appreciate me and they respect me in their overwhelming majority, and if you would like to do a well to ask. I will simply testify that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with enormous efforts, has succeeded within a month and a week before the postponed trial begins, to complete the translation of eight thousand pages. So the state did its duty to make SIEMENS' trial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u236	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Flamouraris has the floor for a minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u237	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u238	It's nine. That's why I told you, it was the economy of discussion, to have one unity. It didn't have to be the previous tension. Mr. Flambury, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to restore the truth, which, unfortunately, the Chief of Staff Representation has either deliberately ignored or really does not know about. You are all aware that there is a Commission "Never Eagles" of the House, which met. Members who make up her are seven. Only two of them are members of the government. The other shall be Judges and a representative of the New Democracy. This Committee of "Never Ends" found nothing to testify and record in my "subjects you had". So I hope and believe that the Chief of Police will withdraw what he said. I would like to conclude by saying that it is really regrettable that in such a debate, in a debate where the issue is corruption and corruption and the conflict, the arguments of the chief of Officerial Response should be so slim that he was forced to mention names whose issues have expired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr. Flambury. Mr. Stathakis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u241	I thought it would be a big list of Tsipras interacting! Finally, the only names I heard were mine and Flambury. The others were legislations with which we favored people. Indeed, we reincarnated teachers, cleaners and many other staff. It was a scandal that was avoided, apparently, not completed either because the opposition pressed or not. So the list is very shallow! And I imagine that because it was very shallow, that list I heard my name. The Chief of Staff Response must be directly placed, because the phrase 'the Flabourari - Stathakis case has been heard by the Committee on 'Never Exes' only by this wing. So I want him to tell us how a case has been covered in which the majority of them are judges. I have heard amazing words from Mr Mitsotakis about the independence of justice. Does it question the Commission's judicial status 'Where Ever'? Three judges, Deputy Governor of the Bank of Greece. They're suggesting, they decide. The rest are three Members of the two major parties. So the first thing is simple. Is the independence of Parliament's 'Where Ever' Commission questioned? Let the Chief of Staff tell us to change the institutions. Secondly, I would remind you that it has another problem, which I did not expect from Mr Mitsotakis. When my name was put in this story, the honorary President of the New Democracy and the father of the Chief of Staff, with a public statement, was put on my side and said there is no question at all. We honor our father before everything!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr. Stathakis. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u243	Mr President, with his reference to me, the Prime Minister has done nothing more than what a common political slander does. He came here to slander, nothing more, nothing less. From his political catastrophe and from the burden of his failure, down where he is, throws away any permission, if anyone is filled. But get on with you, dear friends of the government. As far as I am concerned, I have never signed anything, but nothing to do with the money he has mentioned, no financial order, nothing more than the forming of a policy. Indeed, because it is good to say this, but we also need to prove it, for the Minutes of this House, the relevant report of the Department of Health Inspectors' House, where my own political initiative refers to the OECD groups opening up to all the hospitals in the country and the OECD units closing down in the city centers. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Although this is the case, the Prime Minister made a report today about 10 million that Okana gave, but he doesn't know where they've gone. His ministers spoke a few days ago about 5 million. The truth, as Mrs Malliori has, is that for all the costs she has done, she has the legal documents and has testified them to the public auditors, but also to the interrogator - please! - since 2014. The report I presented to you is a January 2014 report. The Prime Minister overlooks all this and says to the House today, in this debate, everything he has said. I have no doubt, no shame, but is it going well? It does not go well, Mr President, because, with those actions, without closing any unit of OKANA, but by going to the thirty-three ends of Greece, the relevant units were removed - as Mr Karamanlis had called it - the 'list of shame'. Human lives were saved, without shutting down and transporting from city centers to hospitals, which were...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u245	I shall finish, Mr President. When they offend us, we'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u246	Please, you'll be done now in ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u247	To others who were insulted, you gave the floor. I'd be done now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u248	I gave the floor as long as I have to. Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u249	I'd be done. So keep the time of my interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u250	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u251	Mr President, if you go to Piraeus, for example, and see what it is today, where Okana was, you will understand the value of those actions. Instead of saying this, are you charged with me and my period of service, without any grounds supporting what you're saying? It's a common slander. This man, who is today an institution of this office, lacks any arguments, but his purse is exaggerated by mud, slander and all sorts of lies and demagogy. They don't save him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u252	We're done, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u253	They do not save him decisions of the Committee of Inquiry or of the Council of State or anything else. No one can save him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr. Spirtzis has the floor. Mr. Spirtzi, not the Step. Anyway, you can talk from the Stepma, but I'll still give you two minutes. You know, I won't give you any more time. Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, I come here to table valuable documents for colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, the well-known references to targeting and mud have been made today. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, do you understand what you are complaining about? Are you telling us why we are making competitions for the "Patras - Tower" with discounts of more than 50% and not 0%, as you on the Olympian road and concessions? Do you understand why you blame us? And tell us what you're complaining about. We have repeatedly challenged you. Tell us how and when Mr. Calogritsa or anyone else was favored. Find a serious legal and engineer to advise you. I urge you to tell those who were giving projects as you knew that the built-up works of the few endings. The free money ending. I'll tell you what we don't do. We are not making contracts of EUR 68 million between the Greek State and the concessionaires, because they have been delayed signing the contract. I submit to the minutes the contract. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We don't let the Egnatia Road's negative accounts stay with contractors, as they stayed for five governments. Can I read you the money?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u256	There is no 'yes, yes'. In forty seconds, Mr. Spirtz is closed. Mr. Papadopoulos, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u257	Anyone who wants the findings is a few hundred million to the relevant Minister for Justice, because they are confidential. There's more coming. You're asking me to apologize for baptizing a kid, you guys who go to the patios' birthdays and coach-men's birthdays. Inside the canal contest, go to the coach canals.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u258	Half Crete is baptized!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u259	And since we, colleagues, have nothing to fear, contrary to you, have today submitted to the Prosecutor of Corruption and the Public Works Inspectors for the investigation of all the mud reports, all the statements of your officials - New Democracy, Democratic Reconciliation, Potamio - for investigation and the 'Patra - Tower' and for the so-called gift that Mr Mitsotakis has forgotten. I testify to what I've submitted to the D.A. and the Public Works Inspector.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u260	Minister, thank you very much. Be well. Mrs Gerovalis and then Mr Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u261	You didn't tell us about the bank.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u262	Whenever you want, even now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u263	Please! Quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u264	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in all this terrible strife, therefore, Mr Theodorakis chose to deal with a new child, with a colleague of mine, who was killed in a car accident a week ago, so he became known to be my partner, although the name on "DOWN" was posted for a year ago. This young man therefore criticised SYRIZA publicly. It wasn't a piece of dog, it wasn't a friend, it wasn't a party, it wasn't all that you've been telling us from time to time about how we hire our partners. A young child, then, who served what he was asked to do in my office, with morality, consistency and unreserved professionalism. So Mr Theodorakis, today, crossed the line. For serious opponents I have escaped the temptation to use characterizations that are mad at me. Today I will do it for Mr. Theodorakis, and let me not rank him up for the first. Humility! We have exceeded the limits of vulnerability and political vulnerability. At first I thought to name him only as he described himself as an old journalist, entitled "Airplane". That's not good enough. I'm more angry than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u265	Mr Economou and Mr Mousalas, Mr Athanasios and Mr Venizelos have the floor. And we're closing this circle, so we can get through to the second grades.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u266	Mr. Kammens, Mr. President, referred to my name, calling it the right hand of Chochazopoulou. In fact, from 1997 to 2000 I worked at the Ministry of Defence in the sporting programs, and this accounts for me as 'right hand' Mr. Kammens. I have to say to Mr Kammenos that, if I am the 'right hand', to look where the 'left hands' of Chochadzopoulou, dealing with armaments, here, in the parliamentary group, in the Political Committee of the employers and in the whole system that you have gathered, Mr Kammene, are you and your partner and stop talking, why the proverb says? "To the wet...". He's saying something. But listen. I have been elected as a Member since 2000. I have had a bad habit. So any citizen, dear, from 2000 to 2016 knows how much Economou had in 2000 and how much he has in 2016. He can see my whole course. You, dear Mr. Cammene, can you do that? You, Mr. Cammene, and a lot of others in here, can you say? Today, after 15 years of parliamentarians, I have at 100,000 deposited at the bank. But I don't have any lowers, I don't have offshore, I don't have any deposits abroad, I don't have anything. You, Mr. Cammene, can you explain to us how you found them and where you found them? For I, every year for sixteen years, declare that you have had it and that the last distant citizen in Greece will see, because I have nothing to fear. So look next to you. I'll tell you something. Don't look. The gold medal of your fucking, yours, it's not at risk from me, but from your partner next door.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u267	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u268	Mr President, you will give me the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u269	Minister, if you'll speak. You have the floor after a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u270	Now, on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u271	Please. You have the second. There is no 'now'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u272	I have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u273	The 'now' I have not kept it before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u274	On staff telling about my "outside."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u275	I told you before that, after an hour and ten minutes, Mr Economou replied. I kept this procedure to keep it...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u276	Mr President, we must respond to the personal questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u277	But at the beginning of your speech you will refer to that - please! - or at the end of personal. We are not going to negotiate on this now. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u278	I also have staff, Mr President. First - Mr Kammenos mentioned me in his speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u279	You, Mr. Georgiadis, have no staff at all. It's Mr. Muszala's personal time and at the end of the personalities and you, Mr. Cammene. It's three in a row. The parties' leaders are waiting for a whole world to complete the process. Please. Please. Here, Mr. Muzala, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u280	How many minutes do I have, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u281	Two minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u282	Yes, sir. Reports were made to the refugee. My name was twice mentioned, but nothing was said, except Mr Theodorakis. It has been said that Mr Buddour said things. As you know, I have a deep respect in this House and every time a question or question arises, I come. Only if I'm out on the outside for the ministry's work, I'm not coming. Everything else I'm postponing. In the coming days, I have received a storm of questions and questions on the basis of what Mr Buddour said. I will answer, considering that the questioner adopts what I consider to be slander. I will not answer Mr. Buddour. I will respond with all due respect to the Member who has adopted this. Today nothing has been said. A shadow, 'Mr Buddour' said. I can't get into this game. I think you're wrong. That's not the way. As you know, I'm a doctor, I'm not a lawyer. You're calling me to prove my innocence. It doesn't sound good to me. I will tell you something, however, about two or three specific things. He said Mr. Mitsotakis that Buddour says I'm making direct assignments, suspicious assignments. I'm Deputy Minister. I have no possibility and I have no right to open a competition, to approve a competition, to sign ten drachmas, to do anything. Therefore, that is not the case. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Let me finish. Secondly, about the money in the NGOs to say that it is impossible for Mr Mousal, Mr Tsipras, Mr Mitsotakis, to be responsible. We've discussed this in the question. I am sure that in your European parties you too fought with us in order for Greece to take the money and not the NGOs. We didn't make it. Mr Theodorakis raised two specific issues: firstly, he said that it costs Norway EUR 12 000 and Greece EUR 15 000. It's false and unproven. He has again raised an argument from Mr Buddouris. For Lero - Mr Theodorakis is missing - I did not have time to find the documents. I have here all the evidence. I think Mr. Theodorakis was misinformed. I'll deposit the official papers to him. He's got the wrong information. If you give me time, I can answer you for hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u283	No, you don't have time. You have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u284	So I conclude with this: you will not find any suspicious things in the refugee. SYRIZA handled it with decency. Our results are good. Everything concerning European funds is doubled by the European Commissions and the auditors of the European Union, and you know that. Finally, Mr Buddhur resigned. His resignation was accepted by the Prime Minister. I'm stopping here. I'm not going to deal with this stuff anymore. I am, however, at your absolute disposal, if you adopt what I claim to be slandering, to respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u285	Mr. Athanasios has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say this, Mr President. Please don't count the time now. In accordance with Rule 68 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall take the floor immediately after the person who has raised a point of order or in any case gives a different meaning.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u287	Have you read all Article 68?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u288	Sure. But there's another thing I want to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u289	What's he saying? It says 'in any case until the end of the debate'. Please, Mr. Athanasios, leave this now! Not to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u290	No, Mr. President. Read the second subparagraph of the second paragraph, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u291	And the third verse! And it's going to end and the whole point of the conversation is going to leave to ping pong. In any case, you have given the floor for the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u292	Listen, Mr. President. It's like I call it. Secondly, when three ministers refer to the same Member, I cannot limit my time to only two minutes, which corresponds to only one. If I want to answer three MPs, what will happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u293	Nothing! You will choose with your experience and answer the core of objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u294	No, Mr. President. Staff is for a Member of Parliament who is not interrupted, the Rules of Procedure say after the end of the day. Please give me another minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u295	Anyway, nobody cursed you. Go ahead now. You'll have another minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u296	To say something to all colleagues. I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, since I was mentioned, because I had the honour of being Minister of Justice at the time - that when we have received two basic provisions, firstly, with the legislations that have been struck by corruption and all the misdemeanours of public officials have been abused and, secondly, with the establishment of the national coordinator against corruption, our country in the international ranking table has improved by twenty-five full positions. Now I shall refer to the second point, on Mr Kammenos, who spoke about the subject of Mr Venizelos' submarines. Let me remind you of the history, ladies and gentlemen. A committee of inquiry is being held on this matter. The House, by a large majority, says that there is no evidence. And the case is stopped. The then President of Parliament, Mrs Constantopoulos, takes the Minutes of the House and sends them to the Prosecutor of the Ice Arrow. The Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, as you know, under Article 86 of the Constitution, but also under Law 3126/2003, is obliged immediately, without considering anything, to send the case-file, as sent by the President of the Parliament, to the House back by the Minister of Justice. And that's what he did. Watch out now. The procedure has indeed come in Parliament, and that is where Mr Kammens is right, saying that he has delayed going, but why? Municipal elections were announced, the House closed, and as soon as they opened, the next day, they send the case-file to the parliament. But what would the House say about the substance? Why am I saying that? Because he has a courtesy and found that there is no responsibility in Venizelo. What did he do to Venizelo? To discuss the case again. That's why he complained to me afterwards and he says to me, "Why, Charalampe, didn't you send it fast?"
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u297	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u298	When should I send her? Listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u299	So the issues have been clarified. Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u300	Listen to me. [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] In order not to create impressions and laugh, ladies and gentlemen. You have legal good men and you see it, to explain how it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u301	Mr. Athanasios, good! They've been clarified. However, it is an extremely political issue. Please don't make me turn you off your microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u302	Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u303	You're closed. You're not affected by this. There was political controversy, you explained, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u304	You told me you'd give me a minute. And he only said...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u305	You've explained, it's over, you don't have another minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u306	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u307	Mr. Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u308	Why didn't you cover the position of Vice Presidents of the Ice Bay since June, while only the prosecutor's post was covered? It's been so long and it hasn't been covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u309	Good. It is not parliamentary control here, Mr Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u310	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u311	What's "why" now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u312	To go to a hostage, Mr President, in the light of disciplinary measures. This is to create impressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u313	Well, you said what you wanted to say. We all heard them. Please, Mr. Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u314	What kind of procedure do you give me the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u315	With the staff process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u316	Because there's another application for me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u317	Okay, you'll talk twice. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u318	No, 'all right'. I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you will allow me to speak on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u319	There is no 'prepared'. Now we are having an economic debate at the level of party leaders.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u320	It has nothing to do with it. The Rules of Procedure shall apply and the Members shall not be buffalo persons and there shall be a sitting of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u321	Mr. Venizelos, you were outside when I gave an explanation on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u322	Mr President, can you explain to me what Mr Kammenos spoke in the debate?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u323	In what capacity? The party leader.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u324	The party leader!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u325	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u326	I want it to be clearly recorded in the Minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u327	But why? How else would he talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u328	...that he did not speak in his capacity as Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u329	Mr. Venizelo, today only the Heads of the Parties speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u330	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u331	By way of exception, some colleagues on staff, when affected, have spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u332	I have my word for it! You'll understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u333	I'll understand, right!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u334	I don't ask random questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u335	Never!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u336	I have recently seen that there is a complete ideological, political and aesthetic osmosis and a mixture of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. And today, after the common fun at the Maximos Mansion, Mr. Tsipras spoke from the Step of the House as a clone of Mr. Kammenos. [[Noise in the Chamber]] However, the original Mr Kammenos has its merit, because he cannot escape his choices, his character and his nature. His nature leads him to personal insults and vulgarities. Forty years ago, at the University of Thessaloniki Law School, I met and then married my wife, belonging to a multi-member, conservative political family of Northern Greece, the Bacacelos family. They all belong to the New Democracy. They have close relations with Mr Kostas Karamanlis, very close relations. Could Mr. Kammenos, who goes to caramanism, have asked and been informed. It constantly connects relevant and irrelevant persons who bear this name to me, to my political action and to my personality. Did we ever say anything about Philip's first wife's family, Julie's second wife's family, his father, his relatives? Ask him to learn and respect the place he comes from and whom he has been pilgrimizing for years. This is also about the Vegeopulou case. I have said many times in this Chamber that we have proposed that we as a government in the Republic of Cyprus exchange letters and cancel the bilateral mutual investment agreement of Greece - Cyprus, so that Mr.Venopoulos cannot appeal to the International Diet Court against Cyprus, but also to the other claiming Cyprus, against Greece. It has not been done and instead of the current government now, continuing our line, it says a number of vague things about who protects who and who facilitates whom. This has to do with submarines.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u337	Thank you. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u338	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u339	Wait a minute, though. You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u340	You're welcome, Mr. President. Respect...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u341	I respect that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u342	Respect the procedure and history of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u343	Look, Mr. Venizelo, I respect what I have to respect. You have the other half minute for the submarines.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u344	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u345	You won't be blaming me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u346	Don't interrupt me. If Mr Kammens was new in the Chamber, I would be much more diligent, but he has lived and supported my efforts to protect the public interest and public money in 2010 and the Committee on Equipment and Parliament's plenary. Yesterday, "KATHMERINI" was released with a leading title: "Turkish submarines in the Aegean Sea". How are Greek submarines? Who got them? Who brought ownership? Who gave substance to the government's money that had been given for ten years? Speech. And one more thing: Mr Athanasios said: 'The Marios Ice has sent.' The Martian Ice didn't send. The Prosecutors' Prosecutor's Office and the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor, Mr. Kammenos, on a television broadcast, presented this document, and the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor who is in charge of the Prosecutors, because he relayed the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prostitution, because Mrs. Konstantopoulou circumvented the Constitution and the Laws of the State. Ms. Konstantopoulou, the pride of that SYRIZA time!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u347	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u348	One last word. If Mr. Kammenos wants to ask questions about Kammenos, he will address them to Mr. Spirtzi, Mr. Papa and Mr. Tsipras, not to me. That's enough, because we're gonna have a lot here all the time!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u349	Good. Mr Georgiadis has the floor, which is the last and last of all, Mr Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u350	I need a second, Mr President. Mr President of the Independent Greeks, I would ask you to be careful when you speak to me. You connected me to an online website, Antinews, and our inner-party elections. Mr. Cammane, you came here and we talked about a bunch of sites. For Olympia.gr and your partner, Mr. Andreas Papakyriakoopoulos, who has appointed you in your office and with the money of the Greek people, you have said nothing? Well, you don't have, Mr. Cammene, the moral stature anymore to speak in this Chamber. Do you know why? Why did you break up New Democracy, you and Mr. Quick from behind, the party that got you a Member since 1993. Listen, why don't you laugh?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u351	I'm laughing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u352	Because you said that that day PSI is a treasonal act and raised Greece. And as Minister of Defense you have now tabled - because the entire government is tabling the budget - a draft budget - if you have not read it, ask Mr Tsipras who is next to you - to whom you are writing that, thanks to the then betrayal PSI, you as Minister now pay half the interest. So on page 53 of the preliminary draft, you have not read it, and you do not have the stature to go to the Neo-Democrats, who have taken you out for so many years and said to them: 'I have divided New Democracy into the so-called treacherous PSI, which I now serve as Minister, praise, welcome and vote on the budget'. So don't take the floor again and say my name, because I have more to say next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u353	Mr. Georgiadis, we're done with Antinews. Mr. Kammenos has the floor and he's the last one. Then those from the Heads will follow the Prime Minister first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u354	Mr President, I shall begin at the end. The respect of the Vice-President of the New Democracy - applauded by the New Democracy - to justice is contained in the following words, which were spoken on 1 October 2016, referring to the Vovos case: 'Where did this idea of the Polytechnic lead us? It led us to criminalize the business. When these murmurs went to the Council of State, that is to say, they met a hundred thirteen murmurs with their chief judges, two murmurs, together, met and Greece was destroyed." [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] This is your Vice President! Give him a hand! Secondly, as far as Mr Venizelos is concerned, Mr Venizelos, you told us that we had the submarines thanks to you. Thank you to Mr. Avramopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u355	You think so?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u356	I say that, thanks to you, Mr. Safas took 500 million and "had gone". And when we were telling you about Mr. Safah and Mr. Safah even claims a billion...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u357	You're lying again!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u358	Ten times this debate has taken place here. The Minutes are so much in this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u359	...to leave questions?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u360	Let go, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u361	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u362	You're responsible for Safah. You carried him here. We told you our objections. You heard them then from Mr. Meimarakis. Then Argyris Dinopoulou told you in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u363	Yeah, yeah, right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u364	The New Democracy told you and you insisted on Mr. Safah, who grabbed the 500 million, took the option of two other submarines, "patched" the money and got up and left. And if it weren't for Abrahamopoulos to make the deal with the Navy, there wouldn't be submarines today. As far as Mr. Bacacelo is concerned, he's your relative. What can we do? But you called me "funny buffalo" when I asked you from the House if there was a relative with a stressful face that has shares in the MIG and you did not answer. Finally, on Mr. Economou's case...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u365	Mr President, I have staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u366	Please. This debate has been concluded in the House and is repeated as long as you're both in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u367	It's not complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u368	Please! [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Don't hit Mr. Christophilopoulou! The Prime Minister will be talking soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u369	I didn't say...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u370	Mr. Venizelos on the day before...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u371	I'll hit as much as I want, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u372	Why are you going to hit yourself as long as you want? I don't understand. What do you got 10:00 at night?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u373	I did not imply or say that you were stealing or participating with Mr Tsohatzopoulos, on what he is accused of and imprisoned. I said you were his partner, which you accepted. From that point on, listen, since 1993 I have been presenting "from now on" and if you see my "from now on" from '93, my fortune has been reduced as long as I am a politician and has not increased. I don't have money abroad I don't even have offshore on benches I've put a hand in my life. I'm so afraid of the curse, High Priest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u374	All clarifications were given on the right day. Mr Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u375	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u376	Please, Mr Economou, nothing has been written in the Minutes and nobody has heard anything, not even in public.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u377	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u378	There's no sound in what you said. Mr. Economou, hold on, please. Hang in there, please. There's a Parliament wing missing. Don't substitute. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have finished my first speech with a rather unusual and heavy charge, addressed to the Chief of Staff and asked him for one thing. To come up after me at the Step of the House and invoke the truth all the time and the Agreement of the Truth, after the heaviest characterization - I admit, and I am not used to it - for SIEMENS and the complication, to clarify one thing: if he thinks it has ever been in this place and there is today a SIEMENS scandal. Attention, SIEMENS scandal. And you went up, Mr. Mitsotakis, in Stepma of the Parliament, that you heard nothing from what I said before, and read the speech that your partners had written you, as if nothing had happened. It's like nothing happened. I'll wait for your second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u380	You'll hear them. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u381	Okay, that's what I want to hear. If there is at last a 'SIEMENS' scandal in this place. I repeat. And I ask you, I think you will gladly answer and what you will finally do with sea-loving. You 210 million euros and 186 million euros - I don't know how much - the PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u382	Didn't you hear anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u383	You answered that, too. You replied what you told us in March. So you answered what? That your operating expenses will cover them, he says, from the coupons and sponsorships - I'm sure you will, you will, because you have friends to grant, you have years - and you will be assigned, you say, the grant. Tell us, Mr. Mitsotakis, what grant and what loans? What has already been denounced and'red'? That's all? These "reds"? For these'red' citizens - who are not protected by the law of Katseli and by all the laws that we have voted on for the protection of the first residence - see and see all the previous period auctioning. What are you going to give? [[Noise in the Chamber]] [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] What are you going to give? I'll tell you about it, sit down. And not only do you refuse to answer, but you know what? When you are forced to pronounce the word 'SIEMENS', you never put the word'scandal' forward. Never. Once again, you have been here to oppose the arguments, saying - I heard you from this step-by-step - that, for the extrajudicial compromise, the agreement you brought here in the House and you voted with SIEMENS, we asked for a renegotiation and when I listened to you, I did not understand whose side you were on. Whose side are you on? Will you put our backs on us to renegotiate so that the Greek State can win everything that has deprived him of the agreements that you and Siemens have done so many years, yes or no? And you do nothing else in your speech - since, in my view, you did not respond and I will come back to the subject - despite what the people say, the commonly called 'other words to be loved, but nothing to be loved for the tabbie'. All you want to achieve is, not prove that you and your party are innocent of blood - you cannot prove this - you have no conflict with great interests, you are not bored of very great scandals. All you want to say to the Greek people, who, of course, are disappointed, pays so many years' weight, is that "all of them are the same". Mud in the fan and 'all the same'. And how did you document this? How? 'Great whiskey'. I didn't really know that. It's good you put it in this House today. I didn't know the complication in this place had the name Kalogerica. I didn't know. I thought he had other names. But in any case, Mr. Kalogritsa, you probably know him better than we do. Of course, he was a friend of the late Charilaos Floraki, and businessmen must all have friendships on the right and not on the left. But tell us, what did we favour him? To what did we favour him, Mr. Mitsotakis? You're laughing. Do you want us to compare everything you have done and everything that you have favored all these years, all the Canadians and publishers who have not paid a single euro in order to obtain legal permits, why have they never tendered and paid a single euro for frequency charges? Would you like to compare this? The public works? Where do we start and where do we stop? And of course, you've reached the point where you've come to tell us that the contest is diagnosed and that it's already collapsed - why? Why did the public take 255 million - and that even the next successful tenderer who came, when our so-called Mr. Kalogeritsas did not pay - and from the first moment we said that anyone who has disqualified one of the conditions of the competition will leave the next minute, as the "MEGA" left, as Mr. Karatzaferis left - even the next, Mr. Savvidis, became a "lago". You know, I don't know anyone who pays 20 million advances and 60 million more along the way. If you're aware of such loots that pay millions, what can I tell you? Let's all go hunting, catch some horses, land in this place! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And since you hadn't had a word about the issue of tax evasion lists, your protected, Mr. Papastavros, Mr. Sklavonis, all those who are trying to protect and involved in scandals, Mr. Vegeopoulos, who you defended last time, you brought not the Lagard list, nor the Borgians list, but the Tsipras list. And what did you remember here to bring to the House? All abstracts from the "yellow" newspaper headlines, such as the specs of the "First THEM" and the "small" - have not yet come to the committee, will come, I imagine - with which you are, of course, proving the quality of your arguments and your political speech! Bring here and remake the slanders of the "yellow" brochures. May I just remind you, Mr Mitsotakis, on the subject you referred to - and I think it is a shame to refer to you again and again, do you have anything else to say? - for the "outside" of Flambury and Stathakis. Do you not know that a final decision has been taken in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and that the representative of the New Democracy, as well as the representatives of the judiciary, have been acquitted? You don't know that? You don't know that. Two representatives are of SYRIZA on the respective committee of Parliament, which examines 'wherever you were.' One is New Democracy and the others are judiciary officers. And they were acquitted. And you, as a common slander, come again to this Step, without shame, and bring back the theme Flambury - Stathakis. And what else do you come to bring back, if you don't have what else to say? The notorious issue raised by the newspaper "THEMA" for Mr. Katrugalos. In fact, a few days later, a few months later - if I remember well - after the first election in January. And you don't know that the "THE VIMA" itself was forced to revive and withdraw, apologise to Mr. Katrugalos, while the trial is pending against the journalist, Mr. Chiotis, who inspired the matter? You don't know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u384	Very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u385	You know that, Mr. Mitsotakis, but say, say something is left! You also referred to the newspaper 'AUGY' - another allegedly dreadful revelation! - and you said, "Here, like we have offshore, and you have offshore. Isn't that right? And we've got Papastaurus looking for a tax evasion of many millions, but you too, guys! You don't have one? After you increased the share capital, a company offshore came in from Cyprus." And what did he take? It took 2,93% of the AGEAN share capital, ATLAS CYPRUS INTERNATIONAL TRUST. Some Members, in fact, from New Democracy did - and they ought to - a thorough inspection in Cyprus and did not find it. It is very reasonable, because as far as I know, Cyprus is a Member State of the European Union and as I can imagine, we know - and you will probably know - offshore companies are banned in the European Union. They have looked elsewhere again - and they have not found it logical again - because there is no company, Mr Mitsotakis. It is a legitimate company based in Cyprus and is owned by other companies in a group of companies with the general title "KATAPHYMATIC". You can search there and find all of her evidence. Carbon and that treasure! Again, however, you put your own self-government, as the other time that you raised up a huge noise, because the government, for the first time, trying to put order on the issue of offshore companies, following the OECD positions and rules and in cooperation with the institutions, brought a law on offshore, and you were shouting that we are serving private interests, as if our executives, who have filled newspapers with thick titles, hanging on the standways involved with tax evasion and offshore companies. And when we told you, "So are you? General ban', the next day half of your parliamentary group ran away to make a statement. That's the reality. You do not, however, put any mind on the subject of channelling. You continue with fanaticism to defend the interests and to reform the arguments of the canalarchs, without any pretext anymore. Today I heard the outrage you added to your argument that - it says - the 258 million ECU. plus 60 million, which we have taken so far is not much, it is little, because in the decade - it says - we will lose 1.7 billion. Listen to what you said today! And where did you get that? You found it - he says - 'cause it's a BSE argument. In fact, in the BSE information bulletin there is a table, but it is a table which is based on the documentation of the Canalarchs themselves, the EIT. I want you to prove to me, Mr Mitsotakis - because when you say something to Parliament, you have to prove it - from where we will lose ECU 1.7 billion. You also accused us that we did not collect the same from more than four, avoiding, completely bypassing the fact that you have never collected the same from anyone for twenty-seven years. Zero. No fees for advertising, no frequencies, no licensing. Zero. You only give 'air'. So you blamed us, why? Because we collected - it says - from four. But you don't know that? You're also a liberal school. It is a market economy. Don't you know that the limited offer increases the price? If we had eight or ten or "Come and everyone you give, get it optional", they would all come, put out of a million and finish the story. How many were there? Ten for a million? Ten million. Just because we restricted the offer, we created this great competition and were closed for three days within the General Secretariat and they did not know where the account came from when they came out, and that is why we got the 258 million. That's why. Now you're doing what you don't understand? Do you think that with these arguments you can convince some average citizen who listens to us? You told us that, in any case, the market would regulate them if we were to grant more permits. I'm bypassing the matter of honor. The market would regulate the broadcasting scenery. As the market set it for twenty-seven years, right? We saw what media we had, which, with the first implementation of the law and stopped the sea loans, started jumping out of the windows by the shareholders. That's what's set the market. Of course, they shut up all channels for all these years in debt, along with the country's banking system, to pay the "air" the taxpayers with the banks' recapitalisations. So you say again that our aim is to set up our own involvement, to control the media. Mr Mitsotakis and ladies and gentlemen - I address everyone - what we are doing has a very great bravery. Other governments tried to do that. You mentioned the period of the main shareholder, but I never remember as a New Democracy Member you defended the main shareholder.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u386	You don't remember well. You weren't in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u387	I don't remember, but you tell me if I remember. Tell me. Other governments tried and backed up. Do you know why? It's not an easy thing from morning till night to night to have everyone across, to twist everything. We now have against those who came out of the competition because they did not fulfil the conditions, of course those who did not get the permission because they did not have money to put them and, of course, those who were forced to pay over 60 to 70 to 75 million. Of course we have them across the street. We all have them. And he really wants a soul's bravery to do that. But we made a promise to the Greek people: we will go to the end. And what unites us is our honesty and purity, the fact that no one has us in hand. You guys are for the chair. She's lost, and that's why you're doing it. You can't stand it. You can't even last a year and a half. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that if we did what Mr Mitsotakis said, if we said to them: 'Come on, give out a million, take everybody', would you not smuggle us from morning to night as they did to you? That's what they did to you, isn't it? Did anyone in this country realize that there was a memorandum first and second from the media? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Did these gentlemen who are now coming out in the morning shows remember that this place has been diagnosed for five years, that it has lost 25% of GDP? Did they ever remember? But they went out and said from morning to night that it was a blessing and a one - way street.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u388	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u389	Suddenly today - because I will speak to you and that is why - they discovered that there is also a matter of auctioning in the country. Of course! And Mr Mitsotakis also came here, in a crisis of politics - let me - hypocrisy, say, 'What have you done for auctions?' And I say hypocrisy, why did I hear him speak to SKAI, to Mr Papachela, and say: 'There is no doubt that there should be auctions not only in the first place but also in homes of businessmen who have debts in the banks?' You said that. You said that. Here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u390	Not in the first place, I said. Keep them up to date.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u391	Not only in the first residence, but also in country houses in Mykonos businessmen, who robbed their companies and have their money outside and are strategic mispaid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u392	That's what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u393	But we're not against what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u394	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u395	It's registered. Alas. It's registered. And you come today to blame us. So I want to give you the official information here, to see when, how and what auctions took place in the country. In 2008 there were forty-three thousand real estate auctions in banks in the country. Fifty-two thousand real estate auctions were held in 2009 in banks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u396	It's confiscations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u397	Let's go, we'll see all the evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u398	Why are you reacting, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u399	In 2010 there were forty-eight thousand real estate auctions in the banks. In 2011, forty-four thousand percent. In 2012, twenty-six thousand. In 2013, nineteen thousand two hundred. In 2014, sixteen thousand. In 2015, no one. Eight thousand seven hundred had been notified, but they were not because we were government and in 2016 they have become five hundred. That's the reality. But the Greek people now learned that there is an issue of auctions. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The pain is on you now! But you had the Memorandum of Understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u400	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u401	You had the Memorandum of Association of the Fifth Assessment, and we had to oppose these signatures both in Brussels and Berlin. Your signatures, that the first residence will not be protected at all. And we managed and protected 98% of the first residence up to 280,000 euros. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And now - I repeat - everything that sees the light of publicity, because there are issues - I do not want to hide anything - do not concern auctions coming out of the banks, but from the DU in collaboration with municipalities. And it is indeed a matter and there should be cooperation with the municipalities too. I've heard Mr. Patulis make some positive statements. I hope that they will cooperate and see how we have protected the first residence of poor people from auctioning to the banks, so we can also protect them from debts to the public. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But I have heard you, Mr Mitsotakis, also make a general attack on the general title that we are intervening in justice. Our intervention in justice, what was it? That I went out at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition and said that I believe that the law is constitutional and will not be expelled from the Council of State. This phrase was then followed by the phrase: 'In any case we shall respect the decisions of justice.' That was the intervention. So, what did you want me to say? You wanted me to go out and say that, you know, our law isn't constitutional and it's going to expire. That's what you wanted me to say. And that was an intervention! While when you were out and said exactly the same and worse - I remind you that in your interview again, Mr Papachela, you said that this law is not going to stand in the Council of State - this, yours, was a crisis, and my speech! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But that's not the problem. The problem is that Mr Mitsotakis, today, from the beginning to the end of his speech, actually made another attempt, to say it an Englishman, bullying, to the judicial officers. Because that's what he did. And you know what? I am sure that judiciary officials will not pay attention to this because there are bullying from morning to night from the channels and there are also you from the Step of the House. You accused me and the head of the courts, because they came and visited me. And why was that an intervention and a transaction? Because they visited me on matters related to their wages. Do you not know that judges' wages are not a purely economic trade union issue, but an institutional issue on the basis of Article 8(2) of the Constitution? Do you not know that, or do you not know that on the same matter they had requested - in 2012, if I am not mistaken - a meeting with Mr Samaras and he accepted them? You don't even know that? And if you don't know this, tell me something: When institutional issues - I repeat, institutional issues, there is also a payroll and there are the provisions of the Constitution - the leadership of the judges is calling for a meeting with the executive leadership, what should we do? Say, "No, don't we meet you?" What exactly do you think? And, of course, it was not enough to attack us, you took a step further. You attacked the President of the Council of State from this step because he had the courage, according to our own assessment of bravery, to come out and say, "We applaud society." Watch out. He didn't say the popular feeling. 'We are deafening society'. And you attacked him for that. Obviously you do not know that this too is a constitutional self-evident article, Article 1(3): 'All powers are exercised by the people and stem from the people'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u402	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u403	Oh, we're unbelievable. Anything that has to do with the people, you have forgotten even if it is written in the Constitution itself, Mr Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u404	Quiet, please. Leave the people's courts. Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u405	You have also referred to the initiative we have taken on constitutional reform, and it is a real pity, Mr Mitsotakis. And it's a pity, because this is an opportunity that shouldn't be lost. And you spoke with disgraceful words despite the fact that you know the following: Firstly, the Dialogue Committee is a committee and not a scientific committee. Secondly, while you know that there has been an effort in the Dialogue Committee and many worthwhile people from all over the spectrum and social representations, as well as ideas, we are aiming to hold an open dialogue before it comes to Parliament. We're not breaking the Constitution. The process will take place, as the Constitution defines, within the parliament. But before he came to the House, shouldn't society be heard? Should we not take the pulse of society on major issues, on critical issues? Do you think that the debate on the Constitution, that is, on the institutional framework in which the country will go in the next 20 years, 30 years - does not change every day the Constitution - is only a matter of specialists and parties? Is that what you think? Should society and its institutions not have a direct say? Do you have in mind, Mr Mitsotakis, the view of the top constitutionalists already from the first post-political constitution, Phadon Begler, Giorgos Koumantou and Aristovoulou Manesis, who had suggested that social and professional actors should have knowledge and right to submit proposals for the Constitution? So why? What's that scare you? Your popular will frightens you in every expression of it. It frightens you to listen to the views of civil society, non-governmental organizations, coordinates, of each individual citizen. Why does it scare you? You're supposed to be a liberal? But you know why it scares you? It frightens you and reacts for the reason that you now want to save and well, to shape a picture of denial in everything. You say no to everything. And I imagine that you will not, at least in public, argue against members of the committee, which come from your political area. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to close up a little bit of the other wing here of the PASOK. First I heard Mr. Loverdos. Mr. Loverdo, I usually watch what I say, even though I get used to many times - like now - talking out of text. And you know what? What I said is right and I'll explain why. Because everything on the point you mentioned, they started with a decision of your to recruit a hundred and seventeen people to strengthen OkANA structures, but they were never hired, because the PHS never came out. In your decision, however, the Executive Board of the CEDEFOP and the OECD Board of Directors took a decision to conclude a programme contract and even to prepay CERIC 10 000 000 to the OECD for the extension of units. The total cost was - I think - 20,000 000, which the 15 000, 000 would go for staff and 5,000, 000 for operating expenses. Within nine months, however, 10,000, 000 were consumed without a single young worker being hired out of seventeen. And the SYPS conclusion, to which you refer, clearly says that for the 5,000,000 of the 10,000,000 there are no invoices for what happened and for the other 5,000, it says that they were not used under the contract. In any case what I said, Mr Loverdo, is that it is being investigated by justice and that I hope it will find a point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u406	You didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u407	That's exactly what I said. Look at it from the Minutes. And I really hope it gets out. Let's go to the next topic, which is more serious. I heard Mrs. Gennamas, who introduced herself. It doesn't have to be introduced to me. If she needs to introduce herself, she is probably Mr. Venizelos, who comes and intervenes as leader in her position in this Chamber. But I did not hear her say a word, like Mr Mitsotakis, about what will happen with the sea loans and whether you will ever return them to the Greek people. But he said, too, that same heavy conversation, the same heavy conversation that Mr Mitsotakis said. Besides, their speeches looked a lot like them. So she said that Mrs. Gennimata once again, which is reminiscing as candy over and over again, about the notorious orphans of Chohatzopoulos who have allegedly found a roof on SYRIZA, who are supposedly treated. Watch out, what do you mean when you say that? He does not mean the associates of the former Minister, because all those who participated in the PASOK governmental or party bodies were partners. I imagine it leaves it implied for accomplices to the crimes committed by Mr. Tsohatzopoulos. Mrs. Gennamas isn't here. I am addressing all over PASOK, but above all for it to respond at some point to its denology. You must speak with names and addresses, because if you do not speak with names and addresses you are common slanderers. And you're not slandering SYRIZA. Look out! You have men's backs. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The main issue, however, is the many thousands of fighters who, at some point, in the party founded by Andreas Papandreou, did not see either themselves nor the ideals they selflessly served with struggles for years and met SYRIZA. And you come today, you are under arrest! Say names! Who are they? Who are the associates of Chohazopoulou, the accomplices, who are in SYRIZA? [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] You know what? You don't have the right! You have no right, especially you, to speak vaguely!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u408	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u409	You don't have the right to speak vaguely and to lay back. And I challenge you not to sludge and speak with names, names and addresses. But you know what? Do you know what the oxymobile is? The oxymomile is for you to talk about Chohatzopoulos orphans, when you are the natural and recognised children and not the orphans of the political choices of the Chohatzopoulos period. Because, ladies and gentlemen of PASOK, you know, the time when these scandals have been extorted - the Chochazopoulou scandal, the scandal, that is, armaments and hatred, the 'SIEMENS scandal', because together you were - the period - that is, Tsochazopoulou, Mandeli, in the Papantoniou period, I was not the Prime Minister. Another was Prime Minister. And it's in PASOK's ranks. And Mrs. Gennamas isn't here to tell her I've been learning lately that she's been organizing and dining with a basic menu. I do not know, of course, whether Himalayan cats are involved in these dinners. So I hear Himalayan cats are involved. So, Mrs. Gennamas isn't here to do the honors. I hope he'll answer. But I'll tell her one thing: I'm not talking about skeletons in the closets. They're not skeletons in the closets. They're your good ones, your basic political dresses. They're not the skeletons. And don't think that because you've been coming here lately and you've been talking about a language that looks more like what Mr. Lafazanis says, you're not wearing these dresses. These dresses you wear. The dresses of the Simitis and the scandals that will be chasing you politically, I repeat. Politicians! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And you should finally give an answer and stop slandering against fighters who no longer found themselves in PASOK and met with SYRIZA. And I close my speech on the subject of 'SIEMENS'. I'll be back in the truck. Mr. Mitsotakis, you didn't answer. Neither for "SIEMENS" have you answered, nor for "KERYKA" Chania. We expect an answer to be heard because if you do not respond, rather the joint assessment of all those who are following you will be that for you there is no 'SIEMENS' scandal, that the New Democracy and the PASOK were not bribed by your friend Mr Christoforkos, there was never this trench of 2% for all the work done by the 'SIEMENS' in your country to your party funds, that there was no task assigned by the respective ministers to the company, there was no black fund that even paid your phone centre, you did not speed up the shameful and graceful extrajudicial compromise to cover the traces of your criminal actions, and that the translation process was not prevented from taking place and, of course, you have never had a long friendship with Mr Christ. I don't want to expand any more. And I don't want to expand, because you know what? What can I say when even a website - I learned it from Mr Kammenos's speech today - did not know it - which echoes and supports Mr Samara's ideas, is giving you the same things. They are, of course, internal issues to solve. I hope you untie them. But I want to tell you one thing, Mr Mitsotakis. If you want agreements of truth, you must have the courage to go up to the Step of the House and say truths, because the Greek people do not forget. Three hundred and fifty-six times says in his diary Mr Christoforikos - who escaped from your day and is in Germany and we will not know his truths about what happened in the place, in the biggest scandal - that there were meetings and telephone contacts with members of your family and with you personally. I don't want to go into any more details. I would like to challenge you once again, when you say 'the truth', to come to Step and prove it. Can I tell you something? There is no doubt that the Greek people have understood who the representatives of an old political system condemned the Greek people, who have signed up to crimes that plundered public wealth and led us to bankruptcy and who are trying, in great difficulties and adversities, to bring the country out of the crisis, keeping society upright. And you dare come here and accuse us, with bad arguments, of contentious arguments, of rendering the reciprocity to everyone, when you know that the House has drowned in your own arguments. Soon we won't fit in, so that Mr. Papantoniou, Mr. Mitarakis, yours, Mr. Loverdou, Mr. Mavragani, Mr. Venizelos and others can sit in. I don't know where they'll end up. Let's hope you'll be acquitted, but Parliament's full of documents. And I'm not talking about built-up and paid-up papers. I'm talking about documents. In the country, then, two worlds collide. On the one hand, it is the world of interlocutory, corruption, hatred, the fragmentation of public money, an embezzlement of bankrupt publishers and interconnected canals and politicians, and on the other hand, the living forces of this place fighting for the reconstruction of the country, social justice, equality and equality, all of them in this place equal to the laws. This battle, you know, at all costs, we'll give it to you by the end. We'll go all the way to the end, and we'll make it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u410	The floor is held by the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u411	Because, Mr. Tsipras, you see that you speak out of text, you know, the irresponsible chatter is not always a sign of argument power. However, what characterized your presence in the House today and in the protology, unfortunately, was the vulgarity of your speech, a vulgarity which is the confirmation of your guilt and the confirmation of your own political collapse. Indeed, Mr Tsipras, where we have arrived we do not need to introduce ourselves to the Greek citizens. They know you and know me. And they know very well that your identity writes that you are the most liar, the most incompetent and the most failed Prime Minister in this country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u412	Reply on ‘SIEMENS’ and leave the ‘false’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u413	Please, Mr. Constantinea. Mr. Constantine, be calm and do not interfere. [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] Please, be absolutely quiet! Excuse me, Mr. President. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u414	And one more thing, Mr. Tsipras, the story register will say that you will soon be the former Prime Minister of this country. Speaking of lies, to make things clear. Are you or are you not the Prime Minister who promised the 13th pension?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u415	You're very welcome. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u416	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u417	Mr. Constantine, please, you will not speak again, or you will be expelled from the Chamber. I'm telling you seriously. Okay? Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u418	Don't sweat, Mr. Tsipras, you'll hear them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u419	It's so cold sweat!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u420	Are you or are you not the Prime Minister who promised to abolish HISPIAN and over-taxe citizens? Please answer me if I am right or wrong. [[Noise from the wings of SYRIZA and New Democracy]] Are we lying, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u421	Be absolutely quiet and listen with care.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u422	Mr. Tsipras, I listened carefully. Are you or aren't you the Prime Minister you said you'd stop the militarisations to put the entire public property of the country into excess? Am I lying, Mr. Tsipras, or am I telling the truth? Are you or are you not the Prime Minister who said 'no house in the hands of a banker' and now for the first time are auctioning by the Ministry of Finance and you have no idea what you're talking about? No first home auctions took place, Mr. Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The best thing you can do, because you don't know the issues, is to fire your partners who write you what you're saying. What is true, though, is that on 19 October in the Municipality of Evrosmos, eight work dwellings will come to the hammer, Mr. Tsipras! And I'm filing out the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is your legacy! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You spoke of the parties' loans and possible losses to the banks as a result of their non-payment. Well, aren't you ashamed to talk about the banks? Have you not realised that we lost EUR 25 billion from your own operations and Mr Varoufakis with the unnecessary third recapitalisation? Have you forgotten that? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Have you forgotten, Mr. Tsipras? And are you talking today about damage to the banks? But, as we are committed, this committee of inquiry, which will investigate your real responsibilities for the harm of the Greek taxpayer, will become and we will find out the truth, Mr Tsipras, about what your own manipulations and Mr Varoufakis have led to this catastrophic development. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And since we are talking about the loans of the parties, I have explained to you, Mr Tsipras, how to repay these loans and how to redeem our party's finances. But are you not telling me, Mr. Tsipras, do you or do you not have loans as SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u423	Sure. But we're paying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u424	You have loans, indeed. You never answered a very interesting letter. I'll read it again, because you're the only one who's been serving us again today. So you'll hear them again to answer. When you sent a letter to Mr Rapano, to ask for a loan, you wrote in your letter: "It is also very clear that the acceptance of the two requests above", that is to say, to obtain loans, "require a broader vision and not specified solely by strict and unique financial criteria", and that you wrote these when you were a party of 3%. And you know very well that when we borrowed these amounts, the logic of state funding was quite different. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you're not telling me, Mr. Tsipras, any guarantees you have put in these loans? Answer at some point specifically what they are. I'm very interested to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u425	The building.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u426	I want to hear it from you on the microphone for the Minutes of the House. Because we may come back to this matter. So I am speaking again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u427	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u428	You can't restrain yourself, I see, at all. Too much irritation today in the Chamber. Every day, Mr. Tsipras, the price for your stay in power is very heavy. I was really surprised that you spoke thirty-five minutes, but you did not make a reference to today's Eurogroup. Today, unfortunately, the Eurogroup, so that you do not rush to say that I am pleased with this development - unfortunately, Mr Tsipras - did not approve the entire EUR 2.8 billion package and, above all, did not release EUR 1.7 billion, which is intended to pay back late payments. And you know what the Minister of Finance said, which I do not really want to describe from the Step of the House, is even absent, I do not want to talk about someone who has no opportunity to answer. We don't need that money, he says. But can these things be said by your government minister? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Do you know why Mr. Chakalotos says so? Because this money, the 1,7 billion, is intended for the real economy, which is of no interest to Mr Tsakalotos at all, because he has obviously exaggerated it to such an extent that it has destroyed it. Is it possible for your Government's Minister to say that we do not need the money when there are businesses in Greece today, Mr Tsipras, which may close tomorrow, tomorrow, in a week, why not collect public debts? And if your Minister has the nerve to say we don't need this money? And how do you explain that fourteen months later, the first assessment is still not complete? These are your responsibilities, Mr Tsipras. The economy is squeezing, investors are refusing to invest in the country with such an unreliable government. And on these issues, of course, we have heard nothing, nothing at all. And we have again heard the same abstract arguments, which I answered in my first speech. But I will answer once again and now by putting a number of my questions too. You have avoided, Mr Tsipras, and you and Mr Pappas, the essence of our criticism of the way in which the infamous competition took place. Do you want to or do you want the successful ones to come to Parliament in any way? I'm waiting for your answer. If you want, you can give it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u429	I'll give it to you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u430	Will the successful ones come to Parliament? We are really going to find out what the assets of the claimants were, what the committee really checked if the committee was inspected and what responsibilities are there? You have the opportunity, Mr Tsipras, to solve this great mystery once and for all. You must agree here and now to the New Democracy's reasonable request that all the relevant dossier be brought to the House and that the Committee on Institutions and Transparency be examined. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Say yes. It's simple, it's a simple word, yes. Yes, it is, nothing more. And then, of course, you do, because you have a bad habit of saying yes and doing it no afterward or rather not do it yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u431	Quiet, please! Make more noise from this side while Mr. Mitsotakis speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u432	I'll answer my teratology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u433	You made us a very interesting analysis, because demand limitations increase the price. Yes, sir. I told you that limiting demand...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u434	The offer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u435	The offer. The demand, if you look at it on the other side. The restriction of the number of television licences therefore brought EUR 258 million. Two things can happen here. Whether the market really can withstand this amount, and therefore you could have collected 25 million out of ten, because that would be what the market would have withstand, or the market, Mr. Tsipras, could not withstand that amount, so some have given a lot more money than they had to pay, expecting what? In selective relationships with you. Either one goes, Mr. Tsipras, or the other. They can't both be true. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Yeah, I know, they're a little complicated concepts. I understand that you may have a difficulty in understanding them. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I now come to the question of justice. You criticised us because we criticised the President of the Council of State because he said that justice must take into account the pulse of society. I imagine you share that view. I understand that - and I want you to say that, please - that, if justice takes a decision, it must take into account the pulse of society. If the Greek society tomorrow becomes xenophobic and racist, justice must take into account this change of attitude to public opinion and take account of it in a decision. Do you understand what you said, Mr. Tsipras? I do not think you understood what you said, because maybe Russo and the concept of distinguishing the powers to be a little foreign to you. You know, when you make such reports, it's not enough for a bookkeeper to write them to you, you have to understand them. But this country will not be a people's democracy! People's courts here won't stand! We have resolved this loose end, historically, Mr Tsipras, and we will not return to the past. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I also owe you some answers on two issues on which you have insisted very much and with unacceptable personal designations. Theme 'SIEMENS'. Of course there is a 'SIEMENS' scandal, Mr Tsipras. When there is an pending case in justice with more than sixty indictees of the company's hatred, of course there is a 'SIEMENS' scandal. Is there anyone questioning this in this Chamber? So listen to it. The question is not that, the question is what your own government has done, what has the justice, which you are supervising with great rigour, and why has there been a risk of limitation? And since you're talking about the extrajudicial compromise, we've reached this compromise with the company. If you don't like him, Mr. Tsipras, change him, abolish him. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Why haven't you done it yet? That is what we have been able to achieve, and that is what the House has voted on. So enough of hypocrisy! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And to finish, no one gave me any call center, Mr. Tsipras. You're lying and you know it very well! All paid in full. Stop that phony candy! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You also referred to the issue of "KERYKA" Chania. You should be ashamed, Mr Tsipras, because you know very well that we are talking about a 300,000-euro loan, which has a personal guarantee of a former Prime Minister and at the same time a property of great value and is in a process of regulation. And you dare talk about sea-loving? Aren't you embarrassed? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] Another look for sea loans, Mr. Tsipras. Look at them to Mr. Kalogrica, who was receiving tens of millions of euros from the Bank of Attica, without any collateral or presenting pastures in Ithaca as if they were real estate in Monaco. That was the value, something that was valued in Ithaca for 100 million euros. And because you said here that we need to speak with names and addresses, I should also remind you of some names that have escaped your attention. I didn't hear a word about Mr. Kouris. Talk. Nor for ALTER's maritime loans the biggest scandal in the history of the media. Did you do anything to investigate him? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Are you or aren't you, Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Kouri's favorite child and "anyanism"? So you can't move our finger. When I tell you you're older than the old one, that's exactly what I mean. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I have not heard in your dentistry, Mr. Tsipras, any references to Mr. Nearmenas. You mentioned him in your prototype. You didn't tell us which channel was hosting Mr. Lazopoulou, the biggest and most vulgar propagandaist. And of course you did not say a comment about what Mr Kontominas said, that you were good children, and that was an election aid. We told you that all systemic media, what you were accusing of, had your ministers every morning on TV. Because how did we find out Mr. Katrugalo, Mr. Metropoulou? Where did they all get to know each other, Mr. Tsipras? From their professional route or systemic means? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And since we're talking about names, to say anything new, because so far, we've only heard that you've only been mixing the same thing, Mr. Karagiorgi, you know him? Mr. Karagiorgis is a shipowner, the owner of a channel, who has hired Mr. Vaxevanis in an instant position. Your entire government, Mr. Spirtzis, Mr. Poppas, was presenting his initiative. I won't judge anyone, but two things I find interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u436	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u437	Mr. Karagiorgis... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Listen to them, because they bear your own manuscript notes all this. So, what did Mr. Karagiorgis try to do? It was his right. The question is, if you could make it easier for him. Converting a network of regional stations to a national-wide channel. And you know what you did to the Pappa law? You came at the last minute, after the law had been passed, and during the three hours of the program you made it five. That's how you legislate, Mr. Pappa. Take them and watch them! [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] One more thing because I see a lot of interesting coincidences. Mr. Karagiorgis has been arrested in the last few days for a warrant for arrest, I do not know the details of the case. He was released, but in this case was Mr. Manjuranis. But how can Mr. Manjurans finally be a lawyer in all cases? Forty-five thousand lawyers are in this country. Did you find the lawyer who had been convicted and who had gone to jail for the Koskotta scandal and you chose him, Mr. Pappa, for your legal representation? Aren't there any other worthy lawyers? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I don't question his legal adequacy, but as a lot of jobs Mr. Manjuranis isn't picking up lately? Mr. Tsipras, let me finish, because I won't make as much misuse of time as you have done. I didn't really expect you to be so vulgar today. I fully understand that it disturbs you that you have an opponent who, after nine months, has launched a major political overthrow. I understand that's what bothers you. I get it, it bothers you too. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You know, as you go with the poll forecasts, one out of three will be in the next House. So watch out for a bit! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And because you talked about comparisons, yes, Mr. Tsipras, let's compare. While Mr. Alavanos was taking you out of your hand and giving you the party, I gave you a battle of my own to prove my own political value, that I am politically autonomous, that I have my own stigma. It's not an easy case. Indeed, when you come from a political family, there are advantages, there are disadvantages. However, I was elected, Mr Tsipras, by four hundred thousand neo-democrats.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u438	I went out twice as Prime Minister with the people's vote. Don't give me that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u439	Why such an irritation? And leave him alone with me! You're going to do that shit someplace else! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Indigenous to your ministers, not me! I will speak to you in the plural from this step. You speak to your ministers as you wish! When I was, Mr Tsipras, in seven years I took three degrees from top universities, you took a decade to finish Metsovio. So compare yourself, Mr. Tsipras. When I was working on the inside and abroad, you did party gymnastics exercises. How many badges are you stuck in your life, Mr. Tsipras?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u440	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u441	How many badges are you stuck with, Mr. Tsipras? Most importantly, because these are elements of our curriculum and they are judged: When you made your own vulgar opposition and talked about traitors, about hangers, about german slanders, about slanders, about slanderers, you poisoned me with lies in public life, I was struggling in the ministry that I had undertaken to keep Greece upright. So I am making a policy of principle today so that confidence in politics can finally return. You are the head of this bizarre alliance of radical left, not to say extreme right, not to misunderstand Mr. Kammenos, but certainly of a strange ethnicist right, which only does, and today, is to divide the citizens. You have become synonymous with political deception, I tell the citizens the truth. I told you before, Mr Tsipras, and I repeat it now: you are climbing up with the mud and plucking, you are falling into the mud. And you can do whatever you want to yourself, but I've decided that from now on I'm not going to follow you. And since you have again referred to the argument of the elections you have won, a useful thing you can do: Proclaim other elections, Mr Tsipras, to see and measure ourselves at last! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] From today on, I will leave you to your loneliness to strive to prove who is more, less intertwined, more corrupt, as if you have the only right to be tried, judged, to give justice. You know, I'm going to borrow a phrase I heard in a recent telecracy in another country. As long as you drop the level, I'll take it up, Mr. Tsipras. And that is the obligation of this party! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Why us, our party and all the Greek women and all the Greeks who listen to us today, we are finally interested in how the economy will return to development, how jobs will be created, how we have good schools, how we will have real justice, Mr. Tsipras. Unfortunately, I'm afraid we don't have it. So you owe many answers to the Greeks. I don't think you're going to give them as you didn't give them today. I will personally continue, claiming unity of the country. The citizens who have voted for you are not to blame for your own lies and your own failures. I have a debt today, to speak to the Greek people as President of the New Democracy, as the head of this great historical party. And our duty, Mr. Tsipras, is to unite the people. And that's what we'll try to do. That is why we are not going to monitor you any more in this downhill to which you have been sliding, to make the big changes a reality, so that the creativity of this great people, which deserves better than what it has at last, can finally go ahead. You have no doubt at all, Mr Tsipras, that no matter how much you claim to be out of four years, it is not a long time when the people will be called upon to take their decisions. And a major political change is necessary today, not only for reforms to take place but also for the country's uplift. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u442	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u443	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u444	For a very short time, the Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u445	Mr President, I am not going to take the floor to answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u446	Mr President, why are you breaking the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u447	Will the Prime Minister answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u448	He is entitled to a three-speaking speech, and if Mr. Mitsotakis wants it, I will give him the floor. Please leave the economy of the conversation. Calm down. Mrs. Gennamas, you'll have the floor shortly after. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u449	You'll understand why I'm asking for the floor. I call for the floor to be re-established on time for a high point on a crucial issue for the country, because the Eurogroup issue is a crucial issue. Those who are following this debate and not only are the Greek citizens watching it, but many outside Greece are making an impression. I shall therefore make use of my third speech in a short time to respond to what Mr Mitsotakis said. I just want to say this. Mr Mitsotakis, Mr Tsakalotos did not say what you said a moment ago, nor is it true that the first assessment was not closed. Please read in detail the statements made by Mr Düsselblum's President, the official statements, the official communiqué. Greece has successfully closed down and the fifteen prerequisites, which were missing to complete the first assessment. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Sit down. Stop it. Let me finish. So the dose, which is 2.8 billion, is 1.1 billion dollars which will go for debt repayment and 1.7 billion for outstanding debts. In order to provide the money, 1.7 billion over dues must be paid, and this is a technical issue, and that is what the Eurogroup President has also mentioned and what the Eurogroup President has said - a full report not only on the money laundering of the outstanding debts June, July, August, and September, which was all the months that we have given in the past. As you can see, for technical reasons, there are no reports for September, and June, July and August have normally been given the cashiers, i.e. we are giving them due and go beyond what we give them, it must be captured and recorded in the next few days in the State General Accounting Office that the same applies to the month of September. Technically it was not possible to give the 1.7 billion in due course and not at a new Eurogroup meeting, but at a typical Euro Working Group meeting. Euclid Tsakalotos, Mr Mitsotakis, did not say what you said. It was a slandering thing you said. Mr. Chakalotos didn't say we didn't need that money. He said we don't have a direct bond repayment in the next period, not that we don't have and we don't need that money. Mr. Mitsotakis, be a little more careful when you refer here to the House on issues relating to the Greek economy. Of course, you can enjoy your three degrees, but let me tell you something else. I didn't go to foreign universities, I don't have three degrees, but I know Russo didn't talk about distinguishing powers. Russo spoke of the Social Convention. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I went to a public university. I know that at least, Mr. Mitsotakis. The rest in the end, my third speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u450	Good. It's been recuperated in relation to the incident. Mrs Gennamata, you have the floor and we are sorry, but it was necessary for reasons outside that clarification from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u451	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u452	Please, be quiet! Here you go, Mrs. Gennamas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u453	Unfortunately, Prime Minister, the country today, while we are watching all this unacceptable debate, has once again been in the canvass. If you think it is easy for you to swallow these slaps, it is not at all a typical matter for the country to be judged partially inadequate and only to take 1.1 billion today and refer the rest to a new decision. On the Internet right now we already have lists of prerequisites that the country has not completed, and I ask you very much, to study them and answer us at the next meeting, since you have tripled. You're in a hurry to complete! The message we send internationally, I hope, that you are aware of it today, because of your inability and inadequacy. I am afraid and I am particularly concerned that as long as you choose to lay the burden on the New Democracy - the Prime Minister has retired again - he is unable to listen to the voice of the democratic party, because he understands exactly what has become himself - as long as you choose to set up this duplex and so-called bipartisanism, the country is waging and sinking, because you have given up the debate on the debt, you have given 6 billion European bankers, and now it is becoming more and more evident that, if there is a debt debate that may fall short of the 2012 decision, it will be accompanied by tough measures, painful measures for the Greek citizens, for the workers, for the unemployed, for the pensioners and especially for the weakest incomes. You had the nerve to talk about auctions now. On 31-12-2017, according to your decision and signature - wide "Alexis Tsipras" - the protection of the first residence is finally over. No more lies! You haven't protected anything and anyone. Listening to your Minister, the one you chose today to represent you as a government in this debate on the conflict you caused, I really made the impression that I heard a Minister of Government of Karamanlis, who obviously - not just with your tolerance, but with your agreement - was protecting you absolutely. And I wonder what kind of government we have here. Have you kept anything from your left past, or is it enough for you to keep the tables of Che Gebara and Mars Velouchiotis over the offices where you meet with publishers, canalarchs and businessmen? To restore the truth in relation to what you said in your prototype, the privatisation of television frequencies was done by the Janedaki Government in 1989. Does that remind you of anything? New Republic and Coalition. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] A member of your current government, representing the most young, had a decisive role at that time in developments and decisions. In 2003, we proceeded with an integrated institutional framework under which the PSE launched a competition, which the New Democracy, when it became a government, annulled. So, in order to learn the truths of the MPs, because the Prime Minister knows them very well, despite what he said from this Step. We submitted to you in the previous debate we had here on the complexion a few months ago, very specific proposals to deal with corruption. You haven't done anything. And then I made you personally, because you listed thirteen regulations that you said were provocative and charismatic, and I told you that since you were unable to abolish the memorandum with a law and an article, abolish these thirteenth arrangements with a law and an article. But that's not even what you've been able to do all these months. As for what you have said about me in your dentistry, I would like to say to you: your colleagues report to you. You have chosen not to be inside and not to listen firsthand to what we say and in their efforts to give you arguments that we are supposedly like New Democracy and what Mr Mitsotakis says, have confused the lines. I said completely different things, because I am not used to slapping "slap on the fan". When I have to denounce, I denounce publicly and by name. But I won't get a word behind what I said, because you think it's all about PASOK in this place - perhaps even about the desolation of the city, get back there - except for those who come from PASOK, but you've got them within you. So I do not take a single word back for the looters and the archipelagos you have embraced, because that is your morals and I politically denounce you for your attitude. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] As for your information on Himalayan dinners and cats, I challenge you, Prime Minister, because it is obvious that you have all this information from your state-run connections within or outside the government, you come and tell us what you know from all of them with names and addresses, otherwise you will be the only slander in this Chamber. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Your crusade against the interlocutory has proved to be a simple crusade and the conflict has become another complication. And after the trade in hope has plunged, we now have the smuggling of morality. Your political career, your rise in power has been based on confiscation, deception, lies and mud. So, Prime Minister, the next time you want to talk about strife, don't bother leaving Maximos. Sit there and tell your partners. Don't leave the fort and meet on the road no retired and you don't have the MATs with you to protect you. In the history of the world's Left, your case will be taught and presented as an example, as an extremist attack by millions of idealists on the Left, who have principles and values, that is, precisely, that you do not have and I am very sorry about the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u454	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitris Koutsoubas, Secretary-General and President of the Group of the Parliamentary Party of Greece, Mr Dimitris Koutsoubas, then briefly Mr Kammenos and then Mr Theodorakis, after consulting the two political leaders. Mr. Kutsuba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u455	Until the Prime Minister finds out with his Minister, Mr Tsakalotos, abroad and internally about the procedures, etc., how much we care about what has been intervened. The point is that the Greek people pay and bleed, as the procedural and internal and external procedures and the next negotiations do. We are generally impressed by all this Scandalology, all this discussion and as it has evolved. The well-known cockfight, of course, didn't surprise us. However, we are feeling experienced - and we have now all of us in here, and those who are hearing us out huge experience all these years - that it also has concrete targets. There's also a number of issues behind what they look or what they're saying in here. After all, there are many examples from the international political scene of where they were targeting or better at where all the alleged anti-corruption operations - supposedly - were - or some occasional decisions on the subject of justice. There are many examples of this. I won't have time. The most essential thing, however, is that in the debates like today you do everything you can to cover up the main problem, that so-called corruption is the necessary complement to the legitimate pursuit of the best possible profit of businesses, to which you give very well or try to give your examinations very well. The violation of even this civil law, which you vote on, for the benefit of profitability, is simply the other side of the coin of the production of law for the benefit of capitalist profitability. This conclusion is evidenced by the fact that these phenomena embrace the whole world. It's not just a Greek phenomenon. And since some people may look like arrogance, some of these, the 'SIEMENS' scandal, for example, there is, of course. But there is also the extrajudicial compromise with Siemens, which is also challenging and scandalous, which acquits Siemens. And since he is such, why don't you bring law or amendment, gentlemen of the government, to abolish him? What have you done on this about two years that you're government? The solution is one: we in the next bill say that there is an amendment to cancel the extrajudicial compromise and that SIEMENS should pay the sums estimated by the Committee of Inquiry and which speak of many billions of euros. There, let's see you! Neither you nor Mr Mitsotakis respond, nor did you respond specifically to what the JRC has repeatedly proposed. Mr. Tsipras, misery unfortunately has no limits. You have even invoked Charilaos Floraki. Of course, if he were alive, he'd make you very well miserable in here, as he only knew. What exactly do you invoke? Those who fought the system that you now serve? What exactly are you asking for? Certifying thirty years ago, to justify today's suspects, your suspicious transactions in recent years with Calagrica and all the others? To justify your current policy? Those who were either members of the Left and Progress coalition after 1991, either PASOK strains, and after 1991 all the next decades, or those of the present SYRIZA, are all those who have been next to you since then and then with each left so-called Kalogrisa of your class. "The mule puts her husband with the prostitutes!" Well, a few cups, Mr. Tsipras, it doesn't hurt. On the contrary, it'll do you as good as it can make you in this great offense you've already taken. You speak of corrupt political and state officials and hide the great corruptant, which are the monopolistic groups. The large OECD survey in 2014, which studied four hundred and seven large state bribery cases in forty states, confirmed that those who mainly bribes are the large monopolistic groups to increase their profits and their market share. It showed that 5.7% of cases concerned mismatches, supplies, oil for the guarantee of public contracts. In cases where the average of a misery has exceeded 13 million dollars and, of course, related to the large, powerful states, the United States of America, Germany, Sweden and Italy. The Americans and the Swiss are in the first place among the countries that are refugee for large tax-raisers, which, of course, officially refuse to participate in the global system of exchanges of information for bank customers, in line with the OECD standards, which you normally call on. They defend tax and banking secrets with nails and teeth. You're on their way. More generally it is estimated that over 20 trillion private wealth dollars are hidden in tax havens and are not taxed at all. So those of you who are trying to hide the umbilical cord that connects these phenomena to the hunting of profit, presenting them as issues of morality, whose fight is supposedly dependent on the relative political will, all you do is mock the Greek people, the world. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent days the argument between the SYRIZA Government and the New Democracy, and the other parties, as regards the infamous independence of justice, has sprung up the debate in the Council of State on the constitutionality of the TV licence law, following a decision by the President of the court and the differences - resignations of the two Vice-Presidents, as well as Mr Tsipras' meeting with the Presidents of the Supreme Courts. In addition, in this bad climate that was created, we can only note the fact that the Prime Minister's statement had been preceded, which was actually ahead of us - and in a sense, and rightly so, many have been seized not undoubtedly as extortion - that the Council of State will not judge the law on television licences, even though in this respect it has just told us that he has just said so as an appreciation for the law he had brought here. The party controversy was reinforced by the recent Tsipras meeting with the presidents of the Supreme Courts, by circumventing legal associations, of course, which the previous Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, had done when he had been in a similar position in 2012, which the government used as an argument to justify today in response to the criticisms of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u456	2012 was a customary visit with Mr. Rupakiotis. It never happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u457	Of course, the Union of Judges and Prosecutors has issued a statement, which specifically raises the question of the remuneration of judges in relation to the Tsipras meeting with the others, banning the circumvention of judicial associations and attempting to create judges on two payrolls - and not just - of speeds. Of course, behind these are likely to be and play their special role and personal differences and entrepreneurialities in the judiciary and legal world, something like "the world has it "has a tomb and a secret pride" in this regard. But the JRC does not go into these issues and this is not the work of the House. The particular thing we want to focus on is that, behind all this fight with a peak of justice, we hide the rabies effort to control it, but also to influence it for the benefit of portions of groups who are hard-pressed in the field of the economy. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the game of disorientation of the people, to sit on the neck, on the chairs of power, to bleed him, cannot go away. I will be tempted to finish, before you get there, if you have not already arrived, after today's debate and as it evolved, to remind you of what Costas Varlanis wrote in his poem ten years ago, which reminded us of another similar case the day before yesterday: "Forty skates of beef with oiled boulders, steaks and dirty legs unscrupulously unscrupulous, twigs and corpses dressed in hair and official and handsome. Sixty wolves with probes (for them baran bells) ate pigs, drained damigans! And from the rehearsed deep they lay in the fireplaces, and loaves felt itch in the balls." Have a good night!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u458	Be well. Mr. Kammenos has the floor for a minute. He won't use any more of his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u459	Thank you, Mr President. One minute I'll talk, I don't want to abuse the time. I'll be very brief. We heard about blowjobs, etc. the poetry of the Secretary-General. I want to tell you how it collapses with a document, with an announcement from the whole set-up propaganda of an entire night. The New Democracy tried to charge the government Mr. Kalogerica. I shall therefore read to you - and I shall close with this - the announcement of 16 September 2015 of the candidate Member of the Lesbos Prefecture with New Democracy Mr Charalambos Athanasios. It is posted in ‘KALLONI NEWS’. "The candidate Member of Parliament for Lesvos with New Democracy Mr. Charalambos Athanasios visited the modern road project Kallonis - Sigrios, the first part of which is insecure. The road continues at the expense of the company "TOXOTIS S.A." - Kalogritsa, i.e. - although not paid from the beginning of the year due to the removal of the funds from the sectoral NSRF in all major projects by the Government of Tsipras - Kammenos. However, following Mr Athanasios' intervention, the company decided to continue its work at its own expense so as not to close the construction site in Lesvos and to enter into a holiday and other workers.' Following our actions with Mr Kalogrisa, we have set him up. Have a good night!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u460	What's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u461	The work to be made, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u462	Mr President, I would like a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u463	But it's not a matter. Please read a press release. All right, everybody helped make the play. The President of the Potamio Parliamentary Group, Mr Theodorakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u464	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief, 'cause we're all probably tired. Mr. Tsipras said before, with a strict style to everyone, that we should not throw mud and we should say names. He's not here, but I'm going to insist and I'm going to ask him sometime to answer what I caused him to answer. His party officially said in September 2015 that we are dealing with a party that serves organized interests. Tell us what those interests are. Be careful, though: Mrs. Gerovassili appeared as a troll mother and said that she did perform the trolls. Good for her!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u465	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u466	That's what he said. He said they were kids doing their job. To understand what we're saying, everyone on the Internet can write what they want. However, who pays the Greek state is not Mrs Gerovas's case. She's apologizing. If you see the internet right now, you'll understand what I'm saying. To bother to see the relevant posts. Everyone wonders how much troll the Greek state pays to swear the political opponents of Ms. Gerovasil and SYRIZA - ANEL. Let's remind her that he's a government representative, he's not the leader of a para-state mechanism. I now see, ladies and gentlemen, that a former ANEL stateman has come out, who also declares an advisor to Mrs Gerovas and Mr Pappa. His name is Christoforides, Christophorus, I don't know. I'm messing with names.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u467	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u468	Christophorides? It's kind of like that. And he says he'll end me. It's a post today and it's signed as a counselor to Mr. Pappa. How exactly will it end me? How much to laugh at with the cowardly advisors? That's my question. Now a brief answer to Mr....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u469	These are gossip...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u470	What do you want, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u471	He doesn't want anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u472	They write it every...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u473	Yeah, but you don't have employees paid by the Greek State to call you. Anyone can say their opinion. Government officials, however, should at least respect the pretexts. Now a brief answer to Mr. Kammenos. Mr Kammenos spoke about what my relationship with PROTAGON, etc., is a site that is a news site. Well, they will tell him in court, Stavros Theodorakis, on 28-6-2013, ceased to be President and CEO of "PROTAGON S.A.", that is eight months before entering politics. Since, however, we are talking about corruption, the question to Mr Kammenos was another: Who is anonymous in his service at the Ministry of Defence, who pays the Ministry of Defense to fight his opponents. We said two names. He didn't deny them. And I think we should at some point give a concrete answer to the government as a whole, Mr Tsipras, about who these people are, who are rewarded to do an orderly service to those whom the heads of government consider their opponents to be. I'm just finishing up with corruption. Unfortunately, Mr Tsipras, corruption is not a matter of the past. It is a problem of the present. And it will be the future, as long as there is a party state that haggles its survival, a party state that now has your seal. To be more precise, it has the SYRIZA - ANEL seal and many times, unfortunately, it also has the ANEL - SYRIZA seal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u474	Thank you very much Mr Theodorakis. The President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Leventis, has the floor. It is your turn, Mr President, and quickly, as they are all much tighter in their dentistry. It's not a suggestion. I'm just letting you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u475	Good evening again, Mr President, Mr President of the Government, and honourable Members here. I'm transferring to the Hall the opinion of a university professor who called me before I came. It wasn't a House image today. So the world that he saw is that there's a cockfight in here. It was not mentioned at all, but at all, the problems of the world. And they just heard one another. That was the picture. I saw you happy, because you were applauding very zealously, as if the Cyprus issue were resolved. Such zeal only at such times must be the Member of Parliament. Here, however, there is an acidity, an electric atmosphere and a fanaticism. I would like to say, since the Prime Minister is here, that I think that instead of cutting off the ESS and putting HIS in, he could cut the eighty thousand pensions of the rich. Why didn't we handle that? Australia is a big country. Canada is also a big country. I'm not saying we cut off pensions for poor people, but people who have more than 3,000 euros of rent, interest, company dividends. To cut off the wealthy pensions. Why do we prefer to cut off the CSCE, Mr Tsipras, and the subsidiary of very poor people? Why do we do that? Australia isn't a western country? Is Australia a communist? There was a study of what could be done, how much is the result we saved and what could we achieve with that? Why didn't you do that? Why do you prefer to conduct such horizontal policies, which and your image, Prime Minister, in the country and in the country are totally tearing it down? However, I do not think that the New Democracy has followed any other policy. You are talking about other policies, but also in Thessaloniki, I have not heard any policy at all. From New Democracy, when Mr Mitsotakis spoke in the Report, I have not heard any policy. He'll cut off, he says, 30% of HISPIA. So if ENVIA is now coming to a thousand euros in one and goes 700 euros, it's saved? Is that reason to vote for a party? Mr. Mitsotakis described his degrees. This is not a picture, the self-respecting for diplomas. At that time I was not expecting this from Mr Mitsotakis, whom I appreciate, and from whom I am telling you that I expect another moral to be a new person and not to be provoking himself for his degrees. His degrees were all abroad. Isn't that right? I don't think he got any degrees here. Anyway! And we know who goes abroad, if I'm not mistaken! I'm not implied, but I also respect the people who go...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u476	And Harvard?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u477	Harvard! And Andreas Papandreou of Yale was, but he put a million people in public, you know! And if Greece went bankrupt, by 80%, it was because of it. Well, let's leave Harvard and MIT. Here, in practice, proves the ability of a man, a politician, a thousand degrees to have. I watched every Sunday in SKAI a Mally who was making economists. Today I saw the President of IOBE, and I tell him that I have freaked out with the economists, because what they have been saying on the channels has been inconsiderate. So people were out of place and time. Common sense wants politics. Krutchev was a chemist. He hadn't finished MIT. Understood! In any case, I would like to remind Mr Tsipras that I have told him not to pass bills with a hundred and fifty-three votes. Don't let him get through it. As long as it remains in power, it does not pass bills with a hundred and fifty - three votes, because these bills are bills that are not acceptable to society. In Astoria, I spoke, I was asked who's worse, SYRIZA or New Democracy. They didn't ask me who's best. That is in response to the applause you have given both sides. Foreigners were asking who's the worst, not who's the best. Now, if you guys could applaud with the same intensity, it's your case. Because the journalists ask me, if Mitsotakis gets out first tomorrow, if the Centro Association can give him seats, I'll tell them. The nine points I have sent to Mr Tsipras, the same nine points for Mr Mitsotakis to wait. And because we already have them, if he wants, I'm sending them to him right now, because they won't change. These are points which say, to say the pensions, that the three hundred thousand triple pensions must become ones and no one must be more than EUR 1,500. Also, there are over a million double pensions. They also need to be united and nothing more than EUR 1,500 if we want to solve the insurance problem. Because this law, today, does not solve it, delays it, delays its death for no time. The Minister knows that, too. But New Democracy, which wants to start hopes that - I also saw Mr Mitsotakis from the polls getting too much courage - is a potential government, why does it not draw up a programme? He says he'll make it. A party that ruled until last year will draw up a schedule for one, will draw up a schedule for the other. You have the right to improve your schedule, but you haven't had a program so far. So if you improve zero, you'll still be zero. Improved zero is zero. Mr. Samaras, why didn't he bring an investment, since you're a liberal party, so the world of investment trusts you? Why didn't one of them come in at the Samaras, even a prick pin? You should have brought five investments, said you would now bring ten, more capable of Mitsotakis than Samaras, to bring in five, ten instead. You didn't bring anything. On the contrary, as I have stressed, Mr. Samaras also made a slip, he made a bond to prove that we are on the markets beforehand. This bond still runs at a 6% interest rate, while it was able with the program to borrow with 1%. And that was only for a vote to convince the Greek people that we are done with the memorials. For Mr Tsipras I still have to say that there is an outstanding thing with society. He must apologise for what January said, which people know. In September, whatever was said, it could have been said between politicians, between experts. In September, the world didn't understand anything, it just felt that it didn't make it possible to overthrow Tsipras, it was a burden inside his party and they left and wanted to give Mr. Tsipras another extension of the people. But Genaris is naughty in his mind what Mr Tsipras said and about these things he must apologise for the youth as well, because youth heard that there is a third road and a third road is not there. And the Prime Minister cannot remain without giving an apology. It's a big deal. I'm going back, Mr. Tsipras. They're not saying you're the one who destroyed the country. She was destroyed by the previous ones. That's not what they say. But they say that you have started dreams, which you have shattered, and your responsibility is enormous. In red loans, the proposal I made, do not throw it away in advance, do not reject it. I say: those who are to buy the funds, the loans, at the same price, give them to the beneficiaries. Give a two-month period and those who can, buy at the price that the funds will buy, take advantage of private individuals. Why don't you do that? That is what the whole Chamber had to welcome after a great deal of time. Why don't you welcome it? At the price of the funds, this 20%, those who can testify the money, save their home, because we will have suicides in this case. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President is ringing.]] Time is running out, I respect that, because we're tired. In addition, next Monday, you know, on 17 October, I'm having a gathering, the Centroon Union, that is, "Athens". It was to do it today, but because I had anticipated what you would do to us here today with the cohort battles, I postponed it on time for the next Monday at 7:00 in the afternoon, at the center of "Athenais" in Ghazi. On 17 October, you are invited, everyone you want, but there will not be a cohort, there will be a serious debate. It's a citizens' gathering with personality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u478	Be well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u479	The invitation...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u480	Mr. Papadopoulos, you won't be representing next Monday, you will be Larissa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u481	No, I'll go if the President calls.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u482	Thank you. Mr Pappas has the floor for a brief speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u483	I do not want to take the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u484	You don't want to. The Minister has the floor for a brief speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u485	For two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u486	For four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u487	Four. After all, sixteen minutes I had spoken before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u488	I know. I've added it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u489	As I said to the President, ladies and gentlemen, I will only use four, because I want to be consistent with the twenty-minute time I am entitled to prologism and denology. Very briefly, therefore, I will repeat the appeal to all the political forces in the country for two things: the war against interoperable, corruption, which, as I said before, is parastated, must be totalitarian. In a totalitarian war, therefore, there is a need to retire. This is all about us. As I said in my prototype, I was delighted - and I meant it - by the proposals made by Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Theodorakis, who, for the first time, I think, spoke about justice, were not content with complaints about alleged interventions by the Government, but also had proposals. I think that's a good start. Only I said that most of the government's proposals have already been launched. Also, my second appeal is this. And I really mean it, and I want you to understand me, because I come from the field of justice and let things be heard about my origin. Justice must remain calm and undiminished in its work. There's no need for surgery. Judges and prosecutors in their vast majority are honest, competent, labour and loyal to their duty. A few weeds that have been abducted in recent years, we don't even have to tear them out. They're going to get their own. This is where you will allow me to complete the Prime Minister a little bit. When he spoke of the black funds of "SIEMENS", he forgot about a small party of centre-rights, which, according to a statement by a large executive of "SIEMENS" who said there is a small party of centre-right, which is not in the House now. I don't know if I have time to deal with centre-right parties, so we can end up with which party it was. I leave that in your creative imagination. I also forgot that at the party in the armaments programs, when I said that it is not possible to pay only Tsohatzopoulos and Sbokos, that there was a KYSEA. There are at least no political responsibilities there? There was also a SUAP, which I forgot to say. I will also say that it does not facilitate the independence of the judiciary by political parties - we will all understand who we mean - when they say: 'we will monitor the law'. Isn't this a business of intimidation and manipulation of justice? Isn't it an intervention in her independence? Also, another foul argument, which was heard on TV channels, was that the government, in trying to manipulate justice, has not paid the views of the Vice Presidents. I would like to point out that the positions of the Vice-Presidents who have not been paid do not concern the CPI. They are three Vice-Presidents of the Ice Bay and one Court of Auditors. So, here too, we see a rush, a way to charge the government with something that is not in its intentions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u490	Why have these not been covered?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u491	Mr. Athanasios, always consistent in your line:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u492	Why are you attracting me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u493	I would also like to say that it has been heard that the government has intervened and replaced the Chief of Prosecutors of Economic Crime and the Governor of the CDEO. In order to restore the truth, I must say that no involvement by the government in these two changes had taken place. The Head of the CEFOP, Mr. Masina, has been replaced by the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, which is an independent authority and, as of 1 January, is armed with more institutions for its independence. Mr Masinas, in my view, is a competent and experienced state official and the government had no reason to change him. It was a matter of assessing the independent authority of the General Secretariat of Income. As for the Chief of Economic Prosecutor, the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, there was no intervention by the Government. It was replaced by the competent judiciary. These are, in order to remove any misunderstandings about alleged interference in justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u494	Thank you, Minister. The meeting is closed with the Prime Minister's tripartite speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u495	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that those who have been attending this debate must have drawn useful conclusions on what we have learned today and what we have not learned. I would say, of course, that what we did not know is more. Because by following Mr Mitsotakis on the persistent questions relating to very specific issues, he has constantly attempted to "fly the ball on the platform". In my first speech and in the second speech I asked him very specific things and the answers he gave at the end are answers which cannot convince anyone and I will explain why. In short, I would say that his positions reminded me of the fine, old inspection, the famous inspection "Other words to be loved". On this earlier agenda, however, we have learned from the lips of Mr Mitsotakis that there is indeed a 'SIEMENS' scandal and that is a significant step forward. In this pre-dated provision of a debate on complexity and corruption, I was also surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that they chose to be absent from three leading New Democracy officials: Mr Samaras and Mr Karamanlis, who have been Prime Minister of the New Democracy Party, but also Mr Meimarakis, the former President of the New Democracy. And I am impressed by this choice of their absence. Someone could assume that this absence has some deeper meaning, but I do not want to enter the internals of the other party, the New Democracy. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, at this meeting in the pre-dated debate in the House on strife and corruption, we learned that Mr Mitsotakis made a very great effort, when I took "the ring" from Alavanos, to be weaned by the name of the heavy burden he carries and to be a self-creating politician. Of course, I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, many self-creators, despite the fact that they have too many degrees and study abroad - perhaps even more than Mr Mitsotakis - as soon as they come to the country to get a job at the National Bank with EUR 15,000 monthly income. And I say this because, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis, we are heard by the Greek people and the Greek people, too, know our routes and our walks and our steps. When I was in my first speech I told you that you blamed me for my experiences at the previous meeting, precisely what I meant, that you accused me of being in social struggles and occupations, while at the same time you took your first steps in the political life of the place by making use of it, as much as you wish to hide it, the very important political weight of your family and the name of your father, and the fact that you had a number of facilities to which I have referred. And you said that I lowered the level and spoke in vulgar words. Why is these words vulgar? Haven't they? You also said, Mr Mitsotakis, that you are paying back your party's loan. I would like to say and inform the House that even if 100% of state funding in terms of PASOK and New Democracy were to be allocated to the banks today - and there is a contradiction here because you said, and in March you said, that you would bring a proposal for 100%, while I learn that representatives are speaking of you for 60% - even if 100% of State funding is transferred from here to now - which we are also discussing the new law on the financing of the parties, I do not know if it will be - but state funding, tactical and research, it is EUR 1.712,738 for New Democracy and EUR 428,204 for PASOK. You realise, then, that even 100% of the loan is transferred to the banks, you do not pay back your loans, you do not pay back in a hundred or twenty-two years, while PASOK in four hundred forty-three years! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It takes a hundred and twenty-two years for you and four hundred forty-three for PASOK! The Greek people must know that. As also, the Greek people must know that in April 2012 what happened to the Greek Parliament with the Yannitsi amendment, was a very big scandal, a huge scandal, because then they all knew that there were no such huge sums for grants and that your parties' percentages have shrinked. However, you have decided to hold elections, PASOK and New Democracy, with the money of the Greek people. SYRIZA does have a loan. It is neither two hundred ten million nor a hundred eighty million. It's about eight million, which they serve. It's all served, we don't have red loans. Also, Mr Mitsotakis, you said that there are auctions in the country, that we are making them, and you again referred to a post of the "First THEM". Continuous publications of the "First Theme". So I did a rough investigation to see if there are indeed working dwellings in Eusmos, for you spoke of October 19th for work dwellings. In communication with the Mayor of Evrosmos, Mr. Peter Soula, he assured us that there is no working residence in Evosmos. So let's see who's telling the truth and who's lying to the Greek Parliament. And in another communication we had with the President of Thessaloniki Symbolists, Mr. Bilisi - Chrosala Ioanna, he told us that since the beginning of 2016 no first residence has been auctioned in the courts of Thessaloniki. Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u496	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u497	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u498	There are issues cleared up, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u499	I'm closing up with two issues. Mr. Mitsotakis said that I was the one throwing the level and that today I decided to speak grossly. He also said that today I lied and that I must be ashamed of these lies, as far as the case of the 'Creation of Chania' and 'SIEMENS' is concerned. I would not like to mention the third time, but I was not going to leave it, Mr Mitsotakis, nor the 'boss', nor the 'boss' or the 'boss'. From morning to night, that's what you say. I would therefore like to say to you, Mr Mitsotakis, that today we have also learned something about the 'Greek of Chania'. You admitted that it was going to be regulated - SYRIZA had to come after ten years - but you changed your position completely, the position that your father, Constantine Mitsotakis, had to have on July 13, 2016, in relation to this loan. Now let's see who's lying and who's telling truths? By means of a written notice, it said that in March 2005, in any case, this loan was taken over by one of the guarantors. And I think that with what you said in the House you did not expose yourself, but your father, who had declared that the loan had been granted to a third party. So the truth about this loan is that it was received in 2005 and by December 2015, ten years, no single euro had been granted. Typically this loan should have been terminated by Piraeus Bank in ninety days from the first letter that it must be repaid, from the first point of view, in ninety days, i.e. in 2006. Also, the addition of the property is second series, i.e. it has already been predetermined to other loans, if I'm not mistaken, by the Panghretia Bank. And so, SYRIZA had to come in 2016 to a committee of Parliament for a forgotten loan of yours for ten years, put it in Parliament and admit that it will be regulated. And you come here and say I'm the liar, I'm the slander, and I must be ashamed of myself! No, Mr. Mitsotakis, I shouldn't be ashamed of myself. I close with the notorious issue of 'SIEMENS', not generally and vaguely, because it is an issue that has shaken the political life of the country. The Greek people have drawn conclusions. Juice, I didn't talk. Others report other matters. I never talk about family responsibility. When I speak to you, I speak personally about your own responsibilities, about your own actions. Search them on websites that have been published by New Democracy, not by me. But you have come and said again that I must be ashamed, that I am dropping the level, that I am too vulgar, because I said something self-evident: "Tell us if there is a SIEMENS scandal and what your participation is in this." You said, therefore, that I am lying because you had no facility from Mr Christoforikos, despite the fact that in his diary the man - the key to this case, who is abroad - is in Germany - is in Germany because he cannot be tried twice on the same subject - that is the economic justification for which he does not come to trial and speak - Mr Christoforikos, therefore, the man - key, in his own calendar, says that he had three hundred-six meetings with you. And you're saying that all this is lies and that I'm a slander because he never paid you office equipment when you took your steps, self-creating otherwise. So I would just like to say the truth. For no other reason, I am not presenting what I am presenting to the House. In fact, Mr Mitsotakis, you have paid back the technical equipment in your office, but only when this scandal was excavated in public. For the truth, I would like to present to Parliament the corresponding letter from Mrs Tsakalou, Mr Christoforkos, to Mr Christoforikos, dated 25-1-2008, which says: "Mr. Christoforikos, Mr. Fisser instructed me to inform you that "SIEMENS SA" does not bear any equipment costs of Mr.Mitsotakis' political office, as Dionysios Michalopoulou, on behalf of FUJITSU - SIEMENS." Who's Mr. Fisher? Headquarters. In other words, Mrs Tsakalou, Mr Christoforikos' secretary, informed us that she received the message from the centre that Mr Christoforikos' requests for the payment of the equipment of Mr Mitsotakis' office will not be met. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to deal with this matter anymore. I just want to say one thing: everyone in this place has his path, he has his walk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u500	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u501	Yeah, but SYRIZA, though...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u502	Mr. Athanasios, let me say my last sentence. I would never...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u503	Why did you vote white?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u504	Mr. Athanasios, let me finish. So, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis, I would never get to deal with what you were doing in 2008 if you were not the one who came here to talk about personal journeys and personal experiences. I will always deal with judging your things, and that is what I judge today. Your current reality is that since the first moment of your election you have allied with the most extreme and interdependent forces of the mid-cycle with one single goal, to cast a government that has been elected for four months. So it's time to see who's involved in the conflict and who wants to put order and bring the clearance to this place. And no matter how many people who support them and support you, they want to believe today that this government will either be terrified, blackmailed or backed up, a message I want to give them: We're not going back but to take fora. We'll finish the clearance case. We will finish the case of the Media and Licensing and the involvement in the place, which has a name, will finally find its mask. The complexity of the site will end and end in an institutional way! I'd like you to be ally in this effort. Unfortunately you chose to be across the street. The Greek people will judge us. And I believe that we are also judged by today's debate and when the time comes. Because the elections are not held every three minutes, Mr Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u505	You say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u506	Elections shall be held at regular intervals laid down in the Constitution, unless the parliamentary majority is lost. And, as we have proved, in the difficult circumstances, this parliamentary majority is sloppy and will remain until 2019, where we will be holding elections, and then we will compare the events. It is certain that the Greek people will again deliver their verdict in a straightforward manner.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u507	The debate on a pre-dated order under Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure, held at the initiative of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, at the level of party leaders, on the phenomena of inter- and corruption and their influence on the country's institutional and political system and their treatment, has been concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-10-S1-commons.u508	With the agreement of the House at no time of 23.46' the sitting for Wednesday, 12 October 2016 at 12.00' is closed on the subject of Parliament's work: discussion and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Article 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members' immunity, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
