ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. Before entering the agenda, I have the honour of announcing to the House that the Standing Committee on Forum on Education, Research and Religious Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: 'Research Regulations and other provisions'. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Single debate and vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: 'Research and other provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 21 April 2016 to discuss this draft law at two meetings. The draft law will be discussed in the sitting at the beginning. The articles and amendments of the bill will be discussed in the morning sitting. Parliamentary Representatives from the parties have been appointed: Mrs Fotini Vakis from SYRIZA, Mr Nikolaos Dendias from the New Democracy, Mr Evangelos Karakostas from the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos from the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr George Amyras from Potamis, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis from the Independent Greeks and Mr George - Dimitrios Karras from the Union of Kentrons. Rapporteurs have been appointed by Mr Konstantinos Gavroglou from SYRIZA and Mrs Maria Antoniou from New Democracy. The following colleagues have been appointed. Mr. Nikolaos Kouzilos from the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos from the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR, Mr. Stavros Tassos from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. George Mavrotas from Potamis from Potami, Mr. Konstantinos Zouraris from the Independent Greeks and Mr. Marios Georgiadis from the Centron Association. Parliamentary representatives have the right to protology, dentology and tritology twelve, six and three minutes respectively. The rapporteurs and the special speakers have fifteen minutes of prototype and seven minutes of dentistry. The Prime Minister, if present, has twenty minutes of speaking time, the President of the New Democracy twenty minutes, the President of the People's Association - Golden Dawn 15 minutes, the President of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR 15 minutes, the President of the KIC 15 minutes, the President of the Party on the River 15 minutes, the President of the Independent Greeks 15 minutes and the President of the Union of Centroon 15 minutes. I would ask the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Konstantinos Fotakis, to take the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u3	Here, Mr. Fotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by referring to the philosophy of the policy that we are shaping for research and innovation in the country and which is reflected in the legislative initiatives that we have planned. The main aim of this policy is knowledge, produced by research as a self-defence to contribute to the broadening of the spiritual horizons of society and the innovation resulting from research, to be a lever for growth by shaping the knowledge economy, the economy based on the use of research results. What we aspire is the knowledge economy once to be a development pole for the country next to the primary sector, tourism and shipping. This is where the first key question arises. How will wealth be created by research, how will this wealth have a clear social impact and how will it return to society? Many attempts have been made in this respect in the past. I would like to mention, in the period 2008-2016, that more than EUR 6 billion was made available from public funds for this purpose. However, the results have been poor. The gap in innovation in the country is still large, despite some marginal improvements that have taken place. There is certainly a need for a new approach, a new way of thinking, which will take into account how the international landscape is currently formed in research, mainly characterised by the globalization of knowledge. Especially in the last decade, mainly due to developments, progress in the field of information and communication, globalization of knowledge has been intensified, which creates new opportunities and possible side effects. As far as our country is concerned, there is a great challenge, resulting from the deep economic and social crisis. This has nothing to do with the fact that the conditions of the crisis require immediate and effective measures to support research, they require emergency measures. We must support directly and effectively what is already in place and at the same time create prospects for the future. This need for direct actions to be taken for rapid results is at odds with the fact that translation of research and innovation into wealth is not happening sharply or suddenly. A systematic step-by-step approach is needed, an approach that takes account of international labour-sharing, the country's historical data, the labour relations prevailing, the dominant culture and much more. It needs an approach that systematically strengthens our comparative advantages and cures weaknesses. To combine these two contradictory elements, we must turn to the famous chain of innovation, namely the chain linking knowledge and innovation produced in the research ecosystem, with the development of innovative products, processes and, of course, the markets that can welcome them. The development of healthy and innovative entrepreneurship is the vehicle to create wealth and depends closely on the intermediate part of this chain, where most business initiatives die. That is why, moreover, this part is often called 'the valley of death'. The chain of innovation in Europe is characterised by the famous European paradox. It becomes a good science in Europe, but its exploitation is lags behind. Well, Greece is a special case, a strong expression of this European paradox. The country's scientific performance is very good internationally. I would just like to mention one or two elements. In the Seventh Programme - the framework programme of the European Commission - Greek researchers from IOIs, from research centres and the private sector, managed to attract more than EUR 1 billion more than 2%, much more than that corresponding to Greece. Furthermore, as recently announced by the Committee - a few weeks ago - five Greek research centres are among the fifty best in Europe in terms of their performance in Horizon 2020. But the gap in the use of knowledge and innovation is great. There are intermediate rings in this chain, which are either missing or very weak. The limited support for the potential in the country, people and infrastructure, the prevailing dominant culture that often promotes state-owned entrepreneurship or punishes failure - a big issue - the daring legislative and institutional framework that creates suffocation conditions and the lack of stable and flexible financial instruments, are some of the pathogens that we are about to face. Although this situation has been created for many years, it has recently been intensified because of the crisis. So, on this basis, we are shaping our policy and the respective legislative initiatives, intervening in the weak points in the innovation chain. We are trying to get rid of past hunger, to improve the institutional and legislative framework governing research, to develop new, effective financial instruments and mechanisms to support innovative entrepreneurship. Above all, we are trying to support the most important chapter that the country has, our strong card, and that is what people, young scientists and researchers are. To this end, we have designed three legislative interventions, which cannot be combined in one, since, although they are of a complementary nature, they have different targets and different incubation horizons. The first is the draft law which directly tackles the urgent problems, which concern the proper functioning of research centres with extensive amendments to Law4310, which is currently in force. At the same time, the bases for follow-up come in. The second legislative intervention is the starting point for the future. It is an initiative that aims to support what is good today in Greece's research area and to create the conditions for the development of a genuine national research policy by creating a new and flexible financial instrument, a fund that operates alongside funding from Horizon 2020, which is characterised by great uncertainty due to the intense competition that exists from the NSRF, limited by rules and strangles linked to the NSRF in general in Europe with the Structural Funds, a fund dedicated exclusively to supporting research and new entrepreneurship at an early stage. It is this stage where, because of the great risk of entrepreneurial risk, private investment is not available or is scarce. At this stage, the state's regulatory and financial role is catalytic and important. The resources of this new Fund will come from the leverage of public and private resources and will be additional to those of the ESDP and Horizon 2020. Their management will be conducted by an Foundation, the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation - for those who know it, it is something like the ENSF in America or something like the DFG in Germany - which will implement the research strategy prepared by the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology in a transparent and impartial manner. This will be done independently of thematic and geographical quotas. For example, the country's so important humanitarian and social science research is not supported by the ESRB, but can be financed by this fund. In the first phase, we hope that from the second half of 2016, funds of EUR 240 million will begin to be made available for the next three years. These resources will be made available to support jobs for young scientists, to provide scholarships, to implement high-level programmes at universities and research centres and to develop research infrastructures. In a second phase, this Foundation will manage seed capital, directed at newly-integrated enterprises and more general knowledge-intensive firms. This initiative is expected to lead to take-off, to be a strong injection into the country's academic and research ecosystem, to also strengthen newly entrepreneurial entrepreneurship, to create opportunities and prospects, by putting implosions in the atmosphere of misery, often prevailing. At the same time, the basis for a long, dynamic and sustainable development of research in the country will be laid. The third bill we are planning is to create a holistic framework for the development of the single research and education area. It will also include elements needed for the productive reconstruction of the country through research, through effective coordination of research structures supervised by various Ministries with a peak in rural development, national defence, environment, energy and industry. It will also include coordination of provisions of development law, tax incentives, intellectual property management issues, support mechanisms for enterprises linking research to development. The bill is due to have taken the final form of an integrated plan toward the end of the year. It is, therefore, clear that all the above, they cannot get involved in a single draft law. By focusing now on the first twenty-fifth articles of the research bill to be passed, I would like to point out that these include extensive amendments to Law No.4310/2014 in order to address contradictions, ambiguity and legal defects contained in this law. This is necessary in order to ensure the proper functioning of research centres and the lifting of inhibiting hooks. At the same time, the foundations for legislative initiatives are laid down. I would therefore describe this as a draft 'extreme need' bill. That is why the criticism that has been made in the debate in committee in terms of its fragmentation, I think it is too much. On the contrary, I should point out that all the bodies, irrespective of the criticisms and objections they expressed about this draft law at the hearing in committee, recognised that this was a serious improvement in the provisions of Law No.4310/2014. I would now like to focus on certain specific features of the draft law to be passed. These are provisions improving working conditions for the research and administrative staff of the research centres and creating attractive opportunities for young scientists to work at the IOIs and the research centres of the country through the provision of merital procedures. They reform the Board of Directors of Research Centres and upgrade the role of the ESRB, facilitate the management of research projects and the absorption of resources of the ESRB. Finally, they are faced with chronic distortions concerning the EITs and research centres' ERICs. At the heart of our efforts I must stress that the pursuit of quality and excellence, of excellence without discounts, is a prerequisite for success. I would like to point out here the word 'purpose'. This is a process of dynamic, which is not punishable and is not a pretext of pretext of arrogance or of enforcing rulership, which is on the reverse of excellence. On the contrary, the aim of excellence is to strengthen the strong points - where they exist - to strengthen people and structures and to alleviate weaknesses, wherever they exist. That's how we understand excellence. Support for the staff of research centres as well as the new scientists outside the system are of absolute priority in our planning. The existence of flexibility in a stable and simple institutional environment that creates legal certainty is diffuse in various articles of the law. This is a legal framework adapted to the specificities of the investigation, while at the same time ensuring the interests of public and research staff. This approach creates a favourable environment that is attractive to young scientists, as well as opportunities to develop healthy entrepreneurship by exploiting innovation. I would like here before I close, to mention an example relating to the choice of the preferred employment relationship, which may have new scientists, whether this is a work contract or a project contract, but also something else concerning scientists, who are outside the system, scientists who can submit their own research proposals and if they are positive, to be scientists themselves responsible for the implementation of the projects they are carrying out. This is of particular importance, because this stimulates their creativity and at the same time is an important incentive to work research in the country. There are many other things that I shall mention during the debate. But I would like to close here, with one element that I consider to be very important and enthusiastic for the entire academic and research community. In Article 24 of the bill there are some arrangements for university ERICs, namely to cover operating expenses and mainly cleaning, storage and additional fees. If we look at what is happening in recent years, we will see that teachers, researchers participating in collective bodies are being dragged to the courts for the use of such resources. I'm talking about use and not abuse. I would like to stress that this is a request from the Committee on Budgets, the meeting of the chairmen of the research centres, but also from bodies of researchers and workers as we heard in the committee. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Just give me one more minute, Mr President, I'll be done. Here I would like to stress that although administrations in the criminal field are almost always acquitted, since there is no fraud, there are high-priced charges on universities, on researchers. Even in students there have been examples. I would like to stress here another point: that all these people come from the whole political spectrum - it is a colorful shape - and not only that, but they are swept through and seduced by people who have offered the greatest for the common good. Something needs to be done about it. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed regulations on research are an important step forward. They improve the functioning of research bodies, relieve them of stunts that have been agitated by universities and research centres for years and ensure good governance of research. They also include measures that create attractive opportunities for young scientists, for young researchers, to halt the wave of fleeing abroad and to lay the foundations for the effective use of knowledge and innovation resulting from scientific research. Overall we are convinced that these legislative regulations are a first sure step towards promoting the case of research in the country and we are calling for their vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Fotakis. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Gavroglou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about two major categories of issues. The first category is the framework within which this bill is proposed and the second is the core of the reflection of the draft law. What is the framework in which his vote is proposed? This framework is characterised by the following: Firstly, our Memorandumary Obligations on Education should not be missed. These are issues that are progressing satisfactorily, although too late. Part of these debates is the 2011 OECD report on our place, a report that is now undisturbed, is based on evidence before the crisis and creates a suffocating framework. After very laborious discussions we were able to accept the OECD drafting a new report. Secondly, the absolute priority that the government gives - and I am sure it is not just the government - is to open the schools in September. It is a national obligation for us to stop once and for all when it comes to opening the schools. So all of us must be the priority to open the schools in September, to start the university year with as few problems as possible. Obviously we know that without brave funding and regular teachers' appointments neither the schools nor the HEIs can achieve their main destination. So all those measures must be taken so that within this framework they can realistically open up schools and universities. Thirdly, as is the case with the research bill, along with the national and social dialogue on education, a number of decisions and measures have already been taken on a number of important and urgent issues. The research bill is therefore very important to understand that it is not discussed and that it does not come to vote on a gap but complements a series of initiatives by the Ministry of Education. I would like to mention them, for example, in order to understand precisely this framework, which aims at the proper functioning of educational and research institutions. Firstly, it has already been decided that since next school year, there will be a single type of full-day school, with enriched programme, with a second foreign language and with art and aesthetic education courses. Secondly, the work has been completed so that a radical rationalisation of the high school schedule can be applied as early as September. Those of you who have any relationship through children, relatives or personalities with high school know that there are huge problems in rationalising the timetables and of course limiting the extent of the curriculum. Also, the modulation of the method of evaluating pupils, the increase in the number of weeks of teaching to be extended by the end of May, as well as the reduction in the weekly timetable are some of the initiatives to achieve this rationalisation for the schools that I have spoken about. There are also proposals for teaching, whose books have been fully judged but completely inappropriate. I have spoken with many Members from all the parties in this House and there is indeed an agreement on a number of very specific books, which are completely inappropriate for teaching. There is, of course, also the question of teacher training, particularly on the major issue, the major issue raised here by many wings, the inclusion and differentiated teaching and support of pupils with special learning needs. This bill comes again to complete another request, which we have heard from too many teachers in recent months, the implementation of the self-assessment of teachers and the evaluation of school units. These are things that teachers from morning to night at school, giving the scary battle to stand on her feet, asking urgently. Finally, the mosaic of the initiatives to which this bill also applies has the beginning of the debate on the single research and training area, namely the reform, recasting of relations between universities, TEIs and research centres. As a first priority, the procedures under which the TEIs will be upgraded should be laid down here, many of which are already equivalent to university departments. Of course another pillar of the single area is mobility between researchers and teaching staff between universities, TEIs and research centres. This will create critical masses, in terms of research activities, educational activities and optimise the use of infrastructure. It is quite obvious that no one is talking about all this being done with a view to any dismissal of any colleague. So the creation of the full-day schools, the radical rationalisation of the school schedule, the limitation of the scope of material, the education of teachers, the evaluation of the educational unit, the single research and education area, part of which is the upgrading of TEIs and the new law on postgraduate courses, is the framework in which it comes to button or if you want the first legislation in this direction, it is the bill we are debating today. Let me now go to the core of the reflection of this bill. I do not want my views to be demarcated as to whatever negative and bad of the previous situation. I think that we have discussed it in detail, the researchers have placed themselves, the research centres have been placed, and there is no point in decaying the philosophy of this bill. Research is one of the most complex activities in a society. This synonym and the diversity of research cannot be described in either a framework of law or rules. Research activity that produces new knowledge, by definition creates new hierarchies. Here, therefore, is the extremely complex issue, which is the first step taken by the bill, which has to do with the democratic operation of research centres, with the democratic structure of activities through which research is produced, but, as I have said, activities that feed up the hierarchies. The third topic of reflection relates to something which concerns the government, such as, once again, personal speeches I have made with colleagues from all the parties - it concerns both our colleagues and our society as a whole. We are a society in which normality has been lost. There is no regularity in today's society. The crisis as it came and the way it was managed has overthrown and undermined normality. If, therefore, a regularity is not achieved, no law on research and education will have the benefits it promises. Unfortunately, normality cannot be achieved by laws and rules. Regularity is much more complex, has something to do with the social forces and the consents that they can get together. That is why we should see whether the bill even takes a first step in order to enable industrial relations to give creativity, a promotion in research centres. Here you will allow me to mention two points on the issue of normality in our country, two points on which I think we must bend on them, regardless of party backgrounds. One of the problems is an unconditional faith in the effectiveness of the market. The bill provides very clearly how the private initiative will relate to research centres and universities under state supervision. However, this does not mean that companies should not seek new forms of cooperation. Businesses cannot stay as they are and are considered to be doing some thanks to research centres and universities. Unfortunately, our experience of cooperation with businesses is not very positive so far. Therefore, businesses and the private sector should also rethink the conditions with which they are involved in research, the conditions under which they want to use innovations and thus invest themselves in this direction. The second issue, however, which again undermines normality, is something that works paralysed in many promotional initiatives taken. I am not talking about claiming ever better working conditions than workers. She needs to be intensified. I am referring to an alteration many times, including researchers and teachers, who, instead of exercising a social function which should guide their day-to-day function, find a bureaucraticisation of them. We find a co-existence, which is quite clear that it does not express either a majority of researchers and teachers, but it is a situation which does not help either the social face of these particular categories or the social function they perform. So we have to see how the consolidation of this bureaucraticised daily life can be phased out, so that what the bill says and what is said in general can be promoted. Finally, the bill is trying to do something else on a first level but very serious. In Europe today there is a huge debate on research and universities. This debate is not about imposing a model on others. That was 15 years ago with Bologna. Today there is a critical distance from models. So there is a search in Europe and institutional, as to the suitability of educational and research institutions, but there are also various initiatives taken mainly underneath, mainly in connection with the interconnection of research groups or the interconnection of educational groups that have very interesting information to tell us. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We have a huge experience and research and also educational. We can also through our discussions on this bill and in general through our involvement with other social actors, also appropriately influence these discussions at European level. That is what I wanted to say about the general philosophy of the law and we will have the opportunity to discuss the individual articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Gabroglou. Mrs Antoniou, rapporteur on the New Democracy side, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I wish for many years and Christ Anestis to all colleagues before we begin. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary the bill of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: 'Research and other provisions'. Before I begin with the contents of the bill, I could not have referred to what has happened in the process of tabling this bill. Unfortunately, once again, we have witnessed a process which affects us all and is a reproach for parliamentary data. This bill was filed on Monday night 12 April. He withdrew on Tuesday April 13th in the morning and re-issued on the afternoon of the same day. The excuse, Minister, according to what you yourself claimed at the joint meeting of the relevant committees, was that a previous version of the bill was filed and uploaded to the website of the House. You have even rendered the mistake - and I am reading your statement - to the girl of the Government Secretariat who makes the posts, who took the previous one and not the last version of the bill. Finally, Minister, it seems that you were wrong to accuse the girl, who probably did not make a mistake, since the re-established bill - timid - the photographic provision of Article 30(7) was absent - a provision, as was described by many means as "washing machine", which was intended, to get rid of the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism George Stathakis, of the judicial uncertainties he had when he was a professor at the University of Crete. You are now coming and reinstate it on the side road, under the number 362/26-4-2016 parliamentary amendment by six members of the SYRIZA. Literally reintroduce the contents of the withdrawn article by providing that all other educational, educational, developmental activities of the university, with the exception of purely research, which have been characterised - hear - 'unsubstantiated payments', according to the Management Report of the Directorate-General for Economic Affairs, if they have not been carried out until the publication of this amendment - says the amendment - are removed and not implemented and any amounts confirmed are deleted. These Members - as if they were judges - are, in fact, rushing to make a verdict, not least because they say that the costs which - I repeat - have been described as 'insurmountable payments' by the Directorate-General for Economic Affairs have always been made transparently and without the slightest suspicion of individual interest. I wonder, Minister, whether you will accept such an amendment, which you have often claimed to be justice. So why, Minister, on the one hand, are you talking about the secretarial error and, on the other hand, your MPs are rushing to reintroduce regulation on the subject? Not because of Easter, I guess. Are you going to answer us? So, once again, the so-called moral advantage of your left government and the methods used to cover past cases is being dismantled. However, this is not, unfortunately, the only photographic provision in the bill. There are many others to which I shall refer in detail, as I have referred to in my report. I told the committee, Mr. Friend, that the journalist's profession should probably be turned into a photojournalist and even an old album, because with so many photographic arrangements that the bill has rather like an old album. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is not a coherent bill with the beginning, the middle and the end. It is nothing but a rough stitching of scattered regulations for research, higher education, primary and secondary. In addition to the provisions of the bill, we had thirty-nine - now we have forty-two, if I am not mistaken - in the short term. That's unbelievable! There are six ministerial amendments, five of which are irrelevant to the bill. I also told the Commission that the Committee on Social Affairs is also in place to table the ministerial amendments. Why should they be submitted to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media in this bill? This is another example of your government's misrepresentation. It is a good thing that in this drawer of provisions and amendments, you have found a little room, that is, twenty-five articles, for research! This is your interest in research and innovation, Minister. All this is done in the midst of a pre-formal national dialogue on education, where we are asked for national understanding and cooperation. What are you doing now? You bring a bill of forty-six full articles, with a number of arrangements for primary, secondary and all that we have said, which are all out of dialogue. We have told you clearly at the joint meeting and we are now repeating that in a national dialogue - pragmatism, where while we are supposed to be dealing with education, you are also legislating yourself, we will no longer be involved. Let us now refer to chapter I on research, which comes to dismantle L.4310/2014, which was voted on by our own government in November 2014. This is a law that has not even been implemented to see if there are malfunctions. You're coming now and you're almost karateing him. He had also spoken to the Minister of Friends in the committee on the 'project section', as he called it. I imagine it has been described in the essential sense of the term 'location'. I would call it 'a draft plan of caratomy, control and photographs'. You, Minister, Mr Fotakis, said in the debate on the previous law of the investigation: "For this reason the deposit of the new law on research is a very positive fact and its immediate implementation is a serious necessity". It's your word. But then you spoke as president of FORTH, and now, as Deputy Minister of Government SYRIZA, Mr Fotakis, you come and change all the philosophy of the law with which you agreed and considered necessary. But now you're wearing a ministerial suit and dancing accordingly! It is a law, however, that you deliberately never applied, although you had all the time to do so. What, then, are you referring to in the explanatory statement? In recent years, and in particular in 2012 and 2015, serious efforts have been made to transform and harmonise the country into a modern, global player within the European Union, where research and innovation are a lever for growth of the economy, as they strengthen and promote its competitiveness in the particularly difficult globalised environment. We defended as an exception and we believe in a national system of research, which is in line with innovation and know-how, fully adapted to European and international standards and to international reality, a system of dignity and excellence, on which will emerge and on which the country's spiritual and productive forces will be based, a system and an institutional framework that ensures the continuous association of research and education with the labour market and innovative entrepreneurship, with measures and activities within and outside the country. We have tried to form a serious framework in which all players are present and cooperate harmoniously in terms of justice, dignity, excellence, development and social benefit. Instead of all this, this draft law establishes a system of anachronistic, ministerial, with clear ideas for the state and against the private initiative and with a number of provisions satisfying old and new trade union demands. We observe the clear will of the Minister to fully control and at all levels the area of research centres and, in general, the area of research and innovation, significantly weakening the GSP, the General Secretariat of Research and Technology and creating a serious fragmentation in the implementation of national research and technological development policy. We find that all the amendments to Law4310 introduced by this bill passes an anachronistic perception of research and innovation issues. The related amendments to the linkage between research and the entrepreneurship and the productive sector promoted by our law are governed by a clear revulsion to private operators, their entrepreneurship and their interaction and synergy with public research. Evidently, you are making pyramids when you hear 'private bodies' and 'business'. In other words, we are actually returning to the 1980s, where the role of the state was non-flexible and the state institutions were unique. It seems clear that the ideology of the author who goes beyond the global trend and the structures that exist in the European Union, where the Directorate-General is now called DG, Research and Renovation, Research and Innovation, in an effort to consciously turn research into development. The philosophy of the bill and the will of the Ministry's political leadership also appear clear from the arrangements concerning the National Research Council. From taking up your duties, Minister, you have deceived it, as you have been told in a question that we have tabled to you. Now what are you doing? You are abolishing it by law, without ending its term of office and without reasoned arguments - at least - in the explanatory statement - to replace it, to appoint, he says - listen, listen - to provisional NCAs, by decision of the Minister, whoever the Minister wants without procedures. Why, uh, temporary NSA? The answer is obviously to the government's responsibility for selecting directors at the largest research centres and institutes in the country, such as "DIMMOCRITOS", FORTH, National Observatory of Observatory, etc. The absolute intervention of the Minister at all levels of the administration of the country's research centres. This is also apparent from the fact that it abolishes the participation of institutional persons in the committee to draw up the proposed list of members and the Minister appoints individuals of his own choice. Transparency, dignity and excellence in all their greatness! The political leadership of the Ministry for the Administration of Research Centres also seems clear from the changes it proposes in the relevant articles to eliminate excellence, control of administration at all levels and establish customer relations between the respective managers and staff. It is unprecedented, Minister, in European data, how the directors of research centres and institutes choose, as well as their evaluation process by their staff in the middle of their term of office. Let the experienced Deputy Minister tell us which European country the proposed procedure applies. The directors of the European institutions are assessed, in other words, in the middle of their term of office, by their officials? This will inevitably create relations between both dependency and frictions of each director and the overseeing staff. These practices will dismantle the concepts of democracy and excellence. Your position as Deputy Minister of Research, Mr Fotakis, although it has created great expectations in the area, is only the integration into the regular budget of the payroll of the research centres, of the actions supervised by the GSP - which was already foreseen by Law 4310 - and of any other concrete work. The unacceptable interventions in the implementation of the 'Smart Specialisation' strategy have so far cost us the long and unforeseen delay in the launch of the ESDP, two years after the launch of the ENPI. This tangible work is charged, Minister. We've got a question for you here, too. It is also suspended until 31-12-2016, without being guaranteed, the completion of the establishment of bodies, for example the Western Greek Research Centre. It is a serious problem because these bodies are strategically important for the expansion of the research web in the Greek region and were expected to contribute significantly to the development and creation of new islands of excellence, other than Attica, Thessaloniki and Crete. You also leave out of Article 12 these research centres and the EICs. You yourself told the committee that the EIF is one of the best research institutes. But you leave them outside of Article 12. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will give me one more minute, Mr President. Finally, it is a great challenge to the judicial authorities and the Greek people to add paragraphs 9b and 9c to Article 24, with issues pending in justice. This contrasts with the conclusion of the College of Public Administration Auditors, which was a catapult, mentioning opaque procedures and seeking disciplinary and criminal responsibilities of the involved. As far as the issues of the PPE Groups are concerned - what a prototype! - instead of establishing a framework to help these reserves to be used for research and innovation, the Minister proposes that 50% of these be used for cleanliness, storage, other operating costs, with a view to dramatically reducing the regular grant. You could, Minister - and it is our proposal - support the institutions' assets utilization companies so that with a good management of these property, they can save revenue in the institutions to meet these needs. In the second chapter on the administration of university institutions, there is an attempt to degrade and abolish the responsibilities of the boards. You have so far argued that the responsibilities of the three management bodies - a council, a dean, a congress - are confusing to justify your proposal to abolish the boards. Now you come and support exactly the opposite, that the powers of the three institutions are completely distinct, and that they do not conflict, on the ground - it says - an opinion of the PWN, but that is not relevant, because it determines the competence of the boards and does not refer to the inability to carry out their duties, so that you put the Senate on the table, a body which is highly responsible and often disgusting, to replace the Council. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. In the third chapter I would like to note that, according to the report by the General Accounting Office of the State, they bear costs without having been sent by the expedited Ministry and without having been calculated. The clandestineness with which you legislate has exceeded every precedent. In some, of course, we will agree, but we cannot agree to the photographic provisions that we see throughout the bill. In Article 35 you have not yet presented to us, although we have asked you, through the'myschool' system, details of the consequences, the number of kindergartens to be abolished or merged in urban, semi-urban and villages. It is true that we are not in any way in agreement with the provision of Article 45, which attempts to put an end to criminal prosecutions for the use of schools, i.e. those who prevent, disrupt and discontinue the smooth operation of public schools or illegally remain in the operating areas. In conclusion, Mr Fotakis, I would like to tell you that you are not judged as an academic and researcher but as a political person in education and research. And there, let me tell you, unfortunately, you are cut. For all these reasons, we are voting against this bill in principle and we will be placed for the articles in the debate on the articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Anthony. Mr. Kouzilos has the floor as a special speaker...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u10	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u11	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u12	I would like to contrast Mrs Antoniou's personal headlines. I leave them in the judgment of this House. But I would like to stress two things, because photographic provisions have been mentioned. There are a number of fellow academics here who are well acquainted. As regards the case of thirty-eight colleagues at the University of Crete - among whom is George Stathakis - we have not mentioned who others are and what areas they come from, because we do not think that this is the issue. I told you this was a super-party thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u13	Mr. Stathakis is Minister, Mr. Fotakis! That's the difference!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u14	Secondly, I think there is a confusion here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u15	Are you accepting the amendment proposed by SYRIZA's colleagues?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u16	As far as the amendment proposed by my colleagues is concerned, I would like to say that, first of all, it is not about thirty-eight. In general, as I said in my presentation, I am not talking about amendments pending criminal proceedings, but about those which have been closed and have been charged. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u17	But you're getting worse, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u18	I, too, would ask the colleagues from the academic area to be placed in it. With regard to the amendments of this type in general...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u19	Of course, that does not bind us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u20	No, it clearly doesn't commit you. But what we would like, before we accept any amendments of this type, is to have a cross-party agreement. And this really is what I expect of the colleagues who are - I think - in all the political areas here. As far as the subject of the ESRB is concerned - and I shall close with that, Mr President - I would like to mention one point. So far, the members of the ESRB have always been chosen by each Minister. In fact, the present ESRB had been selected for three years by the then Minister, Mr Arvanitopoulos. This ESRB had been abolished in terms of its term of office by the adoption of the 2014 Act, and we reinstated it. The reason that we currently want to create a transitional NSF is because the whole structure is changing. There are two committees - but let me not go into detail - an innovation committee and another committee with a clear investigation. Of course there is something else here, because the new ESSET, which we propose - the ESSEC, as the National Research and Innovation Council will say - does not have the same election in either DIMMOCRIT nor any other research centre. He just chooses judges, scientists of international prestige. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] And finally, I come to something last and very important to me. I do not think there is a renowned scientist of international prestige, such as the members of the ESRB, who respects himself and really operates in such a way as to promote one or the other. I do not think that will happen either in the present ESRB nor in what will be defined in a transitional phase. And of course you expect to see who will be involved in this interim NSRF, who they will be, before you give some thought, because otherwise I think the institution of the NSRF is downgrading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u21	The special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Kouzilos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u22	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u23	What did you say, Mrs. Anthony?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u24	I asked you for a minute to reply to the Minister on both points. May I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u25	There's no dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u26	And the fact that the Minister has risen, however, is still not normal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u27	It is also not common, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u28	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u29	It's just not common!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u30	But if that goes on, you understand! Here, Mr. Kouzeli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. In this draft law we see changes and changes to an existing law, Law No.4310 of 2014, the New Democracy - PASOK rule. We waited for this law to be innovated. In the election, SYRIZA had promised that he would abolish Law4310/2014 and bring in a new piece of legislation. Actually, right now, what do we see? Corrections to failures by L.4310/2014 and patches in substance. You didn't do what everyone was waiting for. Minister, you have given two central targets to your suggestions to the committees. The first target was that the goal is knowledge derived from scientific research in conjunction with education. The second objective is research through the knowledge and innovation produced and called on to be a development perspective for the next day and to contribute to the country's productive reconstruction. This law is a long way from the two targets you have set. There are no chronic problems and pathogens such as subsistence, infrastructure development, while there is still difficulty in linking production and the market. We also do not believe that it helps to return scientific and research staff. With figures of 2013, seventy-four countries migrated about a hundred and fifty thousand Greek scientists and, of course, they have all committed themselves abroad. Study by the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training has shown that by 2020 there will be a great demand abroad for skilled technicians and technicians, that is, we will have another Greek escape by 2020, and this bill does not help Greeks stay in Greece. Also, what did all the institutions ask for? To solve the problem of bureaucracy, which is not really solved. The basic research, the necessary tool for producing new knowledge, provided that there is a stable, long-term financial framework is absent. And here we have to complete your promise of the new fund, which will come in six months from now, which you are committed to being ready and operational in six months, but until there is this new fund, the whole process will continue to be done with the existing regime. The main financial instrument remains the European funds. We were expecting to see the resources increased, and the resources were not even increased. The best investment is to provide resources for innovative research, so that scientific and research staff do not continue to be leaked. You know that one of our advantages is the high level of human resources, but because of monumental obligations, everything has gone to second degree. Are all these problems solved by this piece of legislation? Oh, no. The primary applied research will continue to suffocate? Of course. Question: Is the research model reformed? In fact, no, because we said it was a patch of Mr.4310/2014 and we would have to wait more than six months for a new piece of legislation to come, as promised. In mapping the field of research, we see that the first problem is the structures. Fifty-one research centers have now shrinked into thirty-one. The second problem is ageing in the essence of staff. Young scientists are leaving and there are young scientists who have remained and there is no one who can actually succeed them. The third problem is the resources which are not solved in this bill. And the fourth problem is the content of the survey. Let's now see some articles: Article 18 creates various imbalances. Instead of shaping, you create new problems. With Article 17, which is the replacement of Article 20 of Law No.4310/2014 in relation to the financing of research centres, institutes and technological institutions, you are not going to solve the problem with unfair competition. Let us look at Article 24, where I believe that the burden will fall on the subject of the PPE: 'Confidentiality of research and technological bodies and the Special Accounts for Research Funding for Research and Technology and the IITs'. You are actually correcting some mistakes that were also made in financial matters, some problems with supplies of goods, issues of travel, but there is another problem in this particular article. The problem is fixed-term contracts, which are extended by a decision of the Special Council of the Research Centre. The question here is why not indefinitely, so that there is no pressure on time and there is better planning in the planning of new scientists. It is not clear what the criteria for selecting research programmes will be and what their targeting will be. Other mistakes we see are as follows: Article 25(15) where by decision of the Board of Directors of the EPPO the staff required for research vessels under a fixed-term private-law contract for full-time or part-time employment or at the expense of them can be recruited. Another error in Article 16 of the Staff Regulations of Research Centres and Institutes, which replaces Article 18 of the Law. There is no occupational safety. The joint Ministerial Decision does not already exist for the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work. The grading system seems to be wrong. Let us now also see Chapters II and III, where we see that you are continuing a memorial policy, which you have received from the New Democracy and the PASOK, and which you are applying an idealism of your own. The targeting is going to the public kindergarten. Make savings for the sake of the Memorandum. As an opposition you accused the European Union and the OECD. Now you are operating and legislating on the European Union and the OECD. Your rapporteurs in the committees said that the second element of the framework is our Memorandumary Obligations. Here we ask you a question: is there a memorandum on education? There can be no memorandum and education together. They can't coexist. The third point is your discussions with the OECD. For what you blamed him, you are now discussing with him. You are attempting in chapters II and III to correct your perceptions of higher education issues. Of course you are continuing a Memorandum Policy by reducing state funding to higher education. The legislator admits that this is an attempt to treat pathogenesis due to a crisis in recent years. Let us also see some failures that exist, such as the condition of subsistence. They can't move in two - three schools, these people can't be biopollutant. OLEME and ILO described the bill as problematic, asked for it to be withdrawn and re-discussed. You also create huge injustices to teachers. The President of the Teaching Federation of Greece told the committee, at the hearing of bodies, that the Ministry of Education should abolish Law 3848 which all together, when the current government was opposition, was fighting a trade union movement and opposition to abolish. And now you're breaking your promises. With regard to Article 35 for kindergartens, this also comes under a memorandum. He's talking about rationalizing and saving resources. With Articles 24-30, the EMI meets in part, but there are loose ends in need of immediate legislative intervention, such as the development of relationships between HEI and the economy and society, in order to seek new knowledge and its transmission. With Article 26 you are trying to regulate administrative issues of the universities of HI - TEI. There are practical problems here, however, which, as the relevant bodies have said, in practice, instead of solving the problem, will create even greater problems. With Article 27 "Consolidating the subjects of Educational, Teaching, Laboratory and Technical Staff of the IOIs - TEIs" there is the following problem: We cannot incorporate them all together, i.e. the technical staff and the people involved in the workshops cannot be in the same track. Article 28 "Consolidation of the subjects for the orderly functioning of the HEIs - TEIs" in paragraph 9 does not define the criteria to be met by the TEIs in order to cooperate with the TEIs in the preparation of PhDs and we should wait for the Ministerial Decision. In conclusion, we want to stress that there cannot be a memorandum and education together. The solution is one: national education, a national state. What is your vision in fact, and what do we see in this bill? Remuneration, degradation and disarmament of education! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Kouzeli. We continue with Mr Constantopoulos, a special speaker of the PASOK-DMAR Democratic Association. Here, Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all many years, Christ Anestis, with health and power. I wish the Holy Light that Mrs. Gerovali brought from Jerusalem to light to all of us! Because we have been waiting for months to complete the evaluation and the evaluation is not complete. The government has put the country in a respirator. I hope that society will not watch a new 'Barafakada', which is a prisoner of uncertainty. Lovers of more than a violent fiscal adjustment the left ministers cut benefits and make contributions where they were committed to alleviating them. You brought, Mr. Ministers, an insurance roller. Of course, the doctrine of 'no, it's enough for the numbers to come out'! Would you like, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to vote on insurance within the weekend to satisfy who? The lenders and the Eurogroup. What about the people? I ask you: The people what? When will he be satisfied? It is disappointing - and this is also what Giannis Koutsoukos pointed out in committee - to see old left-wing fighters who have fought for the tripartite funding, the replacement rates, the sum of basic and supplementary pensions, the public and social nature of the system, against private insurance, celebrate and vote for it. Prime Ministers, however, are not judged by their intentions but by their actions. And you, Lords of Government, prove every day that in the face of your thirst for authority you take away every principle and every value. It has prevailed in the spectrum of Shoeble's ideas in Germany and you have begun the rapid compromises. Who? You, the ones who would rip up the memorials that you would play lyra and the markets would dance! But the unfortunate thing about home is that you're 16 months government. You have, of course, forgotten about the Thessaloniki Programme and you have not made any of your programme commitments. You said about the productive reconstruction of the site and just today you submitted to public consultation the new development law for just eleven days! That's what he says. The most dangerous, however, is the situation we are experiencing today. This, of course, without liquidity, with closed banks, the market in protracted insecurity and the citizens depleted financially and morally. All you've done, gentlemen of the government, is to open a new black chapter in the history of recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, we must go through this bill, which is supposed to be about research. Of course, the other provisions which come either in its main body or in amendments are also of interest here. They are talking about an environment that is research-friendly and innovation-friendly, but they do not think the environment should be friendly for researchers too. And I say that, because those who are most affected today with the new insurance bill are researchers. In fact, Mr Katrugalos testified the insurance policy a few days ago and gave no opportunity to them. They are all free professionals locked in, and indeed those employed in the research sector with the service bloc. This is the famous contribution of 20% of their annual income, which, together with other social and tax charges, amounts to a total of 55% to 56% of their gross natural income! So do not mock us, Mr Ministers, that you are interested in the development of the country. Here a researcher, a scientist, is forced to do two and three jobs in order to be able to live and, at the same time, to deal with his subject from pure passion or hobby. Then, of course, do not expect the production of innovation and the dissemination of this on the market to be systematic. Your intentions - I would say, Minister, and the way in which this bill is tabled. You are involved in research on primary, secondary and tertiary subjects. The Minister of Education's interventions under Chapters II and III are at the centre and research and innovation is not at the centre, as should. In fact, these funds upset the educational community and the Greek family. In an environment, therefore, extremely worrying for our country, with the refugee issue at a dead end, the government and the Ministry of Education legislate, leak and unilaterally decide on a number of issues that naturally degrade the public school, question the work rights of teachers and lead the Greek family to despair. You will bring, Mr President-in-Office, six negligent ministerial amendments. One of the ministerial amendments of the Ministry of Education has six articles. We're talking, Mr. Minister, about a mini bill. We have placed ourselves in detail in the debate in accordance with Article and raised essential questions at the outset of the draft law. With respect to the dialogue process, we asked the Minister to withdraw Chapter III and after consulting the arrangements for primary and secondary education and for tertiary education in a new draft law. Chapter II and in particular Chapter III of this draft law stirs consensus and creates huge issues. Both these chapters could be the subject of national dialogue, so that there could also be consultation on this subject. We are, of course, completely opposed, especially to the rules of Chapter III. That is why, of course, we are not going to vote on them. We shall, of course, be placed tomorrow on the articles on this. It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, for the national and social dialogue on education to be under way and for this draft law to be set up without prior consultation, of course, on matters relating to the service and management of school units, the abolition of organic posts, the transfer of teachers and secondments, the institution of pre-school education. All this, of course, is incomprehensible. On the other hand, the arrangements you bring to research are in a positive direction. In this context, we have tabled as a Democratic Assent amendments, which of course we would ask you to accept. Firstly, we have tabled an amendment to grant the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work to officials from research and technological bodies referred to in Article 13a of the Treaty. Date of birth: 4310/2014. This regulation tackles the problem, created by many research and technological bodies, with regard to the grant of the allowance. To date this allowance is granted only to a few beneficiaries, due to the failure to adopt the necessary ministerial decisions. The contested regulation removes the injustice of non-payment to personnel who actually carry out dangerous and unhealthy work. We call for the implementation of Law 4024/2011 and for the respective ministerial decisions to be adopted. I should like to point out here that the ministerial decision, which was adopted for the grant of the allowance, concerned only the research centres under public law. Secondly, we have tabled an amendment to establish service councils in research centres, institutes and technological bodies of private law, with a view to greater protection for workers of research establishments and private-law technological bodies. We propose that they be set up by a board of directors. This strengthens the democratic functioning of research centres, transparency, objectivity of the crises and the possibility of objecting and appealing to the person assessed. Let me remind you that today even researchers are being fired indefinitely. The third amendment we have tabled is on the non-wage benefits of research centres. This is a regulation which comes in order to motivate scientists to deal with research. Unfortunately, the working environment of research centres in Greece is not at all attractive. Memorandum policies have created serious problems in the country's research web and, of course, in human resources. They have led a large number of young researchers and scientists to forced immigration. It is therefore imperative that regulations aimed at maintaining and attracting a high level of staff should be included in this draft law. We have therefore tabled an amendment and we call for the possibility for research centres to provide, even though the minimum non-wage benefits which can, without charge of their regular budgets, be provided with the costs of research projects or from third sources. Mr Fotakis told us in committee, but without further clarification, that some of the issues that we have raised with the amendments have already been rejected by the institutions. Here, Minister, we would like more clarification on this, and on the way in which they cost these proposals and on who and how they were presented to the institutions. In particular, with regard to the possibility of research centres providing non-wage benefits to scientists working in them, we ask for the amendment to be accepted, Minister, as the benefits are financed from own resources and are not charged with their regular budgets. Minister, support for research and incentives for researchers to continue their work is a bet on all of us. These researchers must stay in the country. It's a target that needs to be our lighthouse for the next few years. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the third chapter is concerned and the arrangements for primary and secondary education are concerned, all the institutions expressed their objection to the changes being made. We once again ask for it to be withdrawn. They have no relevance to the issues that are being opened with the investigation, and we think it is challenging for the Minister to impose such changes without having been consulted beforehand. At the same time, you come with a ministerial decision within the Great Week, to keep schools closed and not to have greater reactions, to change the structure of primary education as a whole so far. And it is true in its entirety, because behind the differentiation of the schedule and the Single School Type all the staff structure and the service situation of teachers serving in primary education change. Are there going to be transfers and distractions, Minister, this year? I'm asking. How will the gaps be calculated? What about the Integration Departments? What about the skills transferred from secondary to primary? You keep announcing self-evidently: Open schools without gaps. How? By reducing organic positions in kindergartens? With the abolition of the morning zone? With the shrinking of the full-day school function? Of course, in the Dialogue Committee, which, in effect, has been held in an ancient Greek tragedy, the Minister suddenly appears to solve all the problems. There are proposals reminiscent of the PASOK Education Programme in 2007 ‘Study framework - Enabling local communities’. At the same time as the chairman of the committee and the president of the IPE are talking about educational autonomy of schools and teachers, you Minister, were issuing a ministerial decision with a new timetable for the single full-day primary school. Remove a thousand thirty-seven EPA schools, which the whole of the Greek society accepted with a positive sign. You speak of equal opportunities in education, while at the same time there is no provision for teaching special courses - English, computer, theatreology - for schools under four seats. You set two different conditions for registration at the full-day school, depending on whether it is above or below a veil. Thirdly, you limit the hours of stay at school, mainly affecting students from the weakest social and educational family environments, who have a essential need for the full-day school. Minister, equal opportunities eventually lead to a level downwards. School's back in the past. They lead to unemployment of four thousand teachers. I'm talking about four thousand deputys. Remove the morning zone and due to the deterioration of the full day program, in combination with the end of compulsory hours at 1: 15, about four thousand permanent teachers of all specialties will be forced to move from school to school. The worst thing is that any process of future certification for foreign language and computer competence cannot be supported at school. So you'll force parents to keep paying care. Minister, there is no expensive and cheap school. There is a school, a public school, which should offer equal opportunities for education to all and which will respond to the real needs of their pupils and families. Instead of talking about the improvement and generalization of the EPA institution, where 65% of primary school pupils are in attendance, you are equating it to 35% in the classics. And today we learn that you are also moving forward with the change of the Central Pan-Hellenic Examination Commission, of course ignoring the experience and scientific authority of its members to date. You have no right, Minister, to play at the angles of a hundred and three thousand students. You are setting up your mechanism here as conspiracy, because you probably feared the anger of the educational community from your policy and the vote of the insurance company. Ladies and gentlemen, education and the research sector must be shared vessels so that policies can be formulated that will give flesh and bone to the necessary productive reconstruction of the place, the productive reconstruction that you promised to the Greek people, and unfortunately so far you have not taken a step towards it. I hope for our people that Golgothas, who since the first day of the SYRIZA - ANEL government is uprooted, to have an end, to reason, and that will only prevail if you finally accept the proposal of the President of the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Fofis, for a government of national responsibility from this House, to get the country out of the tragic deadlocks, which have actually been driven. Of course, you have your great responsibilities. You have a responsibility and you decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. Mr. Tassos, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u35	Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL, your Government has exceeded every line of political misery, authoritarianism, hostility to the working people's movement and full support for co-operation. It mobilizes the vote of the anti-grass package of insurance - tax and the memorandum - 'cava', surprises within the weekend. It is deeply mocked that your Government, if it believes that with beans and with the success story Tsipras will golden the pill of the anti-popular agreements that it signs with the "coops" - institutions and avoids popular reactions against the measures - plundering that it promotes. We call on the workers, the professionals, the self-employed, the farmers, the young people and the retired, the women of the people's families to rise up, to give a steadfast, proud answer, taking a mass interest in the strikes and demonstrations, targeting the real groups of people's problems: the European Union, the IMF, the very power of capital, the governments and the parties that serve them. There has been a palal upsurge since today and every day, with a direct peak this weekend, when government MPs are planning to vote for the law - looting. The JRC will also give this battle to the streets and within the House, until the definitive overthrow of the anti-population policy, to become the Greek people of real householders in their place and to break down all the slaughterers of their rights in Tartaras history. As far as the bill is concerned: 'Regions on research and other provisions', that does nothing but what Mr von Wogau has done. 4310/2014, as well as previous research laws, by promoting and strengthening the business function of research organisations and by aiming solely at the development of research activity in terms of competitiveness and profitability of capital against modern social needs and the potential of the development of science to satisfy popular needs. With the bill that we are debating today and with regard to the research section, there is an attempt to correct and fill many gaps. The ambiguities, conflicting and mutually dissociating provisions, which make Law4310/2014 highly dysfunctional, caused many problems, including in formal procedures, resulting in serious problems in the functioning of the research centres and thus in practice did not serve the strategic objective. The bill does not contain the slightest real provision and provision for restoring the losses of previous years, for restoring funding - grant at least - to the low pre-crisis levels, for restoring haircuts, for restoring wage cuts and other rights. All of this, while not even one of the main demands of the research workers - for example, the safeguarding of jobs for those who are before the doors of dismissal by the end of a large number of programmes in the next few months, the release of workers from the present suffocating regime with blocks, the notices of new positions of researchers and other workers, so that they can smoothly operate the research centres and develop their research activities, ensure all necessary for the operation of research resources by state funding - are not treated positively by the provisions of this multi-branded project. On the other hand, an effort is made to properly formulate the institutional framework through which the same strategic targets reflected in L.4310/2014 will be promoted and implemented more quickly and more effectively. This is why it is entirely composed of articles amending, replacing or repealing corresponding articles of that law. On the substance, namely, L.4310/2014 is replaced by an extensive legislation, which is obviously a precursor and a more comprehensive legislative intervention for research, as has been officially announced by the Government and is provided for in the European Union Programme for Research and Innovation Horizon 2020. This programme aims to combat the crisis and strengthen the European Union's global competitiveness through the development of the knowledge economy. And the knowledge economy is nothing but the exploitation of scientific achievements in innovative products and services, which offer new business opportunities, i.e. new profitability opportunities. This means that, firstly, as with any production activity in the context of capitalist production, it will be the profit rather than the social benefit and any social benefit that will result as a side effect. Secondly, those areas that ensure the short-term, but above all the medium-term competitiveness and profitability of large businesses in Greece and the European Union will be developed. The priorities are defined by intra-imperialist and intra-regional competition and have nothing to do with the real needs and priorities of society. In this context, scientific work, research production leading to the discovery of new knowledge, is subject to the jewellery of major business groups and their competition. The design, instead of unleashing the potential for developing research in the country on the basis of the existing needs, but also the potential, ultimately, has a suffocating effect on it by just defining its orientation and content. This is because the design requires linking research to the needs of companies through the selection of appropriate themes, and priority is given to research issues that can be exploited commercially. And that is enough in the first phase to describe its orientation. In this context, instead of the planning to free the development potential of research in the country on the basis of the existing needs, but also possibilities, it finally has a suffocating effect on it, and it has a unique impact on its orientation and content. Thus, for example, it will be a consequence of giving too much weight to the emerging areas of strategic interest, as the funding will be geared towards it, since the anticipated business profits will be greater. This is inevitable because of the endogenous anemometer character of capitalist development that is reflected in the development of research. The result will be weakening research in the other research fields, with direct consequences for those working in them. Science has long been put into direct productive power. In the context of the capitalist system, however, the priorities, orientation and content of research - from basic to applied, from social to natural sciences - serves the needs of monopolies, the need for expanded reproduction of capital, the strengthening of its ideological arsenal. Today, in the context of intra-capitalist competition for energy, the need to develop renewable energy sources is highlighted. Let us see an example of how this development is linked to cheap labour costs, but also to health and safety conditions in the workplace. For many years and despite complaints about multiple cases of workers' health, the Green Energy Company in Denmark 'SIEMENS WIND POWER' - a subsidiary, obviously, of SIEMENS - involved in the production of wind turbines, did not take any action or inform workers of the risk from the use of dangerous substances, such as various epoxys and blue substances. Symptoms are severe eczemas, asthma and respiratory abnormalities. Thus, between 2003 and 2011, sixty-four employees were affected by the above symptoms in the workplace and the company did not listen, and the audit committees and employers' associations were looking to find ways to prevent the company from being harmed. In accordance with working legislation in Denmark, which is cut and stitched to employers' measures, the employer has an absolute responsibility for the protection and safety of workers. “SIEMENS’ spokesman, following the revelations on the state TV channel, stated most of all that the company is not going to do anything more than it is doing to date, that is to say, it continues to violate legislation. It is therefore clear that, with or without innovation, capitalists are not hesitant at all to ensure their profits. Let us look at another example. The food industry, due to the relative inefficiency of demand, is prioritised for profitability in old and new fields. Hence the harsh intra-imperialist competitions for the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Agreement, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership. The aim of this agreement is to eliminate trade and regulatory barriers on both sides of the Atlantic for even greater liberalisation of the capital markets, so that there is greater profitability with an intensity of the exploitation of workers. It refers, among other things, to the innovation of mutated products. What does universities and research centres have to do with the food industry? On the one hand, the close association of food business with schools, departments, laboratories and research centres, as well as with some members of the LAG and researchers, which are reflected in changes in the curriculum. On the other hand, hundreds of students each year, to practice business in the industry, offer free work to the businessman in the name of acquiring skills. Thus, businessmen in the sector unlock and meet their needs with recorders, as they do, of course, in the tourism sector. A third example is the crucial sector of the pharmaceutical industry. There are little cases where scientific achievements, which could, for example, release people from serious diseases, remain secretly sealed for years in business drawers, since their appearance is linked to competition and the pursuit of maximum profits. A fourth example is the non-eligible cost for research, but also for projects in the areas of anti-military, anti-nuclear and anti-Semitism protection, because they do not quickly offer great profits to capital. For the JRC, it is important to identify the ideological casing accompanying the strategic planning of research chapter. Urban forces, within and outside research centres and universities, propose the idea that strengthening research and innovation is a way out of the crisis and must be a lever for development. It is, however, avoided that both research and development, which are obviously related, are not class-neutral, but are binding on relations between the production of the capitalist road today. After all, what they seek, the increase in the competitiveness of the Greek economy, holds nothing positive for the populace. Let us not forget that all anti-grassroots and anti-grassroots over the years have been in the name of increasing competitiveness. No one can overlook the objective of the trend towards faster integration of scientific achievements into its production and organisation. However, in the circumstances, this does not conflict - and it does - with the effects of the laws of capitalism. And, indeed, this is true regardless of whether a capitalist economy is in crisis or development. For example, in the context of capitalism unemployment cannot be tackled, since it is inherent to it, it is a necessary consequence of the capitalist organization of production. For the JRC, the demand frame and the fighting targets inside and outside the House are: No to commercialize the investigation. To abolish all forms of privatization of research. Depress research, institutions and infrastructures from large enterprises. No business in research centres. Mass notices of new research posts of permanent, full and exclusive employment. Recruitment of all necessary personnel with a permanent, full and stable employment relationship. Dismantling of flexible working relationships. Monitor all contractors of administrative and technical staff. Scholarships for all candidate doctors from the state budget. Full insurance cover, with the responsibility of the State, and for protected members. Doctor’s years are counted on pensions and pre-services. Genuine increase in research expenditure. Financing research in research centres and universities exclusively from the state budget, including European funding, to adequately cover all sectors and participate in it all institutions and researchers. Not at the cuts in the grant of research centres. Exceptional funds to meet all the needs of their operation. A pillar of our position is the position that research is a social need and frees man's productive potential. But it can never be developed as such in the context of the entrepreneurship and competition of capitalist relations, which by their very nature at this stage of development of capitalism are appalling the unobstructed development of science. The development path research of the JRC, whether carried out in universities or research centres, in cooperation with sectoral state bodies, can make a decisive contribution to scientific prediction and planning to meet expanded social needs. Thus, it can contribute to the development of production, to the improvement of the country's rich production sources both for the needs of industry and for meeting the energy needs of the people's family - for example by producing and providing cheap electricity and heating - to improving the health of the people, with cheap medicines and new treatments, to improving the quality of life and living conditions of the working people, with care for the environment, the flooding, anti-nuclear and anti-Semitism protection, health and safety at workplaces etc. On this road, struggles and claims need to be developed, with the top of today's recovery of losses over recent years, the total abolition of all the memorandums, loan contracts and their implementing laws. It takes the power of the popular alliance that can walk to the end, to the victory, to protect the motives from those who want to sell it "walkers for silk ribbons", to disorient it, to block its dynamic and prospect. The prospect of this race, with all the difficulties we will no doubt encounter, is beautiful and worthy of our dreams and needs. With what we have said, it is clear that we are voting against this bill in principle and we will be placed in more detail in the debate on the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Tassos. The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Friends, has the floor. How much time do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u37	Three minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u38	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. I take the floor, because the representative of the Democratic Association, Mr Constantopoulos, speaking, adopted the 'Kathimerini' post in which the Ministry of Education has responded. He's disproved. It is completely inconsistent, false and undermined in the examination procedure. I would like to be clear. All the necessary steps have been taken to ensure that the examinations are carried out this year in a fair and exemplary manner. The Central Examination Committee shall be appointed a few days before the examinations. The names of its members shall not be communicated and specific measures taken to ensure the secrecy and objectivity of the whole procedure. The members of the Central Examination Committee shall not be alive. Every year it is necessary to renew its composition, for obvious reasons. And this year there are old and new members who are subject to scientific, educational criteria alone. Reports, such as that of "KATHMERINI", on the extermination of the Central Committee of Examinations and supposedly the appointment of SYRIZA trade unionists to the Central Inquiry Committee, are completely false and raise questions about their feasibility 10 days before the examinations take place. We appeal to all sides: they must stop playing games with the agony of children and their parents and leave the tests out of the games of yellowism and cheap opposition. We have later read a response to "KATHMERINI" - the truth - which opens up another subject. While the composition of the Central Examinations Committee is confidential and secret, she claims to know who it is and that the majority of members are new. Again: No games at the expense of children and parents. He needs some seriousness. We have other issues to do with party disputes, more serious or less serious. However, let us leave out the only institution of the Greek society that has over the years gained citizens' confidence in the intact system of examinations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u40	Thank you, too. Mr Mavrotas, a special speaker of the party, has the floor in Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. I think it is my duty to begin by reminding us that today they are closing down six years from the murder of three young people at MARFIN, Friday, Nuda and Angelica. Angelica, in fact, was pregnant. They were three workers whose crime was that they were working in the wrong place at the wrong time. The crime at the Stadium has been forgotten. It's never been figured out. Justice has not been rendered. The state silent. Neither events nor concerts for the three or four - if we include the unborn baby - silent witnesses of a senseless society, which often awkwardly looks at the outcome of its own extreme reactions when it is too late. Their memory is eternity! Let's never forget them. Let's move to the bill, starting with chapter I, on research and start by seeing the European environment in research. In the European Agenda 2020, the target for research and development expenditure for Europe is 3% of GDP and for Greece 1.2%, which is not very ambitious. Today the European Union is at 2% and we are about 0.7%. So we have to run. For research issues, the bill seeks to improve the very recent L.4310/2014. In the discussions that took place in the committees, it seemed how dysfunctional it is to try to correct an existing law by making a new law on it. But let us come to this. Despite any interventions, the objective of removing the fragmentation of the research area is not achieved. In other words, it remains fragmented, while some - small, but - steps are being taken to create the famous Single Area of Education and Research, and research centres, that is to say. We shall then deal with more detail on the main of them, hoping that, when the framework law comes, which the Deputy Minister has already mentioned, is to be taken into account. The first point I would like to make is the disappearance from the text of the institution of the Deputy Minister for Research. Despite the explanations given by Mr Fotakis - they have said so by the Legislative Committee, as he said in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media - I think that the disappearance of the term 'Deputy Minister responsible for research' undermines this institutional position, which must exist in any government. However, let us look a little more specifically at the issues of chapter A of the first chapter on research. First of all, we welcome the adoption of our proposal, so that the National Strategy for Research, Technological Development and Innovation can go through - that is to say - the National Strategy for Research, Technological Development and Innovation. We believe that all the major issues of a strategic nature, such as long-term energy planning, must be discussed in the House, because they are enriched on the one hand and, on the other, they will not change for flea jumping. Let us go to what I said before as a problem of fragmentation of the research area. In Article 12, which defines the scope of this law, we meet the various research centres and institutes supervised by the GGB, such as "DIMMOCRITOS", EKT, ΕΛΕΛΕΣ, FORTH, "ATHENA", Observatory and others. There is also the Athens Academy, which is part of it, that is, only on staff issues, while leaving administrative issues out. There are, however, other important research centres and institutes, such as "DIMITRA", the former ETHIAGE, which is subject to the Ministry of Rural Development, the Polytechnic LEVEL, the ITSAK which we had at the hearing of the institutions and has now become an OSCE agency and is decreasing. Also, there are in the previous L.4310/2014, in particular in Article 12, and no other private research organisations have been abolished, which can be financed for their research effort, such as Eugenideios, Ormulia Foundation, the Foundation of the Hellenic World, the Mohammed Ali Research Centre, the Golden Natural History Museum and others. These all show us that the research landscape is pretty fragmented institutionally. Should not all research centres and institutes which have access to public funding be subject to the same institutional regime, at least to some degree? This is something that I imagine in the new framework law on research will be healed. Let us go to the management issues, to Articles 13 and 14, concerning the boards of research centres and the procedures for the selection of directors of research centres and institutes. We think that on the boards of research centres researchers are underrepresented when they have only one representative together with the special operating scientists. Our proposal - and we mentioned it in committee too - is that the number of their representatives is not stable, but depends on the number of institutes in the research centre. In other words, one representative, if there are one or two institutes in the research centre, two if there are three or four institutes, and three if there are five or six institutes. In other words, representation should be proportionate. For the post of director of an institute or research centre the notice, in our view, must be international. In the election of the director of a research centre or an institute, we heard the recommendations of the bodies at the hearing. The presidents of the research centres say: 'No representative from the researchers in the seven-member selection bodies'. The Hellenic Association of Investigators says: "Four representatives in the seven selective bodies". The solution proposed, with two out of seven or even three out of seven, is, in our view, a one-sided solution which reflects the opinion of the workers. In Article 15, the scientific councils of the institutes, which assist the Institute Director, may have had more powers, especially in the field of the Institute's strategy. We are also proposing that the chairman of the Institute's scientific board should also have the place of Deputy Director of the Institute. For Article 22, on the National List of Judges, we consider that the RESEL system which has been successfully developed and used in universities and TEIs should be extended to the research centres as well. In Article 24, paragraph 12, scientific operators of the various scientific projects must have a doctorate in the research centres as long as they have a master's degree. We'll have to see that. Why shouldn't they have a doctorate in research centres? In paragraph 9, where you say that the Committee of Inquiry, after the approval of the Senate, may have up to 50% of the PPE's indisposed reserve for operational needs, this is indeed something that gives flexibility. However, since universities and TEIs have a say - at least - on these institutional councils, there should also be the assent of the institution boards, as long as they adopt the budget and the balance sheet anyway. In Article 25, which concerns transitional provisions, we have some objections. In paragraph 8, which abolishes the ESRB and creates a temporary ESRB four months with the choice of seventeen members at the discretion of the Minister - let's assume that the law means to be at the discretion of the Deputy Minister for Research, who is responsible - as much as we can trust and, we think it creates a turmoil and an impulse, which we do not need. We can imagine that this is about the end of the terms of the various directors in the research centres. A proposal, therefore, would be, if there were any research centres and institutes that have elections directly, namely within the next four months, which will operate the interim ESRB, that the terms should be extended until the new ESRB is institutionally established. So the elections will not be made by the old ESRB, but the new, institutionalised ESRB, as is the right thing to do. Otherwise, we seem to be giving them bread. Even seventeen saints were, there would be a matter of discretionary choice. Let's come to higher education. With regard to Article 26 dealing with the further "fraction" of the powers of the boards of an institution that are a red cloth for SYRIZA already from the Prime Minister's programme statements in February 2015, we have said many times that the boards of the Foundation have accepted and accepted a war because they are an institutional counterweight to the accountability and control of the Senate and the Republican authorities - we believe that it is necessary for the proper functioning of universities and TEI so that controls are not controlled. In paragraph 4 we cannot understand what kind of legislation it says: 'If the Council fails to take a decision or to exercise all or part of its powers and act in accordance with its competences, it shall be replaced by the Senate'. In the past, we had cases of trampling that did not allow the councils to meet. Here, what exactly do we mean? Are there universities that can't meet with institution councils because of a quorum? You say below that the adoption of a decision or an opinion by the institution boards is deemed to have been given if it has been 30 days. But does that even apply to economic matters, to budgets and accounts? You, Kotzam Ministry of Education, and you do not answer parliamentary control on a simple question within a month. How, then, can the institution councils make approval decisions within 30 days concerning the budgets and the million-dollar accounts? This time must be increased, at least when it comes to economic matters, unless you want the institution councils completely decoratively, to decorate the ministry's Christmas tree. You say in paragraph 6 of Article 26 that until the institution and the rules of procedure have become, the issues provided for are regulated by the Senate's decisions, so without setting a time limit. In other words, you tell the Chambers that there is no need to establish an organization or regulation or rules, which should be adopted by the institutions' councils and that they should be able to decide on these matters on their own. With this tactic you perpetuate one of the basic pathogens of the Greek University, which is the lack of rules and institutional framework and decisions are taken from the respective powers correlations and from how much each senator can resist the dynamic minorities of "so I like". I am telling you, because I have a few times - and you have many of you - found in a Senate and you know how decisions are taken, especially on thorny issues relating to and affecting dynamic minorities, and if the debate or decisions are not liked by the representatives of the dynamic minorities present, the doors are closed until the House is informed. We've lived through this. Is that what you want to bring back? Also, let's go to primary and secondary education issues in the famous Article 33. There are various provisions, such as paragraph 6, where you are talking about standards and experimentals and about the replacement of the various and the secondments of the teachers, who need not be qualified accordingly. Thus, standards are downgraded experimentally. In paragraph 7, on the possibility of switching primary and secondary education to EDPS posts to universities and TEI, we told you that under the conditions that you put this provision into photography. You continue, however, to keep it in these provisions, those photographics, which - in order not to hide behind our finger - we have told you that they are photographing Mrs Baziana. In particular, these provisions are two years of pre-service after the doctorate and the abolition of the five-year period between transfers by way of derogation from the Staff Code. In another article in the 23, in which you speak of secondments from research centres in GDR and how they can be transferred - there is no two-year pre-service, but the public code applies normally. The Minister stated that it is a lot of people's concern, that is, it is not an individual photograph, but a group. To believe him. But why not take these two photographic requirements so that this provision is much more relevant to the world? As we consider this to be serious, we are telling you that our overall attitude to the bill will be weighed by how much you will continue to make the Chinese in our specific complaints about this provision. Let us look at the recent Minister's decision on the effective abolition of the municipal schools of the Single Reformed Educational Programme, EPA, as established. The EAGF was one of the institutions that along with the standards of experimental schools, the other red cloth of the SYRIZA government, upgraded the country's public education. Mr Friends said on 18 December: 'Every day schools'. I will not grasp, saying why you do not apply what you have said, because I understand that there is an economic problem. Politics, however, means priorities, and if you really had a priority to maintain the entire day's schools, you would have cut off some EUR 45 million from elsewhere every year for the three thousand teachers of the EACC. Because in Potami we do not oppose the sterile refusal, but the fertile proposal, regardless of whether it rarely finds a wishful ear, I would like to give you some ideas. The public rents a thousand fifty buildings and pays a year 85 million for rents. At the same time, there are empty buildings that belong to the public and stay untapped - if we don't already pay! - such as the example of the "KERANIS" building. Half the rent to get away with is the EAP. Another example is, in December, that the reclassification of civil servants in the public sector, legal entities governed by public law and OTA has passed by parliament. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I have one more minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u42	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u43	You were, in fact, boxers for special advisors and special ministers of Ministers, Secretary-General, etc., who went directly to the upper step. The annual expenditure, based on the General Accounting Office of the State, is EUR 107 million. I would remind you that EUR 45 million is the annual cost for the EAGF, that is to say the entire day's school. But politically, we said they were priorities. There are also hundreds of public bodies who have either become inactive and have not been banned or planted, and we have done nothing for them. In relation to the amendments, we will see what will be accepted by the Minister. What I would like to stay in is in two of them, Amendment No 363/10, which gives peers the right to do undergraduate courses. Here it is surprising how SYRIZA brings something like this, when Mr Gavroglou has said at times that basic care is how he will open the university to new doctors. Is that how it's going to open? By classing undergraduate peers? In relation to Amendment No 364/11 on the selective bodies, we would like to add the explicit reference to the RESEL system for the choice of the subject-matter, particularly for colleagues from abroad. It is crucial to maintain the RESULTS database. We would also like to expressly call for the possibility of the tripartite committee requesting an evaluation letter from anyone concerned, either internally or abroad, for candidates. I conclude by saying that our attitude at the outset in this bill will essentially be determined by how hospitable we will find in the remarks we have made, mainly in chapters II and III. We're patient to wait until the last minute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Black. We are moving on with Mr Zourari, a special speaker of the ANLL. Please, Mr Zourari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u45	My respects, Mr. President. We need to talk, of course, about the draft law on research. I would like to remind you of this. I also listened to the Committee on Morphic Affairs that there has been a fragmentary nature of a very opportune nature, but I would remind colleagues, especially those who are not in the ghezis - that is, they are not in our saragos, they are not teachers and researchers - that research has been in place since the very beginning of the world and that it has always been fragmentary, it is always diverse, it always has diversity, diversity. Therefore, even the rules governing the investigation can only necessarily have a fragmentary character, which actually expresses the continuing mobility of the investigation, the continuous interchangeability and liquidity, the replacement of certain institutions with others, and so on. There is also a second element that we must take into account, which I have the impression that, at the very edge of the speech of the anti-fungals, we are also forgetting it many times too. I have been following, for example, the rapporteur for major controversy. I don't like the word opposition, because it's bad, it's unnecessarily scientific, because it means that you're out of politics, civilisation and civilisation. We here on all sides, even those who want to change the regime in full, since, in this area and in time, we are in the enthusiastic state, we cannot be opposition. So what are we? We have a disgusting reason, controversy. So there are the major controversy and minor controversy from here. I would therefore like to remind you of the major controversy that we will always have in the nature of legality a character character character character character characterised by photographs, which will always express a belief in the selective relationships that research centres and others must regulate. I believe that some of my colleagues are more closely involved in my views, so of course I should also like to legislate on the basis of the possibility of hiring them. The others will come later, and they will legislate differently. That's how it's done. We do not have to object, that is, unless there is money, there is nepotism, which is not the case. There is essentially a selective affinity. It's not for death. The third is that we must not forget here, as long as this thing is held up, that is, perhaps for a hundred and eighty years from the establishment of Psorocostanna - that Greece today and the Greek political system are in possession, we are in possession, are the memos. So the government is not a government, it is not a government of Cholacoglou, it is not a government of Logothepoulou, it is not a government Rallie, but it is a government - as I have said before - in possession of the political committee of national liberation, as the PGI was. While the ELAS had arrived to have the greatest power back then - summer of '44-, unfortunately ELAS himself, the mighty then ELAS, watched the massacres in Athens, Crete, because this industrious and timely June, July and August '44 overconcentration of the German Air Forces, armored and others did not allow for frontal treatment by ELAS. We therefore have to bear in mind these, not proportionally, but streamlinedly, because otherwise we will really be like intolerable dogmas, that is, we say in the air that it is this government's fault. We have ruthlessly, we are in possession and I have seen in the draft law that too many of the regulations are under the rule of lawlessness. For example, the combinations of certain kindergartens which are not bad, when, as the Minister has told us, there is always respect for the neighbor, the neighbor, there are no miles of minor children and others. Therefore, negligence on the basis of the status of state-of-the-art legislation shows exactly a situation, which I hope is temporary, and cannot always be pleasant. But at least having counted the n. 4310, I found that it does regulate some things because of the complexity of the previous law. And from this point of view, it shows what improvement it is. I would like to make two remarks, because it is a good thing to practice the mutual teaching method among us, since we have to teach each other all the time, as we did in Turkish occupation, and we as MPs. My good Gabroglou said at noon, just now, as rapporteur, that, for example, from many discussions between colleagues - of course - and Members - also of course - he found that there is a common confession that school teaching books are in many, largely and in many directions inappropriate. We will all agree, but the generality of the word inappropriately does not allow us to agree on that, namely on what. I will, for example, come to those which, from first to last grade, may or compulsory education - which is the Third High School - are the sociognostic lessons, man-gnostic lessons, literacy lessons, poetry lessons - I am sorry, but I will also use a misguided word in this Parliament - and in the ethno-plastics courses. Because for some very advanced circles, my Minister, in this Parliament and outside Parliament, who are very advanced as advanced prisoners of NATO and the free world, the word nation is obscene. For me, the word nation first has a scientific regime of gravity and expresses a specific balance of today's society. So for some of these books, we'll be mistaken, as McKrigiannis would say. I cannot tolerate, for example, a book of the Second High School that says, for example, that the witch does not like the carols and finds the children and says "..." I forgot the expression. I have never understood why to an elementaryly balanced man, whether he is left or right - the right one has less balance, perhaps like the left one - he does not like carols, for example. What the hell do you find bad or reactionary in carols and you don't like carols? So this fat stupidity, which has prevailed in too many school books, as a result of pushing forward, is time to end. The second element, I saw again with steadfast despair and a vulnerability due to the unawareness of Gabroglou, not my own, that it is very progressive to introduce the second foreign language into the children. As you will know, those who are at least involved in research, now research is being done in English worldwide, so to get a Nobel Prize - so with the English language expressed in English, about - in physics, in chemistry, in mathematics - where there is no letter, he wants genius, talent and symbols - he wants about six hundred words, of which seventy are verbs and seventy verbs are also connecting. And by coincidence, Kostas Gavroglou, in my sciences and in yours, in particular, of these six hundred pounding words that you need to get a Nobel Prize, half of which are Greek. Conclusion: The second language in the five-year-olds is a major pedagogical error. What I would suggest to you as a fermentation to discuss again - what too many teachers, too many teachers of the street, who are years on the street - are, because all fingers are not the same and because we are not sure that we are Chinese yet, or that we are Chileans or Incas, and therefore 'the principle of wisdom', 'and all the virtues of superiority', must be distinguished. Unfortunately, there is a great privilege for us left over and left over by Greek and Greek women, and this is the language. This language first - first of all it is a very difficult language, unfortunately - seems to you - has more exceptions than rules, the Greek language. Her second defect is that it has a duration of three thousand years, major defect. The third flaw is that we are still determined to learn it and say it, of course, not in four-quarters of Asia Minor Disaster, when I hear you talk or hear others speak and write today's Greeks, but instead of being taught and not transferring, as Seferis says, "broken thoughts from foreign countries" and having the second language or the third one. First of all, I do not understand: Would it not be self-evident that the second language should be Chinese? Just one and a half million people talk to her, and it is not certain that Greek needs slowly. In any case, as we speak some people have in practice proved to be useless. But we will have to find a way for our teachers, teachers and those who still love this place and our great scholars to propose the teaching of the single Greek language as the second language from Municipality. I mean, the ancients, so I can say it like that, and we don't hide too much. By methods, how a child approachs a foreign language. To be considered Greek as a foreign language and to be taught by the First Elementary. This will strengthen the intelligence of the posteriori and reduce the rate of incoherence. It is absolutely certain that anyone who expresses themselves with these greek abstractions, today, cannot be expressed. I remember, when I taught thirty-six, thirty-seven specialties about every year in France, that I found this uncertain, because my legal systems were a political theory. Those foreign students - I understood or talked to them - had a strong knowledge of their mother tongue, had a better approach in French. The difficult French, because our French are not mathematics and physics - chemistry, which simply wants genius. It's literary language. Because time is over, first, you will introduce the ancient Greek as a foreign language. Secondly, Mr Mitafidis gave me a text with which he is wronged by a very large number of teachers, because those who teach in schools must resign until the last 10 days of April and if they are involved in the current regime, Minister, we will really be wronging people. I call on you to see whether you can, for at least this year, extend their work until June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr Zourari. Mr Georgiadis has the floor on behalf of the Centron Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u47	Good evening again. I have told some people many years, to those who have not had the opportunity to wish, I wish many years. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to raise the biggest political problem concerning the crucial area of education. It is not possible for every Minister to make any changes to his head without the wide-ranging political consensus. The area of education and its institutionalized expression, namely education, must stand outside party conflicts. The micro-political purposes and ideas of the respective minister must be set aside for the sake of our children. Partial controversy cannot be found in education. The Ministry of Education concerns all citizens, whatever they vote. First of all, it is about the future of our country. With all these thoughts in mind, I would like to disapprove the Ministry of Education's practice to use its institutional role to promote party controversy and, indeed, for micro-political purposes. Some people seem to have turned the ministry into a party brochure. The official website of the Ministry and the official Facebook account of the Ministry presents selected quotes of speeches from Mr. Friend and Mr. Mitsotakis, saying that Mr. Philis wants students and Mr. Mitsotakis. I ask you all to answer me manually to the heart, is that the role of the Ministry? To make party propaganda for or against specific political persons? This, gentlemen of the government, demonstrates your party perception of education. You want universities with party interests. You want schools with conquests and abstentions and all that feathers of party unionism. Schools with slogans and personal targetings. I am tabling the relevant sources from these extracts in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The proposal of the Union of Centres is the complete collection of the educational area. Set up a permanent intergroup with the participation of all parties, as well as with the participation of persons of unknown international prestige. We have a lot of teachers running abroad. This council won't change directions in every election campaign. His work will be to design a long educational strategy for all levels of education. Children and young people are not experimental animals. Let's talk more specifically about the bill. Article 24(4) stipulates that direct awards may be made for HEIs and research and technological bodies up to the amount of EUR 20,000. That's true for the entire public. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] In Greece, however, of the crisis, ladies and gentlemen, the EUR 20,000 is a great deal for direct assignment. For such an amount, you must publish an open and flexible tender without any time-consuming procedures. There's a way. We do not see any desire for transparency and for the removal of interdependent interests. Really, tell me something. What measures have you planned not to break the largest amounts in smaller 20s? There is no ban on this legislation. One might well as assign a value of EUR 100,000 directly to it, if he divides it into a succulent and pretextful five parts of EUR 20,000. In Article 31 you refer to scholarships. I would like to point out this. Scholarships in all countries are the way out for poor children in worthwhile studies with a view to their success. This is a necessary regulatory intervention by the State to reward the capacity and not the financial situation of the new parent. In this article it states that the decision whether a young person gets a scholarship or not will be taken by scientists who are chosen by a decision of the Board of Directors of the State Scholarship Foundation. In fact, 80 euros are provided for each individual evaluation of each grant applied for. The only description given to these evaluators is that they will be worthwhile people. No, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we do not accept that. You continue to perpetuate a closed scholarship club. Scholarships should be awarded through wide, open and non-discriminatory procedures, with sealed names and ensure that the personal information of each candidate is not disclosed to the assessor. Anything else, smells of customer relationships, day service and unacceptable adequacy. Is that left too? This closed unworthiness of a scholarship procedure will never benefit the poor student. It will benefit acquaintances, relatives and friends of academic and political persons. This method you know, this method you also trust in your turn and we warmly congratulate you. In Article 33, we read: 'The transfer of the teacher to a post in a category of laboratory teaching staff HS is carried out by a decision of the Minister of Education'. This is very photographic to us on your part, ladies and gentlemen. Who are you photographing? We see, of course, that some applications and a number of formal, pre-standard procedures will take precedence in the HEIs, in which the teacher wants to deal with them. The completion of a post in higher education, ladies and gentlemen, must always be a product of open procedure, whether it is already a civil servant or a person who has not been recruited to the public. Being taught at a university cannot be a product of internal procedure. This is a more general problem of higher education. This closed, undeclared, rousfetological process has led us to have whole families teaching at the HEIs and TEIs. Everyone thinks that university is a trophy that should be inherited to their children. Virtual needs are formulated with photographic positions with the tolerance and boogeyman of the respective Minister. That's enough! Teaching at the university must be the result of an open and fair process. Stop turning higher institutions into self-interest services departments. In Article 33(6), remove gaps in experimental and standard schools with alternates under the pretext that delays occurred in their placement. Instead, permanent teachers of increased qualifications will be used by secondment. Of course, the gaps that the absence of secondment will create will be covered again by alternates. Your reasoning is a dead end. I would remind you that before the alternates' status, which was set up last year, there was a list of teachers for standards and experimental studies. Any gaps were covered by that list. Now, according to an amendment tabled by SYRIZA MEP Mr Dedes, you are proclaiming the IATAP as the only national authority to grant academic recognition of foreign degrees and certification of professional rights. Automaticly abolish all other competent authorities established, such as the GSP, in compliance of Greek democracy with Union law. As of September 2012, IOTAP expressly explained that it is the permanent committee of adequacy that is responsible for the recognition of professional qualifications for the exercise of regulated professions, and in particular for lawyers, which is based in Athens and operates at the offices of the Athens Bar Association. The IOTAP is responsible for academic recognition of diplomas from foreign countries. It is therefore surprising that the proposed amendment calls on the Minister to adopt a provision which violates national law, but mainly confers powers on the IAEA, which the institution itself expressly states has no. What makes us even greater impression is that this amendment was tabled by a few minutes of time by two Members of different parties, and indeed by exactly the same text in content and morphology. I mention attributes the late amendment tabled on 15 April 2016 and was delayed by Mr Dedes. It is followed again by Mr. Dede, Mrs. Genias and Mr. Skouriakos, with the only difference in paragraph 2, for registration in their registries. On April 26, at 15.00, he was filed by SYRIZA MPs. On April 26, 15, 10', he was filed by Mr. Zourari. And the same amendment with the same morphology, on 26 April, was tabled by Mr Georgiadis. Obviously, Mr Georgiadis realized that something is going on and withdrew the amendment in time. I am tabling these documents to be investigated in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In conclusion, I would like to ask you this. Have you developed a specific plan for how you want the 21st century school? Do you want to, for example, make special teaching rooms for each lesson? Here's a nice suggestion we have to present to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u48	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u49	The no you're saying, obviously, and you haven't done it, or we wouldn't be here. Within school units there is a need for special institutions per subject of teaching. Teaching rooms right now is an accidental school deposition. Other needs of the teaching area of the Ancient Greeks and other needs of the area of teaching physics and chemistry. The classroom should not be static and teachers of different specialties should be in different classes. It must be the reverse. Each teacher should have his own teaching room appropriately designed for his subject matter and the students should visit the appropriate room in the appropriate course. This model is already being applied in several advanced Western world countries with great results. So the student does not find the lesson boring and gains an empirical and experiential relationship with each lesson. Do you want schools that enthusiastize students and not schools where students will look at their watch on when to leave? These are reforms. This is what you leftists had to put forward in a bill on research and education rather than being paid with the track, 80 euros, arbitraryly appointed officials, who will judge whether a student is entitled to a scholarship or not. From the current bill we understand that nothing is able to win any level of education. This is nothing more than a redeployment of chaos. This concerns both schools and research and university space. In this case, the Centro Association will not co-operate. We are voting against this bill in principle and we will be placing ourselves on the articles in this vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u50	Thank you, too. We're entering the list of speakers. Mrs Aylonitou has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill entitled 'Research and other provisions' seeks to restore the effective functioning of scientific research in Greece after the dismantling attempted by the n. 4310/2014 in this critical area. But at the outset, I would like to focus on a very debated concept, the concept of excellence, which has been particularly concerned with us for a year, especially in the form of pretexts. But it gives us the opportunity to find out the difference in the mindset of the current government by the government of the old-party system. How, then, does everyone define excellence? According to Law.4310/2014 excellence is defined as research achievements, innovative or experimental layout or theory and innovative teaching methods. So excellence is a thing, according to the law we change. But according to the current bill brought by the government, excellence is the dynamic process, which aims to systematically pursue high scientific quality in order to achieve the best result. So we, ladies and gentlemen, consider excellence to be a dynamic process and not a static thing. This little difference in the text best summarizes the mental difference between the new and the old. It is also operationally more effective, of course, in the draft legislation under discussion. In what way? We all recognise the importance of scientific research for economic development in these days, but from there on, scientific research, the most important area for the exercise of rationalization and empirical confirmation, has also fallen victim to many ideological turbulences. L.4310/2014, on the basis of the finding that the exploitation of the applications for research programmes is a global basis for the creation of profitable private enterprises, decided and established that Greece should operate on private economic criteria not only private technology companies, which will implement the findings of this research, but even the state research institutions that produce it. In this way, however, a Greek caricature of the American model of "Silicon Valley" is being created since there the business can be exploited by private companies, but the basic research, which produces new knowledge, is paid by the state by means of public bodies such as NASA, state centres and state-funded research programs at universities. May I say that this distinction wasn't known? It is well known in the field of research and researchers. But here, ladies and gentlemen, the ideologists of 'Utopian capitalism', who want all activities to be either directly profitable or not at all. Today's bill harmonizes the legal framework of scientific research in Greece with international practice by removing the requirement for research centres to operate on private economic criteria, while maintaining the prediction and ability to have revenues from their research work. From there on, the bill maintains the contact of research with the economy, with entrepreneurship, with small and large enterprises. They are not, however, the research centres of private enterprises as would have liked by L.4310/2014. They are independent centres of scientific research which can channel their products for market use. The opposite would be problematic for a number of reasons, but above all because scientific research is carried out by definition at the limit of what is possible, always trying to widen it. It moves to the limit of knowledge, acting to extend it. Scientific research makes it possible what was impossible yesterday and because no one knew it was impossible to order it. International practice shows that the development of high-tech enterprises requires four things: Firstly, a strong scientific background with a state-funded scientific research at universities and public research centres, with a legal framework allowing for the exploitation of scientific achievements. Secondly, the possibility of two-way mobility of researchers between these research centres and the private sector. Thirdly, a legal framework for easy financing of innovative business with donors that invest in innovation rather than in the collateralisations. Fourth, veritable bankruptcy law, because the entrepreneurial innovation in this area is based on trial and failure (trial and erroor) until it succeeds. Anyone who doesn't have a stomach for all this makes a fauna. The bill still frees the research centers from government's suffocating control, which, with Law.4310/2014, gave the relevant Minister the right to establish and dismantle research centres with a presidential decree and to prosecute their administrations whenever they wanted. With today's bill, research centres are being set up, merged, broken up and abolished only by law. The outrageous imposition of confidentiality on the decisions of the administrative boards of the research centres is still being abolished, and one wonders what one wanted to hide that institutionalisation of absolute opacity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a researcher and saying things in their name, I will tell you this: The practical effectiveness of the law will depend on how the national research and technology strategy is to be defined and whether there will be the necessary transparency and the development of a coherent legal, insurance, tax and audit framework, as well as on the development of conditions and incentives for the development of cooperation between research organisations, technological bodies, businesses and other bodies, to use the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u52	Come on, Mrs. Alonitou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u53	I'm coming down, Mr. President. Of course, I am voting in favour of the bill, as, ladies and gentlemen, since we are not and cannot be a low-cost country, we must become a country of high-performance work through high-tech technology and today's bill, ladies and gentlemen, is taking a very important step in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u54	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u55	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u56	Mr President, legislative improvements have been made. If I have to explain something, I'm at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u57	Mr President, if my memory doesn't cheat on me, the legislative improvements are announced by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u58	Nothing's been filed here. We'll share them with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u59	Oh, it's a manifestation of intent. If I understand it, it is the verb "have", not "will have".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u60	They will be distributed, Mr. Teddy. Don't be anxious.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u61	I'm not nervous. I'm not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u62	I'm enjoying your question, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u63	I'm filing them now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u64	Please, Mr Harakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister promised a resurrection of the economy with Orthodox Easter. Not only did we see a resurrection from the winter economy, but instead, in the midst of a Great Week and a school holiday, we had the burial of the full-day school from the Ministry of Education. Invoked by the Ministry of Education's leadership of equal opportunities in education, it essentially requires a downward equation. Instead of stepping up all schools by extending the Single Reformed Educational Program, which applies to a thousand thirty - seven primary schools, it downgrades and shrinks the full - day school. The "Balta Spirit" lies above the Ministry of Education. After the abolition of the model schools, because excellence is a retreat, EPA schools are now being abolished. It is another step towards a levelling-up and, indeed, in the name of serving the people's interests. Only for a child to be accepted in SYRIZA's new type of full-time school, both parents must work! Who would expect, in Greece of the crisis, with unprecedented unemployment, a so-called left-wing government to deprive children of access to the full-day school? As also, in SYRIZA’s achievements, it is the abolition of the morning zone for the working parents, who could go from 7.00 in the morning to school before they got to work. Or does the decline in the study and preparation of children and the deterioration of teaching objects, such as foreign languages and computers brought about by SYRIZA's type of full-day school strengthen its social character and educational orientation of education? Bad lies, SYRIZA's single-day school type serves one goal: in every way save human resources. Evidently this option is conscious, in the fear recently expressed by the Deputy Minister of Education, Mr. Peglerini, that schools will be closed if they are not recruited permanently, as you have already spent 190 million euros from the NSRP for the recruitment of alternates and you are left with only 160 million for the entire programming period. In the Minutes, I give the relevant statements by Mr Peglerin. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, the Minister of Education, Mr. Friends, whom I do not see in the ministerial seats, is announcing almost twenty thousand permanent recruitments in primary and secondary education. I wish his announcements were based and guaranteed the approval of the institutions, as you have baptized the troika. I hope that you do not treat this issue with the same malady as you are dealing with the issue that has arisen with the appointments of alternates. Since for 15 months the head of the Ministry of Education has been sleeping deep, shortly before Easter realizes that there is a problem with the decision of the Council of State, and then attempts with an amendment that is appropriate to close the matter. At the expense of the reaction of the teachers, whom the Members of the House also became, just before the debate in plenary, Mr Philis makes us aware that he does not intend to present it. As the Commission has said, recruitment will take place as it was last year, knowing that problems can arise. About how they deal with each other, talk! So responsible! Ladies and gentlemen, while the government is supposed to hold a dialogue on education, these issues are obviously considered minor and are not included in the dialogue. On the other hand, the Government, in the middle of the alleged dialogue, smuggling the political forces, legislates when with night-time amendments, when with arrangements in unrelated ‘curry’ bills, which tend to become rules and when by legislative acts, SYRIZA denounced as opposition. The statement by the Ministry of Education's own bill, however, removes every symphony card from the government, justifying those from the outset who were talking about dialogue - prototype and alibi for the imposition of preconceived decisions. That is why - despite the good mood with which we as a new Republic joined the dialogue - we had to leave. We do not offer legalisation in dialogue - parody. We are therefore discussing the research bill, which, like so many others in the past, has gone through forty waves. It was filed, withdrawn due to mistakes and suspicious provisions and re-issued with many questionable and blurred provisions that make and well-qualified ones buttoned. The draft law is nothing but arrangements, forgiveness, photographic arrangements and ideologies: Refusal of sins at the University of Athens and a reward for disobedience to the laws of the state, for forgiveness to those who did not apply Law 4009 and re-established the Rector council, photographic transfer of teachers, as well as hoarding for secondments abroad which will cost 3 million to taxpayers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At least so much will your incomprehensible decision to ban the secondment of teachers without a fine, married to Greeks abroad, relatives or foreigners! Evidently, in the Ministry of Education, "the money is available"! The further weakening of the Foundation Councils is part of the obsessions of the government, which devaluates reputable scientists who came home to offer unfavorably, as well as the decriminating of the conquests rewards the minorities that so I want to do, deprive the majority of the students of access to the good of public education, depriving it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u66	Mr. Harakopoulos, your time has run out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u67	I shall conclude, Mr President, with the slight tolerance you have shown to your previous colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u68	Tolerance is recorded across the board, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u69	As regards kindergartens, if the regulation is not intended to save human resources, the Government must provide convincing explanations of its feasibility and of the study it has conducted. Ladies and gentlemen, the adventure of the bill under discussion reflects the image of governance: irrationality, superstitiousness, amateurism and at the same time lack of respect for rules and principles by storming unrelated amendments, waves of outrageous photographic provisions, with unspeakable legislation written on the knee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u70	Mr. Harakopoulos, among other things, show respect for time, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u71	I shall conclude, Mr President. This picture of sloppyness with a wrapping of ideoleptic obsessions resents the bill on research, which is why we are voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u72	The question, therefore, is whether or not the legislative improvements are being reproduced, Mr Treasury. Mr Balafas has the floor to explain to you three amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u73	Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to comment on three amendments - additions, pointing out from the outset that it is not the best thing for a parliamentary group or even for a Member of Parliament, a member of the political leadership of a ministry, to add a number of amendments to a bill from another ministry. However, there are - and most of you have such experience - cases where such a procedure becomes necessary when there is a case of failures, perhaps of past responsibilities or responsibilities which go back to our period and which do not allow for postponement. We cannot afford these proposed arrangements to impose or to have the luxury of any deferral. We believe that the three amendments we are presenting are this category, and that is why I am briefly putting them to your attention. I think they can obtain a wider consensus. The first is that, as you know, municipalities which do not have a validated budget last year cannot do general expenditure because they are in a state of control. They can only do expenditure related to payment, staff payroll, as well as to cover the insurance contributions of the same staff. In other words, the legislator makes provision for these costs to be covered, because, after all, the local authority has no responsibility if the municipal authority has failed, uncertainties or any other responsibilities the municipal authority has reached this situation. It therefore provides that this exemption is to be granted to the costs of staff and insurance contributions. But, of course, there are some other costs of the municipalities - a few - which concern particularly sensitive social strata, particularly sensitive social groups in need of increased protection. I am referring to the obligation of the municipalities to give pre-school allowances and also the obligation of the municipalities to grant poverty benefits to the beneficiaries. This amendment - adding - has to do with the fact that, in these cases where we do not have a validated budget, an exception should also be made for these costs - I repeat for pre-emptive allowances and poverty benefits - and that these two categories of expenditure do not fall under the prohibitions of the Code of Municipalities and Communities, Article 60(2). That is an amendment. I think you understand its importance, especially in the present very difficult economic conditions. The second amendment - adds to one point which many colleagues have raised - the need to pay for the transport of primary school pupils up to the conclusion of the contract, due to the cancellation of the tenders for any reason, since the reopening of these tenders has been followed. The relevant laws are Law No.4350/2015, as amended by Recent Law No.4369/2016. In other words, we are trying, with this intervention, to be able to cover by decision of the regional authority, not in general and vaguely, the cases where it is difficult to cover these costs for the transfer of pupils of public schools for the period 2015-2016. The third amendment, too, seems to me to be a sensible intervention, and I believe that it can be accepted more generally. The third paragraph is also an exception for the current year alone. What happened in the current year? There have been cases of staff that, while the contracts of these workers have been prolonged, at the last time, because of the difficulties that exist and the need for you to have the money to be able to make some extensions to the contracts of a certain category of staff - cleaning, etc. - the municipalities in between, perhaps because they were very households, had arranged for new posts to be reopened, so that they would have to cover, if contract extensions were made, twice as many as their employees. Thus, many times in these cases the compensation fees, the revenues of the compensation service, which covers the costs of the payment of staff, are not sufficient to cover those costs. In this sense, especially for the municipalities, first-degree local authorities, since - I say again - the revenues of the compensation are not sufficient to cover the payroll, but also the insurance contributions of the staff concerned, they may - it is not a particular expenditure or charge - be covered for the current and only financial year from all types of expenditure in general and not intended to cover any specific expenditure. That's all I had to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u74	The President of the Centro Association, Mr. Leventis, has the floor for 15 minutes. You may not need them, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u75	God willing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u76	Even though meslin, you'll behave!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u77	Good evening, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I speak a little prematurely, because I leave for some provincial apartment in the country. I shall refer to one fact. On Easter day, every year, political leaders are accustomed to going to various camps. So I asked to see where the Prime Minister, where the President of the Republic goes, where the various people are going. I was told that Mr. Kammenos was going with the Prime Minister, but the other leaders could not go. I say, 'I don't understand, what is that?' I was told "they will go to a frigate, which is intended and is twelve miles from the coast". I say 'What are these things?' I see Mitsotakis in the Epitafios too, and I say 'if anything were hidden for me', I beg and I say to him 'Are you invited anywhere on Easter Day?' It says to me: 'No, Mr President, Kammenos does so with Mr Tsipras and no other party has called'. The Prime Minister went there and said to the military, to someone of the Navy who supervised the Onousses "we are on your side, we trust you, we consider you the guards of the nation" and at the same time Turkey took a walk. Mr. Kammenos briefed me to the Department of Defense. He showed me the decisions of NATO and told me that Greece was covered. I told him "before a lextor speaks, you will be disproved", because the Turks have other opinions. The Turks, Kastelorizo, do not consider it a dodecanese. They consider that the Dodecanese should not be militarised. The FIR Athens FIR does not respect it and do not mention their flights. The territorial waters, too. I see a horrific circumstance. I had asked Mr Tsipras not to go to Izmir, not to discuss with the Turks in bilateral discussions. Why are the Turks doing this? They say that measures are a building of confidence and they find the opportunity and take the agenda of the so-called differences. What are their differences? "Don't extend your territorial waters, the FIR Athens FIR doesn't recognize it, the islands have no continental shelf," these are the Turkish positions. I have warned the Prime Minister not to go and negotiations on the refugee issue and all other issues for the European Union to do them with Turkey, since we are members of the European Union. The prime Prime Minister went on the right lines and heard from his own Prime Minister, Turkey, these things, that Kastelorizo is like this, the Dodecanese is like this, good and good. You know the Turks why they do this? To have the minutes of these talks. They will have it if it ever goes to The Hague - but wherever it goes - as evidence that they have repeatedly raised the matter before the official Greek delegation, and if the European Union were to go they would not have such documents. Again, the Prime Minister didn't hear me and made his head. He has a right to do whatever the Prime Minister wants. It's okay. The Prime Minister is what he wants to do, especially when he does not respect neither Parliament nor anything. I'm saying now. I see one failure succeeding. I see Greece really being a shot and bombed building from everywhere. There's no stability in anything. But this thing of the frying, before we celebrated Easter and all the other parties outside, I'll tell you the truth, I that smelled elections, because that's exactly how Karamanlis acted in 2009. He didn't accept anyone for a week. It was discussed that there could be two - three things and that the elections were finally held. That's my opinion. Let the Delegation hear it, let us record the opinion, because this weekend we will be called upon to vote on some bills, which are not the product of agreement with the technical pillars of the institutions, which means "one-day actions". Isn't that right? Finally, since we have been talking for weeks, for months, the bills that the House will be voting on this weekend will be unilateral actions. From there on, we will also see what Europeans will do if they are afraid of Mr. Tsipras and tell him 'Take the money, my Christian, we definitely want you in Europe' or we will have dilemmas again. We'll see. A short psalm of each other. Don't worry. When a state is in a negotiation and without it being over, it votes in Parliament, what is that? Is it respect for the other side? Is it good faith? What's that? You'll be judging it. I would like to say something else that I considered important. I was in Argos and the President of the Republic spoke to me, whom I respect, because he is also a friend of my professor and we have old friendships. But he said two things. The one, which the New Democracy pointed out, I do not find it so important, because he did not read a text. Wanting to highlight the value of man against matter, as against materials, he made the mistake and instead of the phrase "materials gains", he used the word "currency". And because these days the currency is being discussed, it has been misinterpreted by some aspects. There I can tell you it was an exaggeration of the New Democracy. The President didn't mean - because I was ahead - that if they didn't want us, we'd go to the drachma. He didn't say that. He wanted to stress - he also used a historical person - the value of man against matter, of course. He said something else that's very important, and the media didn't get it. He said that at the Fourth National Assembly held by the Kapodistrias some resolutions were voted on. The ninth of the resolutions, which was passed at that Fourth National Assembly, was the sponsorship of the Prime Minister, who was never received, as Mr Pavlopoulou himself said. And after a while it says "I will walk in the footsteps of Kapodistria, just what he did, too." There were two MPs next door, the PASOK Maniatrist and one of SYRIZA, whom I don't remember what's his name.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u78	Giolas John.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u79	How? I'm not having a conversation with you. And I say to them: 'Have you understood what he said?' I realized he'd give up his salary. That's how I figured out, since he's gonna do exactly what the Capodist did. He heard a lot of people. I'm waiting, unless he said it on his ostrich. Then SYRIZA MP told me something else: "If our wages are cut, Mr. Leventis, how will we live?" He gave me another explanation of why they want their salaries in this Chamber and in the posts. You know, one of the seven points that I gave Flabourari is the 50% reduction in the salaries of President of the Republic, Prime Minister, MPs, Metropolitans, Mayors, Regional Authorities. That's what I asked for, and the Flampour didn't answer me. Does SYRIZA accept? I asked for a 50% reduction in the wages of the President of the Republic. He at Argos spoke of 100% of his wage cuts. I'm waiting. I only know that two mayors came from Italy and paid two wages here. Were there any Greeks they gave? And there's a solution that we have life-threatening needs. All right, the MP's salary today is 7,000 euros. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u80	It's 5,000 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u81	I'm lying? Is that 5,000 euros? Is that how you get? I think I'm a congressman, too. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u82	What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u83	Please! Half the payroll doesn't make it to you? Will you get to the point where you change your profession? Will you get to this point?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u84	What do you intend to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u85	I'm not talking to you. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Mr President, I have my opinion, with which the gentlemen disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u86	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u87	They're shouting. This is not a way of treating Members, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u88	You're the ones who have a dialogue!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u89	Please! Take your wages. But do you know what the people say outside? It says "go to your villages to see if you can". That's what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u90	You go to your villages, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u91	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u92	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u93	I'll say something else. Days ago I was talking to an ambassador of a great state, and I asked him what was going to happen with Skopje. I said to him, "Would you continue to say "Macedonia"? The Greek people will never swallow that." He tells me: "We think that Greece and Skopje are two states, but members of the same category of states, that is, they can enter NATO, Europe, etc. We therefore believe that these talks should be held between you and Skopje.' In fact, he added: "We succeeded in their Constitution to remove some of the views of albumism". I say to him: "Yes, in the Constitution you have eradicated what you say, but since they have done so, with celebrations, with statues of Alexander the Great, with flags and many ways they are insisting on altruism and indirectly on the way out to the port of Thessaloniki. They are clearly insisting on their texts. What about this case? Will it be perpetuated forever?’ So he turns around and says, "Mr. Samaras, George Papandreou and Mr. Tsipras have accepted the complex name, that is to say, the word "Macedonia", Mr. Leventis. They've accepted. Do you not accept it?’ I say: 'And if they have accepted it - which, in fact, have been accepted - if there is a referendum, if people ask, their voters will take that view at all. If they said they accepted it, they accepted it as a case if it were to be approached. The other side, however, is continuing with altruism and threats. That's how I see it." He says to me: 'What do you want us to do?' I said to him: "My view is that you must force them to change their name - that is what a political centre says, that is not a political right-wing politician - because the mistake was made by you, who immediately went and recognized them under the name "Macedonia" and when you did so, there was no case for them to bend and retreat. When they see Skopje acknowledging Macedonia as Macedonia, then would they make any retreat?' So I said to him: "You have the full responsibility, which is broken, persistent, aggressive. He thought about it. I say to him: 'In addition, there is a morality. What do you find? "Find them in Cyprus, Greek and Turkish," the Americans said all these years. Turkey is a militaristic state, Greece is a legitimate country. Do you have a legitimate country to find it with an attacking state? What happened in Cyprus is dishonest. You did the same there." He stands up and says, "Mr. Leventis, you have a point. Ethics invaded. International morality has been invaded. A four thousand-year-old state entered beside a two-three-year state, went and recognized the great states and then, let them retreat." I say: "The view of the Greek people, expressed by my mouth, is that if you respect international legitimacy, even if these politicians, you mentioned to me, accepted the composite name, I believe that Greece cannot be humiliated for the sake of such a country that operates so skeptically". That's what I mentioned. If you respect international morality, that's my opinion. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President is ringing.]] So there must also be a resolution from this House, in my view, before its term of office expires. Because, I predict that the term of office of this House will come to an end very quickly. Let the government say we've been going for four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u94	Won't you tell us anything about the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u95	For the bill, since you want me to talk about education, only the provision - the one that Mr Des brings - with two years of study in Cyprus to become lawyers here and enjoy equal treatment with the Law of Athens, only shows the dishonesty of the whole picture. I'm not saying anything else! You want two years of students to come here and be equal. That is what the Minister wants, unless you don't know how to read the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u96	Where did you see that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u97	Where did you see that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u98	The other thing is that you are bringing a bill and that you are constantly introducing amendments, that makes you an example of dishonesty in this House. It is dishonest, when we discuss an amendment, to bring in another hundred more from the window! [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] These aren't bills, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u99	Mr. Germenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u100	Thank you. First of all, let us remember that today we are closing down six years from the black tragedy of the three workers, the three employees of Marfin. In fact, one woman was pregnant. Six years is too much for the guilty to be found. The incident was due at noon, there were dozens of witnesses, and the memory of these people, who, for one part, lost their lives, should have been restored. In fact, some were underneath - of the same ideology as the government - who said 'let's not work that day'. Of course, you don't remember either the black anniversary of the Imian or the Sun. You forget the victims of the Greeks who have killed themselves from the Memorandum, who you voted for too. I mean, at this point, that, if these people, these killers had an ideological identity nationalistic, I would just say it was Golden Earns, some guys here, like here, where Mr. Dendias sat, would have ripped out everything to find the guilty. Unfortunately, this shows the downfall of a state that does not respect human life. We are talking here today about another bill which, as the government's rapporteur mentioned, is the second element of the framework, which is your Memorandum obligations. We have made it clear, gentlemen, that as Golden Dawn we have given our opinion. In a country that is located in the International Monetary Fund and not only in Greece, but in no country where the IMF has developed there has been no growth. How can a country stand by? What research and what training are we talking about when we have the balance above our head? The problem of leaving scientific and research staff is not solved by this bill. I quote, by 2013, that they had migrated a hundred fifty thousand scientists and researchers to seventy-four countries. Here is the point, Minister, which should concern this bill. Since the government of SYRIZA and ANEL does not begin to give all the weight to primary production, to reopen factories, craft industries, agricultural new crops, how else will the scientists who make the Greek universities be channelled? It is expected, then, that people go looking for work elsewhere. Let's go down. Weren't you the ones who yelled at, who were in the bars for the OECD toolbox? Now you're the same ones who invoke it. In fact, you say this out loud, that it is - it says - that the European Union has told you. Chapter II and Chapter III accused you of being accused of your own ex-children, such as OLEME and ILO, who described the bill as "problem". You were accused, in fact, of failing the promises you made in the election. Can we talk about Article 35 on the regulation of primary school schools? The organicity of kindergartens shall be determined on the basis of the equivalent of kindergartens to the number of infants, which may not be less than fourteen infants per kindergarten. The legislation in force provided for seven infants per kindergarten. The new regulation is expected to lead to a merger of kindergartens, which, of course, was not denied by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This will, of course, have a particularly adverse effect, since everyone understands that the minimum number of pupils will be fourteen, of which seven are now, actually, leading to the closure of a huge number of nursery schools. Here the mothers have two toddlers at home and they can't bring them over. Are you saying they can make it with twenty-five children in kindergarten? There's not going to be a lesson there. There will be nothing to teach toddlers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. Another article, which has given us particular impression, is Article 45. What does this article say? It is entitled ‘Repealed Provisions’. In the last part of the bill, there is the following pluralist provision under Law 2811/2000(2). The report points out: ‘The provision of criminal prosecution in any way hampers, disrupts or disrupts the smooth operation of public primary or secondary schools or is illegally staying in their operating areas’. This means that if there are any vandalisms - usually in the occupations there are such incidents - there will be no guilty ones. Young people or their accomplices - who may be anyone - will not be subject to any form of persecution. When you don't have to propose something creative to students for their future, you throw the ball into the stands, you disapprove the occupations, a few hours before you pass the anti-grass measures of the memorandum. Free left-wing expression will finally be able to find a way out without being prosecuted. This, rather, is the school some in the Greek Parliament dream of having Greek schools under occupation and not opening no nostrils. From there on, it is clear that we are voting against the bill in principle and on the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u101	Mr. Maniotis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to live in a surrealist parliament. It is a Parliament which is now called upon to discuss a bill, which, according to its title, deals with the issues of research and technology - it is very important and important, while three quarters of the bill find 'photographic' provisions and regulations which hit the core of a country's development, which is its own education and its people. I have heard that the Minister for Education, Mr. Friends, made a statement a moment ago that the entire school is not being abolished. I recall that the entire school was created in 2010 by the "bad" PASOK. And from 2010 until today they've been extended to 65%...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u103	The entire day's schools are the work of the late Arsenis and not Mrs Diamantopoulou! Don't mess it up!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u104	The PASOK government did it! Do we agree on that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u105	It's Arseni's work and not Mrs Diamantopoulou's!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u106	Do we agree that it is a PASOK project and has been extended to 65% of the school population?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u107	It was with the Greek people's money and the Community subsidies that you abandoned! That's what you did!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u108	The only thing you can do, if you want to be useful in education, is to extend this rate to 65% of the school population that is today, at 100%! Now bring a provision, which says that the entire day's schools extend to the entire school population of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u109	Don't confuse the entire school with the EAGF! Find out exactly what you're talking about! You're talking about different things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u110	Otherwise, Mr Minister, what you are doing really encourages the potential of families who long for their children to leave somewhere creatively and safely. And you actually beat these people, they can't resist. This is in no way a left-wing policy! And surrealism continues! Today we read that something is being done with the Pan-Hellenic Examinations Committee. The Minister is denying the post. In ten days 'common psalm crossings'! We'll all know who's lying! Well, one of them is lying! We are now in progress, a process with a Prime Minister, who has been characterised by Harvard as the handful, the kakito at world level, a negotiator in 2015 and the government of this Prime Minister exceptionally brings us within the weekend to legislate on the measures of the Memorandum - liquor, that is, 3.5 billion more. Why do these measures arise? Just because the partners, the government's interlocutors, who, together with them, sign a third and fourth memorandum, Mr. Tsipras do not trust him and ask for preventive measures, which will be voted on by the Greek Parliament before, even, the evaluation is completed! To complete surrealism, today, the cry of protest by Greek exporters and importers was announced, because we closed fifty days with the railway line in Islam. For fifty days the country's main railway axis, the import and export axis from the country's land road, is closed! And not only does the Minister feel the need for his Prime Minister to give up or give up, but there is not a single tear like that that which he spilled when he was forced to sign the privatisation of the fourteen airports. Of course, surrealism continues with this, which will be called upon by the majority Members to vote within the weekend, the depletion and the abandonment of the countryside in villages of over two thousand inhabitants, where the microprofessional is struggling to survive while keeping the hope and the existence of retired men and women alive. Ladies and gentlemen, what you are doing with the abolition of the OGA is issues that you will find in front of you very soon. Think again what you need to do. I come to the bill we've been asked to discuss today. I must tell you, I believe deeply, that Greek researchers, Greek scientists are the largest capital in this country. The people and the equipment paid by the Greek people over the past few years for the research institutions of the country is an incredible value of national, social, popular property. If we start at this starting point, we need to see what we are doing and how we are moving forward. Now look at the continuity of surrealism. Europe, as part of the Horizon 2020 programme, that is, for the next four to five years, undertakes to increase the budget for research and technology from 2% of GDP to 3% and to increase it from 0.6% of GDP to 1.2% of GDP. Colleagues and colleagues, is there even one of you in this Chamber, who believes that in the next one, two or three years, the country from 0.6% of GDP for research and technology will reach 1.2%? So someone's making fun of someone. We are coming here to discuss a bill which is cursing about others, but not about the substance of research and technology. And I explain: can money be found outside public investment, since I was objectively a bankrupt country, can it not even come out of the fourth Memorandum of Tsipras to support its public expenditure on research and technology? Come on, now, let's see what a government could do, which would really be interested. Minister, it's none of your business. Mr. Fotakis is missing. He's a remarkable scientist. It's not about the scientist, it's about the politician that brings us the bill. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u111	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u112	Question 1, does one of us know which of this country's financed programmes, in the last five years they have been applied to small and medium-sized enterprises in the country and how much wealth they have spared and how much jobs have they done? Here is a point on which the Greek Parliament should be invited to give its opinion. Question two. Does this incredible human and material wealth, which exists in Greek research institutes, know if it can produce new public wealth and largely self-finance the research institutes themselves? We don't have to go far. Nearly all European countries show how applied research can be self-financed at the same time, with its own income, to help research scientists who have no other resources.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u113	Please, Mr. Maniotis, finish it up. You wasted time on the weekend bill. Put a perfect one on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u114	I will, Mr President. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying this. It is very important when we discuss the problems of research and technology to land in what is the future of this place. And the future of this place is nothing but the possibility of financing research and technology from its powers, mainly from outside public sources,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u115	All right, Mr. Maniatis, put it right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u116	...so that in competitive programs he can participate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u117	Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, as there is no development for everyone, there is no neutral research in any class society. So the crucial and fundamental question is always "research by whom and for whom"? This question, of course, is answered by the government and by this draft law, as it answers every day with the whole of its policy. By baptising capitalist development, development, which includes and prescribes the anti-Fraud and anti-Fraud policy, the Government seeks, in this case, to tie scientific research more closely to the tank of the profitability of business groups, with a driver, always, the European Union 2020 strategy, which, of course, has the same aims. At the opposite end of this policy, there is certainly the development of scientific research at the service of the people. This is the alternative to the fundamental original question. This, however, requires a different social and economic organization. It requires the socialisation of the concentrated means of production, the scientific central design of production. In short, it requires the power of producers of wealth and not, as now, the power of capital. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill, which is being discussed today for research, is nothing but an update and a retourism of the Memorandum No.4310/2014 of the previous New Democracy-PASOK co-government and a preparation at the same time for a more comprehensive legislative framework, fully adapted to the current needs of capitalist profitability. His torso, his twenty-fifths of first articles, which refer to the research, are, in essence, an extensive amendment of Law 4130/2014 so that he can be better implemented. Of course, all the main objectives of this Memorandum law, which SYRIZA allegedly would be abolished, are maintained and strengthened. In other words, the promotion and strengthening of the business of public research centres remains in all ways. It remains the unambiguous orientation of their research activity to the needs of competitiveness and profitability of capital rather than the current social majority needs, in line with the possibilities of science. So we have, ladies and gentlemen, another proof that the bill under consideration remains intact the core of the policy of all the previous governments. It is another proof that today's coup d'état took over the role of a follower of the same anti-population policy. It is another proof that political forces, which have a strategic symposium, have absolutely no problem supplementing their legislation, except sometimes voting together and memoranda. The same applies to higher education, which the bill pushes even further into the arms of the capitalist market, strengthening and stepping up its business. In other words, we have universities and TEI businesses. Basically, Law 4009/2011- the "Damadopoulou Law", as known, is maintained intact. It is characteristic that the boards of institutions are maintained, for which SYRIZA has already made such a noise, hypocritically, as it proved - councils which are actually the representatives and localists of the capitalist market within universities and TEIs. As for the so-called exploitation of the property of the PIs, the sale of their infrastructures to the different private contractors, here the bill outweighs the bill, validating the relevant legal persons of private law, provided for by the Law of Diamantopoulou, which would also allegedly be abolished by SYRIZA, prompting even more universities and TEIs to act as businesses, breaking down the rights of students of the people's families in housing, food, education itself. You say in the explanatory statement, on primary and secondary issues, that urgent issues are being dealt with. What do you think of as urgent matters? Is it the thousands of shortages of teachers even today? Did the suffocating financial situation of school units due to sub-financing? Is it the polypathic specific treatment that you shrink into the name of the reactionary inclusion? Did the appointing of thousands of teachers and the consequent giantization of their temporary elastic work? None of this and many other things that are nourished by your government policy and education. It is not, of course, the first time that the Ministry of Education has promoted fragmentary legislation on primary and secondary education. However, this does not mean that these arrangements are also of a fragmentary nature. Some of them, such as Article 35 for kindergartens, also have a classic content for people's needs in education, depriving thousands of children of pre-school treatment. Withdrawal, Minister, Rule 35! It's the least you have to do! The main arrangements, which you bring, are governed by the same logic and are the votes of the same mosaic of education, designed on the canvas of the European Union and the OECD, and also by a Memorandum of Understanding, since August last year. Such are, the negative arrangements for the integration departments, the arrangements for kindergartens are, in this bill, the recent Circular of the Ministry for the new programme of primary schools. In a cynical way, you legislate cuts and save costs from education, so that you can squeeze on incentives, tax exemptions and privileges on business groups. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need one minute in the context of equal treatment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u119	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u120	Thank you. In order to save costs, in addition to strangling the integration departments and the closure of kindergartens, you also change the programme of the primary schools by removing teaching hours, which means less educational staff, less recruitments beyond the consequences to their own students and families, which if the poor and unemployed are unemployed, their children are not entitled to the full day. Finally, in response to the JRC's criticism at the last meeting, Mr. Fotakis, having said a good conversation - free of charge is the words - on the political proposal of our party, he asked himself by a fabulously "and what do we do until then?" What are you doing? Grow away the people, like the previous ones, to save their capital and profits. All of you are serving this, whether for research, for education or for health. Your last feat is to bring within the weekend the monster of an euphemist insurer, considering that you're going to get the people to sleep.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u121	Mr. Delia, please complete. You'll take the floor for the weekend. You don't have the floor anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u122	They laughed at you! The industrialists, the mechanics and the shipowners may have run first - first to tell you well - and I am finishing with this - why you are giving them what they wished for so many years to get rid of the insurance policy, but you are not fooling the people. The palatial uprising is already under way, against the anti-insurance abortion you're bringing. We will do whatever goes through our hand, this fight will come to the end to be the people master in his place and his life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u123	The Minister of Friends has the floor. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u124	Good evening, many years. First of all, I would like to put forward the legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting on education takes place within the political climate created by the question of evaluation. It is clear that the government is fighting, making it clear that there is a red thread: it is not going to sign anything more and nothing less than what was agreed in August. However, I would like to say that this controversy, which has been created around the question of evaluation, is not right to lure and create a tension between the political parties on the question of education, because the question of education, which is reasonable to be dealt with by different starting points from the various political aspects, must at the same time be faced with the aim of finding a common place, a common good for society as a whole. And the choices we make - step by step, the democratic educational reform that we are promoting, precisely in this regard, is aimed at an upgrade of public school, to restore the right of children and families to education. And I must say that it was a bit strange to say that the President of the New Democracy Conference, Mr Mitsotakis, who called the school's 'clients' students and gave the impression in his speech that he would introduce market criteria, perhaps even tuition, from what we understood, in schools. It's obvious and you all understand that when Mr. Mitsotakis calls the students in schools as clients, the neoliberal concept of education has left. It's all trade and small students consumers. No right, but trade, so it's education. So many days, even though it has been pointed out, Mr. Mitsotakis has not corrected it. Today he came out and made a statement of misleading, that we supposedly abolish the full-day school, but he did not say a word about the phrase'students-customers' in schools. But the people know and understand. I referred earlier to the steps we are taking slowly - in the difficulties of the budgetary reality that we know - to restore public education, to change it. We want a school of quality and equality, a school of cooperation and not insurmountable competition. I say this again: a school of quality and equality, a school of cooperation and not insurmountable competition. We want a school that we're dealing with, not superficial and opportunistic, but underneath. Fourteen-year-old compulsory education, starting with the strengthening of two-year-old pre-school education, is in our priorities. We're reforming school programs. We are opening kindergartens in preschools, which have been waiting for regulation for many years now. We are establishing the single type of full-day primary school, which forms equal educational opportunities for children throughout the country. We're reducing the tests for the benefit of learning time. We promote descriptive evaluation. We are shaping conditions for reducing the matter to make the student's bag lighter. We are creating conditions for the upgrading of high school and high school, which has today, unfortunately, gone into the state of the lobby for universities and not in a school with an autonomous educational role. We reconstruct technical vocational training so that ESDPs are not treated as schools for children of a lower god. We are going to train teachers, a necessary process which has been forgotten for so long, not under the responsibility of teachers. As far as special education is concerned, after many years we are starting to establish new sections of integration into the conception of inclusive teaching, the most modern of all the developed world today, in Europe, in America and elsewhere. I repeat: after many years we have established new branches of integration. We have also shown, this year, the mass recruitment of substitutes, especially in special education, our practical interest in an area that, as you know, has been left, despite the announcements and the great words from the other governments. We are moving on to the creation of the single area of higher education and research. The draft law we are debating today is not about the whole of research, but about research centres. The research bill will be here as well. We develop the digital school with enrichment programs in schools with modern computer laboratories with lower cost. No more a party known for political families. No more digital merchandise party. We reorganize the strengthening teaching and upgrade the Second Chance Schools. We are actually making the state certificate of foreignlanguage education so that the Greek public school can give qualifications for foreign languages and for IT and that families do not run to spend right and left to get titles trusted. We could say more, but reform in education is primarily the strengthening of democracy, not only in the sense that it must promote equality between children, but also in the sense that teachers and students must feel a climate of freedom. And what happened with the SYRIZA Government in education is all the teachers, wherever they belong, if they truly speak, that there is a climate of freedom, a air of freedom from last June, when the vengeance and punishment were past, when the teachers felt they could teach with their standing and not afraid. Today, with the bill, we are abolishing a provision of the pupil courts. It's the story of criminalizing the student conquests. We have heard some who are ready to substitute the argument, with the pizza. It's the authoritarian concept of education. Before the New Democracy Members were urged, however, I would like to tell them that Ms Anna Psarouda - Benaki, former President of Parliament, in a speech on the subject, stated that it was wrong to criminalise student mobility. He said there are many ways of teaching to work the school, to solve conflicts. But justice and the police must not interfere in school. I repeat that we are bringing democracy back to school and to that level. We are therefore facing education as a social right and education as a democratic process and school as a school of equality and quality. These days, and indeed with the statement made by the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, a story of deception has begun. They say that we, as a government, want to abolish the full-day school. She's a lie and she's got short feet, she'll show up in September, assuming something like that happens. We have political responsibility and we tell you that not only do we abolish the full-day school, but we upgrade it and extend it to all of Greece through the establishment of the single type of full-day primary school. To date, two or three types of primary school operate. I mean, there are many classes of students. Now equality is guaranteed. In particular, two thirds of the primary schools were operated with the type of classic primary school, which completed from 12.15 ́, and had basically been confined to classical language, mathematics and so on. Secondly, a third of schools operated as an EPA, a Single Reformed Educational Programme. The first, the whole day, was the work of late Arsenis. The second was Mrs Diamantopoulou's work. Don't be confused. These NCAs were therefore for pilot implementation - I stress it - which was largely financed by the NSRF and did not join the state budget. And now is the time to evaluate this pilot project and make decisions. Not for a third of schools, but for all schools. With the single-type regulation of a full-day primary school - to stress - we are making use of the ENP's positives, because it was positive and we are trying to incorporate positive elements of the EPPC into the programme, because it has also had negative effects. So the single school we establish will be exotic every day, that is, students will finish their homework at 13.15 ’ So far two thirds of the schools have been schooling since 12.15 ́ and one third at 14.00 ́. Now all schools - I stress, everything - will end at 13.15' and follow the full day, which will be three hours and is upgraded with a set of teaching objects, such as computers, English, sport, artistic, theatrical, music, cultural groups. It will also be an opportunity for children to acquire psychomotor and cognitive skills as they should at this age. Therefore, we must stress that we are extending and not limiting the good things that exist in the EIPA throughout education. 90% of the EAFRD extends throughout Greece, despite the unfavourable budgetary conditions, and despite the fact that previous governments and especially the PASOK governments had abandoned the EASC to the fate of the NSRC. They hadn't put it in state funding. We are taking this step. Does anyone suggest we do 100% and not 90%? Is that possible? Let's talk about it. But, I repeat, he also had negative evidence. First - first, the seven - hour EASA in educational terms has been criticised, for the seven - hour practically meant that children of a very young age were for many hours in non-functional buildings locked up. They themselves, the teachers' movement, had reacted to this EAGF and asked that this time extension should not be allowed. Therefore, we are setting up an exotic and not an anti-educational seven-hour. Secondly, we extend, as I told you, to all the schools the lessons and actions that existed only in the EAGF, i.e. visuals, computing, music, theatre, English for the first class more and an increase in training hours in the first four classes. Thirdly, we limit the over-examination and fragmentation of school. Those of you who have an experience in teaching will know that we must not weaken the relationship of young pupils with the teacher. We do not want to transfer to primary school a landscape of fragmentation of cognitive objects, which is taught by non-trained teachers. Specialisations remain and can be operational within the programme through a reform. But we must not lead to the high school education. The relationship of the young learner with the teacher and teacher is very essential, it is a primary one. There must be no diffusion of this relationship. The specialties will, as I mentioned earlier, concern all schools and not just the ESAs. Therefore, a large number of deputies will still be needed - because most specialties are with substitutes - and teachers to the extent that jobs are not filled. Fifth, in the entire day's school there won't be a permanent full-day school teacher. The school teacher in charge will be on schedule. This is not about saving. It is once again a pedagogical concept, because the isolation of the teacher in the whole day, that is, outside teaching practice, is unscientific and undisciplined. The teacher will be there and go to the kids all day long, I repeat on schedule, not every day. This story is the wrong scientific and pedagogical. I could also refer to other issues. We will be able to tell you the exact number of alternates' recruitments, once the process of transferring, extracting and others is finished at the end of June, I imagine that we will know the gaps and surpluses. We believe that then we will be able to make other improvements, further improvements, such as those I hear in the public debate. The second issue is kindergartens. As you know, it is the law since 1985, and it stipulates that kindergartens by areas and gradually satisfy the need for preschool children. Since this year we want to strengthen the tendency for early-school children to go to kindergartens, because families have no money to go to kindergartens, but also because it is right and necessary for some steps to be taken to strengthen the second year of pre-school in public kindergartens. The law - and not us - for many years now states that the number of pupils in each kindergarten class is twenty-five. I don't understand the fuss that's going on. We say that the minimum number will be fourteen. Twenty-five is the maximum number, and we say fourteen. You'll tell me it's been seven so far. Yeah, but he was a divider. In practice - and those who went through the ministry or educational associations know - the seven acted as a divider. And so they created unrealistic images of kindergartens. So we want to see the fourteen minimums, to serve schools, to be able to attend children in preschools as well. In small, degraded areas or, where there are no possibilities, we have anticipated a wide range of kindergartens to be five. It was seven and we downloaded it in five in these cases. However, I would like to say to you - and that is what matters - that we are not going to close any kind of kindergarten because the number of fourteen is not complete. I say that again and note it. Another can be opened if necessary, but to close kindergarten, forget about it! There are cases of kindergartens that have a student and we know one in Thessaly. I don't understand if there's a pedagogical perception of having kindergarten with a child. Does anyone support it? I'm asking. We all know that the basic pedagogical concept of infants is the team partnership. They do not take care of children or make them park there, but teams of five students who alter - that is why we say fourteen - will be able to take part in the kindergarten for this opportunity, team-working and employment. For technical education, for which we have tabled a great provision, I would like to say that for us it needs to have a central role in the school system. This means, first, that her courses must be upgraded, that specialization and early class selection of 15 should not begin. To be able to move forward in the third year, specialization should take place. So the first year of the PCA will be a general education in technical terms, the second will be the modules and then we will have the subject of specialization. In addition, we have introduced a fourth year of apprenticeship this year, where we are linking the seniors of various specialists with industries and other businesses, without black work, with guaranteed rights and with a dismissal showing that they have taken part in this apprenticeship. That's our choice. No model of early class selection from the fifteen, i.e. "Take specialty and leave, get lost". Oh, no. A full education in this child, a seal of apprenticeship and not black work, and all the children from technical high school want to go to the HEIs and TEIs can go, not close the road. That is our proposal and we have tabled it. To conclude, I should like to refer to an issue which, in our view, is the Gordian link to education today. It is the issue of public grant and appointments. It is obvious that without appointments, with the recycling of the deputy system, the school cannot function. It works marginally and in a manner that does not honour our country as a whole. As Ministry of Education we have formulated a specific proposal for twenty thousand appointments by 2018, in particular. He's been asked to give it to you, too. This proposal has been blocked by the troika because it is about the evaluation of the programme. He looks at the general issue of government appointments. We believe that some time will be solved - sooner or later - and so we will find the process to proceed with these appointments gradually. It is obvious that the education "watches the cross of the testimony" which has to do with the memorials, which has to do with the crisis, which has to do with the dissolution and dismantling of five Community frameworks from the previous governments. Riches also entered education, but unfortunately few things have been seen by students and teachers from this rich grant! They went to the 'Golden coal', to the various recruitments, to the various supplies made and, of course, to a conception of hostage for young children, because substitutes are a hostage system. That's the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aiming to promote as the SYRIZA Government the gradual increase in public investment in education from 2.8%, which is today, on the average of the euro area countries that are over 4%!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u126	Put that in the medium term!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u127	If we were to put what Mr Samaras said in the medium term, we should have reached 1.9% today. Do you remember it or not? If it were Mr Samara's medium-term, we'd be at 1.9% today! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Don't scratch on the slut, Mr. Comrade! Okay? Let go of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u128	Put 4% in the medium term!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u129	We're targeting. And the main objective is the reconstruction of the social state, which means public education, health and a system of social solidarity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u130	Minister, you have your second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u131	I'll be right over. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we are a government inspired by the great movement of educational and social popularism in the last century in our country, by Delmuzo, by Glenos, by Triantafylides, by Kounduras, by the Impriotis, by Sotiri, by Papanouchos, by the Megarades. Of all these, we are inspired by the great democratic progressive tradition that has given the battle in our country, so that the school is a school of folk, democratic, equality school, a school which enables all children to rise and not to become an intrusion of a hard class struggle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u132	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u133	Mr. Treasury, should Mr. Lightlas be inserted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u134	No, Mr President, Mr Fotillas has not been inserted, because the Minister raised very important issues. He said so good, anyway!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u135	The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr. Dendias, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u136	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is one of the rare cases that I hope, for the sake of the great teachers to whom the Minister referred, that there will be no later life, because if they hear that the existing government policy in education calls on them to be spiritual fathers, I fear that they will probably be at least upset where they are. If they had the opportunity to contact the Greek Parliament today, Minister, you would not be happy! But I would like to start with something else. First of all, it has been heard by many colleagues here - I think rightly - a memorable reference to the victims of MARFIN. I, too, would like to add my voice and the voice of the New Democracy and say something else that the National Representation may not know, that the prosecution authorities of the country have conducted a specific criminal prosecution through the public prosecutors, against particular persons for the murders of these four people. This case is before Greek justice. The Greek police sent me a specific file to the prosecutor's office, and the prosecutor prosecuted the criminal prosecutions. In the opinion of the prosecution authorities, responsibilities have been personalised. It's not in rem. They're against certain people. And the persecutors are convinced that these are the murderers who have been deprived of these four - I refer also to the preyer - human lives. Justice will be judged. I now come to the legislation under discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to refer first to the majority Members before I come to the Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your pardon, what devaluations can you take from this government, you who support it with your vote? What underestimates your intelligence, your dignity and your role as a MP? To what point? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Please explain to me, if you are kind, the following: these two amendments on vocational training, which are submitted forward and which are thirty-eight-page amendments, can they ever be accepted and voted on as a legislative procedure by any - even if it has room for tolerance, dignity - majority of parliament anywhere in the civilised world? Any of you can until tomorrow know what these amendments are saying here before you vote on them? But you know, when the insult comes, it doesn't come alone. Your dignity is not underestimated only in this way. It makes you much worse. What was submitted here, by the State Secretary for Education, is called "nominal improvement". I'll show you. So I say to you that in paragraph (d) of Article 27, which is absolutely misguided, expenditure is being created at the expense of the state budget. This is all called 'nominal improvement' here. Do you want to look at the Rules of Procedure of the House how the legislative improvement is defined? And because ridiculousness has no end, do you know that they also bring legal improvements to the proposed amendments, because they have not been able to write them? Please, for God's sake, can you vote for these things? I respect and appreciate each of you. Can these things ever be voted on? Is it possible for this government to invoke any modernization, any moral right, when it humiliates the Greek Parliament as a whole, all of us, and the last, regardless of political considerations? It is a government which has so far brought seven legislation, some according to legislative acts, of which it has voted - if my measure is not wrong by one or two - two hundred and twenty-three amendments. Is that legislation? And I am telling you this very clearly that the previous government - and I would like to tell you that - has been wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u137	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u138	This, however, is a complete ridicule. And in any case, have you come to repeat and increase the mistakes of the past? Why don't you tell us? Why don't you tell the Greek society that, "we came here to get much worse than the previous ones, to do what the previous ones did for ten, for twenty, for thirty, to make a fool of what was left standing"? Why don't you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u139	We can't!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u140	Is it possible that these things will come here and be voted on? Ladies and gentlemen, we must now go to the legislation. First of all, I have said that if the German Minister for Finance, at a time of total magnanimity, was in agreement with the German Parliament and the European Union - I leave the International Monetary Fund to the band - and gave the entire Greek debt! - if we were told tomorrow morning "You don't owe anything, gentlemen, go on!" in ten years we'd be in the same mess again. Why? Because elsewhere is the cause of evil. One of the causes of evil is that we do not create innovative products. The participation of innovation in our Gross National Product does not exceed 0.5%. And, of course, the sums from the state budget for research - a cause, but not the only cause of evil - vary according to the way you measure them, from 0.6% to 0.8% of GDP. So a government is coming after a year and a half to face up to one of the great sources of maliciousness of the Greek economy, and against that, it brings, Mr Minister, this piece of legislation. This piece of legislation, you bring, a piece of legislation, which only refers to provisions of a law that you had previously praised, when this law, by the way, which I, incidentally, co-signed at that time, did not consider it sufficient, I considered it a first step. And this is your answer to the winter Greek economy, a series of references to the previous legislation, corrections, rhetorical changes, without even codification. This is what you bring here and ask the National Representation to take this piece of legislation seriously as the government's answer after eighteen months on the major research issue. Ladies and gentlemen, I honestly say to you - because I respect you, but I respect myself and the party of which I am a member - I am ashamed to deal more with. These things aren't serious. It's empirically unsubstantially unspeakable! And I am sure - and I will tell you that I am sure - that I honor the minister present, whom I do not know, but I honour him with hearing that he is not proud either. I noticed his first talk here. In an object, which is also his professional activity, he did not once raise his head from the text. He read the whole of his talk. First of all, this is forbidden by the Rules of Procedure. You know that. However, I am not commenting on that. Do you know why the Rules of Procedure prohibit this? Because the legislator says that if you know what you're suggesting, you don't need a note. If you don't know what you're suggesting and reading it, then you and we have a very big problem with whom you're suggesting it. So I am convinced - because I respect the Minister - that he does not believe what is being proposed. After all, in the explanatory statement itself, he promises that after a while... What is this time of truth? What government life do you think you have?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u141	Four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u142	Do you think you have a long time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u143	Two more years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u144	Four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u145	Four years you're still counting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u146	And four more, eight more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u147	It will be good work for you to have four months. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] So I say to you that, as a legislative initiative here too, all you have been saying for a year and a half is that, 'we'll bring something else in any case, that's an emblematic one, because it's something to which certain arrangements need to be made'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u148	Why do you believe what you're saying now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, let's go further. By the way, it is not worth telling us why the reference here is not made to Article 179 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. What was in the previous law is missing. To understand, is it a legal omission, such as a bunch of others that exist in the text, or has the government decided that we will leave the European Union and start and get the relevant references out of the legislative texts?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u150	What about the European Union? Not just from the Eurozone?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u151	I beg your pardon, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u152	What about the European Union? Not just from the Eurozone?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u153	Totally. Let's not do half the jobs. Let's do it all!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u154	Of all things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u155	However, the referral - to your information, because I am sure you have not read it, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, probably and very well, is not worthy - concerns the Treaty on European Union, not matters of currency, of the Union. There are too many things that one can say about education. I do not go into the articles, i.e. I do not go into the logic of why a council should be appointed by the Minister, who will elect the other council, which will also be appointed by the Minister. We define, in other words, the ones we define. These innovative 'first time left' comments tomorrow, if you like. Because I told you again, to the limits of legislative ridicule, there is obviously no end. There may be no beginning, but in any case. Let's go a little on education issues, even though I won't be able to develop them. The Minister of Friends accused the President of New Democracy Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis of using the word "customers". Really? Do we really have to report Mr. Mitsotakis? Did you hear what he said? Did you read his speech? Mr. Mitsotakis said that the Greek student has the right to the public school, that is to say, to the customer, who has already paid a price for the services he receives and not for the deprivation of the rightful place of the national, as the present Minister and this Ministry treats him. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] The Greek student through his parents and the Greek taxpayer has paid a resounding price and it is his right to have the education services. It's not the Ministry's right and donation. Let's get this straight. The effort of the majority and the government - because these do not match and I honor many of you much more than I honor the government as a whole - is a heterostreal definition of Civilian Opposition as a supposedly neoliberal, is a supreme Marxist ridicule. If you want to blame us since 1974, and then as an order, you can accuse us of being detained. Neoliberalism in your dreams. Not least. Many, I must not say, criticising my own party and not even liberalism. I'm coming to tell you something else. I shall refer to the work of the Ministry of Education tomorrow. In the last minute of my time, I would like to say the following: The Minister for Education is here to abolish the provision, which is allegedly criminalized by the trade union activity of students. Do you want me to read the provision of which the abolition is proposed, to see what it said? He said: "Whoever..." - notice, not the students, but "who" - "...in any way prevents, disrupts or interrupts the normal functioning of public primary or secondary schools or is illegally punished in their operating areas..." and so on. As you can see, the student cannot remain illegally in the school business area. Therefore, the provision is not about students. So tell me who it's about. Who's this covering here? "Marfin" Day! Who's this covering here? Who do we want to get rid of criminal persecution for now or for the future? What do we commend? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have a great deal to say on the issues of the Ministry of Education and, in particular, on the innovations it allegedly introduces and the changes it allegedly brings, but we will do so tomorrow in the debate on the articles. We can't make it today. I just wish - and I say again - that the great fathers of education, to whom the Minister referred earlier, have not heard his speech this evening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u156	Thank you, too. Mr. Fotillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u157	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u158	In dialogue with the overrun, we started with dialogue with the overrun. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u159	I want to inform the honourable Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy that the provision that we are abolishing was, by devilish coincidence, the one on the basis of which dozens of students and no outsiders were brought to court. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Secondly, I would like to inform him, although a duly legal person, that there is criminal law which provides for punishment for those who, as you say, are out-of-school for those who enter, invade and prevent the operation of the school. This provision, which the school and educational world has called 'learning court', which is peculiar to students, was a punishment clause for students. Secondly, it was good to try and justify your Chief for the phrase "students are school customers". If you read the whole text, not even what you said, they are not mentioned. It is clear and it even refers to the concept, if you see it, of multiple sources of funding for public education. The client chooses. It's taking us somewhere to the vouchers. But I would like Mr Mitsotakis to be here and this dialogue to understand what he meant and explain it to us. I apologise for taking the floor. It was necessary, however, to clarify these.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u160	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u161	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u162	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u163	I would also like to say a few words to Mr Tindemans, without reading a text this time, as he said. I don't think I was reading before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u164	By heart!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u165	Progress, Minister. By heart!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u166	By heart, yeah. I particularly appreciate his comment that we do not create innovative products in Greece. I would like to ask him: why has this been happening for forty years?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u167	I'll answer you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u168	The first is that. And I know very well the answers, Mr. Dendia, much better, I believe, than you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u169	Get the answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u170	Okay, rhetoric is the question, Mr. Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u171	When they look at me, it's usually not rhetoric. In any case, I can take it as a rhetorical gesture.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u172	The second is the Rusphetological Regulations in this bill. I would like you to tell us what these specific regulations are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u173	Can I tell you now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u174	Minister, please. You have a dentistry. Say it to your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u175	Finally, you referred again to the subject of the ESRB, which is defined by the Minister in a transitional phase for four months. Who has been defining the ESRB for so many years, for three years, not for four months? Why is this suspicion? Do you know who will be members of the new ESRB? Why do you think that there are already predetermined situations such as this in order to give the impression that the new ESRB, which will really be made up of well-known international scientists, will function in a way which at least I believe is a testament to any academic responsibility and understanding? They're renowned people, Mr. Teddy, and you'll see them. I hope that you will review your opinion at that time, because with these opinions which are expressed, what is actually being done is to completely underestimate the institution of the ESRB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u176	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u177	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u178	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u179	I would just like to talk about the legislative improvement referred to in Article 27, the EDPS - EIB and so on. And for which Mr Denktash accused us of or confirmed the incompetence and incompetence that he sees us in contrast, of course, to their previous governments and their capacity. I would like to inform him, therefore, that it existed in the original text, passed by the Committee on Formats, it has passed through the General Accounting Office of the State and there is a specific legislative improvement. I would like to inform you, Mr Tindemans, that you have spoken of the very high capacity of the previous governments, that it concerns a category of workers in the higher institutions, who have been with Mr Tindemans. 4009/2011 they were completely retired. Presidential decrees are pending since 2011. Recruitment has been pending since 2008. These people have been in hostage until today. I would like to inform my dear colleagues and fellow Members that, if there are so many amendments, if there are any articles that appear to be bricks and horns, as we are accused, it is because there are so many loose ends left by the previous governments, which we should have legislated every day, and we can somehow resurrect all these loose ends. Look a little better and it's good to read a little carefully. You've found a ruffles candy, photographic devices and all that. I invite you to tell me what you have done for the highest institutions. But I will briefly tell you in my speech, Mr. Dendia, that you are very pleased with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u180	I'll tell you in your speech. Thank you. Mr. Fotella, you'll get a transfer to the JRC if you sit more. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u181	I heard that too! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u182	From New Democracy, you're going straight to the JRC!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u183	Because of a tie, maybe!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u184	Should I take the floor on personal grounds? Today's bill: 'Research and other provisions' is a tangible example of the SYRIZA legislation that we have been experiencing in Parliament lately. Once again, in other words, we see the phenomenon of fragmentary provisions of a state-sponsored logic regarding research, other provisions in consultation and others now. Already in the first article of the draft law is outside the European framework and Article 179 of the Treaty on European Union. We don't talk about that. The report by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament says so. I don't know if you read it. Of course, there are clearly photographic arrangements for certain categories of friends of the government. I have seen, Mr Minister, that you have brought arrangements to assist the SAAP with an amendment. But you are not telling us why the process of recognizing the professional rights of thousands of graduates from universities and colleges is being hampered, despite your relevant announcements and the questions we have asked you at times. Of course, there are again unnecessary amendments, including one related to the recruitment of journalists to the Ministry of the Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, four more than two for each Deputy Minister. Alas! After all, how can the new SYRIZA - ANEL be built without a communication avata? There's something I saw now a while ago. I have seen an amendment concerning the transfer of unsettled property from the Ministry of Health to the Ministries of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. Paragraph 3 states that the use, leasing, divestment, concession with or without consideration and the management of the real estate shall be effected by a decision of the Secretary-General of Procurement. I mean, the secretary-general will take a piece of land, he will give wherever he wants, without any consideration and no excuse. The conclusions of yours! Two are the provisions which I think show the general philosophy of this legislation, especially at universities. One provision was analysed sufficiently by our special speaker, Mr Mavrotas, for Article 33(7) concerning the posting of teachers and teachers in the place of laboratory and teaching staff at universities. I would like to insist on the second provision concerning the Foundation Councils referred to in Article 26, because there has also been a public debate in the committee, but also between me and the Deputy Minister, Mrs Anagnastopoulou, in the media. Let us not be fooled, the provision also relates to the question I have tabled regarding the TEI of Western Greece. First of all, under the provision of paragraph 2 of Article 26, you further cut down the powers of the boards of institutions which constituted an institutional counterweight to accountability and control of the Senate and the Dean, the President. You've been trying to remove them for a long time and you've used all the means for that. We are not forgetting, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, the violence and the threats that have been exerted by members of your party to members of the academic community at the time you were opposition. In fact, I think it will be a disgrace to you for your actions in this area. But what do you do now? Take from the institution boards and the competence to set up a committee to attract candidates for the post of the dean to a hearing open to the community of the institution. The demolition project normally proceeds, despite the announcements of supposedly dialogue on education and consensus. However, the provision in paragraph 4 of the same article, which provides for the performance of duties by the Senate in the event that the Council of the Foundation fails to exercise its powers, has a history of the illegal operation of the TEI of Western Greece. Let me talk about this. The Foundation Council of the Foundation of Western Greece was set up on 11 April 2014 and the resignations of its members were made on 25 February 2015, that is, during the government of the "first time left" and not on the previous government, as the dear Minister in all the cases - and I do not say ironically - allegedly - on radio. In fact, according to the existing provisions, the Senate could not - and it did not - decide on matters within the board of an institution such as the establishment of quality assurance units and postgraduate tuition fees. After August 2015, however, things changed and suddenly the TEI began to work illegally, after the Senate illegally took over the responsibilities of the board of the institution. I would therefore like to inform the Minister that the Foundation's illegal operation has been a matter for the past few months in the government of SYRIZA - ANEL and the comment 'that has so far been made at the TEI of Western Greece'. In fact, as if the Senate did not arrive in the absence of the institution board, the President of the TEIs illegally approved the appointment of Deputy President of Academic Affairs and Deputy President of the ECB on the basis of an equivalent presidential decree concerning the TEI. However, he indicated that this procedure would take place until the new President became and not then, as arbitraryly happened and continues now. The Minister said that there is a provision in the Diamantopoulou Act. Show me what this provision is and where that provision is, because I think you are deliberately confusing it with the act of legislation dated 8-10-2015 which has been passed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which said that the proclamation of the elections can be done by the Senate and not by the institution board, if there is a problem. Rather, because she did not find this provision, she decided to legislate on it now and give her forgiveness to the President of the TEI for the sake of Easter days, I imagine. I would like to remind her that the procedures for the appointment of a new institution council are the responsibility of the Ministry. In accordance with Article 8(13) of the Law. The Board of an institution may also act by decision of the Minister, any missing members shall be replaced by a subsequent member in the election order. Although this is not possible, again by decision of the Minister is replaced by a draw among the first grade teachers of the institution. And although this is not possible, the institution responsible for holding the elections shall without delay hold elections to show up a new institution council. As Ms. Anagnostopoulos pointed out in her interview, the Ministry's leadership had been informed of the need for a new institution council. Obviously it is not the case that there are no people available for this work, because as far as I know there are at least 10 first-stage teachers who would like their participation in this institution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. Instead of restoring legality by moving forward with the procedures for a new institution board, the Ministry and the Government here brings us a provision that legalises illegality, while, in accordance with paragraph 6, effectively exempts constituencies from the obligation to establish an organisation or rules of procedure. So you do, ladies and gentlemen of the government, in the oldest way, despite your announcements on the contrary. As part of the policy of false promises you have made, with the so-called upgrading of full-day municipal schools, you continue your impasse policy with dramatic consequences for citizens. But it is nearing the time that an end will be made to this downhill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u185	Mrs. Jufi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my position with the same question that I raised and when I first spoke to the committees: is it important to discuss scientific research with openly the fronts of the negotiation, evaluation and management of the refugee flows? In my opinion, the answer is affirmative, especially if we consider that the research process is a body of knowledge and culture, which is what is, in any case, an essential social asset which is extremely valuable in the suffocating context that we are experiencing, the irreversible memorial austerity policies, which for some are never enough, especially when the left, with repeated commands from the Greek people, lies. The climate, then, or else the political framework in which we are talking about, has on some sides outside and within Greece as the goal of failing this left-wing governance, not only at the economic level, but also through its moral and social defeat. There are many ways in which this is being attempted. In Parliament, however, level two are tested: The first way is to deny her the possibility of effective legislation, since it is under the supervision of creditors, so that every law is finally undergoing complex negotiation with the result of delays, inappropriate and contradictory compromises. The second way is that when it attempts to legislate - as in this case, but also in other legislation - domestic democrats demolishing and demolishing the attempted work with different but converging shades. The well-known scenario includes high tone crescendo, precipitation, aggression or perversion of reality, cries for clipping, regression in the past, failures, photographic devices, etc. or personal shots for "false cacedars", "unknown and unfamiliar by their mother", "accidentally persecuted", "fals" etc. They dare to govern, legislate or even speak. Because, according to their own perception, the "fellows" must definitely leave because they harm the city, which owns them proprietaryly and exclusively. In this climate, therefore, the Government and the Parliamentary majority insist that they legislate on research and, more extensively, on education at this stage, after the first days of governance, high objectives were set in this direction with the establishment of a special research portfolio at the Ministry of Education. And about a year later, in the form of this bill, the first sample of work is presented, despite the unfavourable environment and aspiring pressures. So the draft law under discussion - and I shall mention one thing only - contains a number of provisions which are corrective interventions in the previous law - a law which has been passed by the coexistence of the New Democracy - PASOK - as well as arrangements for the immediate response to the implementation of monumental policies that have caused serious problems in the country's research web and in the human resources involved, leading to a large number of young and skilled scientists in forced immigration. More specifically, the previous law provided for the withdrawal of the State and placed the research process on the companies and lending, while the public nature of the research bodies is now restored and the state's responsibilities are clarified in support of the investigation. The aim is to ensure the independence of research centres while ensuring state supervision. The previous law deregulation the employment status of researchers, and now restores the permanentity of first and second grade researchers and corrects legal ambiguities in terms of researchers' work. All staff categories of research centres, more than the research centres, are given a fee for additional work. The previous law raised ambiguities and institutional gaps in pre-existing malfunctions in the management model of the research centres, but in this draft law measures are being taken to control the arbitrary nature of the management bodies, since research staff are involved in the director’s election. The evaluation and selection of directors shall take into account not only the research staff but also other staff. For the first time, the public assessment of the directors of research centres and institutes is being established, scientific boards of institutes are being upgraded in the direction of their democratic legitimacy, and regional research councils are being upgraded to prevent the reproduction of client networks. The National Research, Technological Development and Innovation Council shall be renamed and reformed with a view to transparency, and the existing ESRB shall be abolished and transitional until the new one requires a time-consuming process has been established. Therefore, this draft law aims to amend most of the previous law, which, with the agreement of the research community, had not been applied to the substance until now and to create by the promoted transitional arrangements - under conditions of course continuous dialogue with the academic and research community - the conditions for the adoption of a new visionary law on research, innovation and technological development leading to research schemes promoting quality, innovation and equality, but also internal democracy, linking research with the country's productive reconstruction and restraining the continuous leakage of new scientists abroad. So, in spite of the hard reaction, we intend to move in this direction, since the areas of reforms in public administration, health, education and research are and remain the privileged area of the Left, where it will be tested if it will ultimately succeed in maintaining its social character in conditions of global prevalence of the aggressive financial neoliberal capitalist model. But even if we do not succeed, as we promised, I think it is worth the joint effort of many people represented and in this bill, but also in others that have been voted, since as the poet George Pavlopoulos says "in the future, there will be little sand left with our own touch and the wind blowing... will take him here and there and it will always take him." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u187	Thank you to Mrs. Jufi and to respect her time. Mr Vorides has the floor, who is called upon to do the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that there are profound differences of opinion, which one can understand from the way Mr Friends interpreted the position of the President of the New Democracy. Let's see what it says. It says that we in the New Democracy consider students to be customers. Not only the students, but also the patients and all the taxpayers. We consider all citizens to be customers. Do you know in what sense? In the sense that the taxpayer is claiming compensation for what he gives the Greek public. In that sense!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u189	It's good, though!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u190	Of course it's good. Look out! It was never disputed that it should be provided. What is questioned is the quality of what is provided, but at the same time also the claim of the one who is taxed to take a corresponding product for what is taxed, namely its money. This is a foreign concept on the left, on its authoritarianism and on the authority of the state, is a foreign concept of this equality towards the citizen and the state, and that is what is disturbing. That's where we understood you. But not to distort the real meaning of what we understand. I have also heard this, Mr Ministers, and I would suggest that you sit down and talk, it will be theoretical enough, but we must resolve this, because on the one hand we have the position of the former Minister against excellence and on the other hand, if I have listened well today, the Minister spoke in favour of excellence. Well, let's take care of this, so we can have a little bit of a field in which we can all get together. Yes or no? We are, of course, in favour of excellence. But, having said what you have said, you have to explain to me what it is that makes you the one word that exists and has reference to excellence in the original text of the law you to amend it by these provisions and remove it? You know you've done this? Let me find this out for you. Here, then, in a series of speeches you have made, Minister, let me go on and on about the issue of entrepreneurship, because at least you spoke of the need to link research to healthy - as you said - entrepreneurship. The majority rapporteur expressed a reservation, but not overall, on the need for a new relationship with entrepreneurship. However, the word "enterprise" was in both of you. That's very positive. So I have questions. Why in Article 4(k), when you make an amendment, are you interfering with the article, keeping it? Just as it had in the original law, he said: "The formulation of conditions and incentives for the development of cooperation between research organisations, technological bodies and businesses and other bodies" and had a phrase next to it which was removed, that is the amendment you make, "and the strengthening of innovative entrepreneurship". Remove this. Why, since you have no problem with innovation and entrepreneurship, the great correction you are making to eliminate the vulnerabilities of your research and pathologies is to remove the word ‘business’? By the way, you are doing the same in Article 8, which amends Article 10, point 1 in the second paragraph. Also, in paragraph (e) of the same article, listen to what the original text says in point (e): "To make full use of the research potential of the regions and to strengthen refreshing or emerging excellence" this is the part you remove. This is the intervention you make, the whole other article remains the same, but you remove the words 'business' and 'excellence'. I, therefore, want to believe you, and I do not want you to tell me any more in your introduction and others to print in the law, I want a simple explanation why you have removed the word 'business' and why you have removed the word 'excellence' from these two paragraphs. Because here, on the one hand, we can't be like this on the other. Here, the consistent left, I imagine, have a very clear place, they don't like entrepreneurship or excellence either. Yeah? You don't?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u191	We like it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u192	You like it. Well, if you like it, you should come and ask your ministers for an explanation because they make amendments to articles that remove these. The next question and I claim, despite what you say, that this is counter-reformation - I do not represent the expert on research, I am ignorant, I do not know this - but as one who makes up the legislature, I read the speeches you make in order to resolve the major issues of research. I'm trying to figure out what is all that you're correcting, since you're maintaining the basic structure. I note the following changes you are making: in Article 10, with which you are substantially changing Articles 11 and 12 of the Act. 4310/2014, you are changing the number of members of the Council and while it was fifteen, now you are making it seventeen. It's shocking! I think the system will be completely rescheduled because we will have two more members. [[This is where the President-in-Office is occupied by the First Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis.]] Of these, in the old system, nine were from the EDFs, in the new one is eleven. Yes, sir. Now, listen to the terrible innovative change, to see what you are doing, because you are sad when we tell you that you are making a party state, that you are making an authoritarian state and that you are making a ruffle and that this is really nothing but a rousphetological mechanism. What did the old article say that you're changing? He said that at the invitation of the Minister, the six-member committee is appointed, and the six-member committee is chosen, from which the larger body will emerge. What are you changing now? Listen, if you'd like, I have the provisions to read them in comparison. What is changing is that, instead of being publicly invited, there is a Minister's decision. Does that, in your opinion, contribute to the expropriation? Does it contribute to transparency? Does it contribute to integrity? Does it contribute to everything you come in suggestion and then you legislate another completely differently? You complain about the question of our criticism of the early end of the ERC. Listen to something, which may also be of legal interest to you to know what will happen to you: It has been thought here that, when one intervenes in terms of terms of law, this legislative intervention actually violates the scope of the term of office and - I say it in quotes - it is illegal. It's illegal, because you're coming and limiting what's set. In other words, you are taking part in a term of law. You can't do that. I also call on you to see what you are doing, Minister, I cannot say it, not to say what I have said to you, now I can just invoke the scientific report of this House. Did you read it? Have you read what it says about the arrangements you make in Article 26(4), (7) and (8)? Where are you actually coming into pending cases and intervening and introducing amortisations of claims arising from the existing arrangements? And the House is telling you that all the relevant legislations are retroactively lawful and that this practice is obviously not in line with the constitutional principles mentioned above. That is what the Scientific Committee of the Parliament says. You come and do retrospective settlements of acts of rectoral authorities or of senatorial authorities or such authorities and do so retrospectively. This cannot be done because there may be pending judicial cases to which the legislature is intervening. Do you understand that they contribute to what is the new research model? Mr. Philly, let's get this over with with the last one...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u193	Finish it, please. You've exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u194	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u195	He's been talking ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u196	You're right, but I thought... That's for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u197	Mr. Papadopoulos, please. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u198	Mr. Philie, listen. You're removing a criminal provision. This criminal provision had a feasibility. What did it have to do with it? He had to bring to practice a major moral decency, that is to say in a criminal act, the occupations of schools, regardless of who did them. So what am I supposed to do here? The abolition of this criminal provision actually says what? That for you the occupation of schools is not a major act of moral decency. Understood. The Prime Minister in this euphoria sport was intrigued. We understand that you cannot do anything different. You are consistent with the practices you have followed all this time, but not to present it to us as the release of the students. It is depopulation of specific practices completely condemned by the entire Greek society. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u199	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u200	Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u201	This thing can't be done!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u202	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u203	Mr. Voridis, you've tried but you've been self-sufficient with the phrase of your Chief for students.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u204	And we've asked for the floor, but you're not giving it to us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u205	Please, Mrs. Anthony! The Minister's talking. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u206	Mr Voridis, listen to something: they are not customers or in the sense of the reward you say. Not a single euro may have given a man, a citizen, but he has the right to education, health and social security. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The other conception is market perception of rights, whoever has, there is a reward. It is therefore clear that discrimination, ideological, social, neo-liberalism and a democratic concept and a social state are clear. Unfortunately, this concept of customers is a deceased perception of the New Democracy, because in 1974 and 1977 with Constantine Karamanlis, some people who said like what you say today, accused Karamanlis of socialism. The New Democracy today follows another course, a course, a turn to neoliberalism, a market perception far from social perception of social radicalism, social liberalism, extreme neoliberal perception. Secondly, the issue of excellence. Listen, we want all schools to be perfect. We do not want elite schools and that is why our efforts with the new type of full-day primary school are all children having equal educational opportunities and a distinction. Thirdly, the criminalisation of conquests. Don't insist. It is clear that the criminalisation of conquests was about students. They were sent to the courts and not some outsiders. Criminal law exists and meets the needs of this criminal hell you mentioned. The mobilisation of teenagers with problems - we have all been teenagers, and you, Mr. Vorides, have not...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u207	Even me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u208	...they're not acts of moral decency. Look out! Adolescent mobilisation is not acts by definition with socio-political decency. It is a school of democracy that mobilisation is done, as long as it is done with the rules laid down in the school, and we are talking about it. The opposition within the school to be resolved democratically and not in the way you think. One last thing. It remains the order that what lessons are lost with the occupations will take place at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u209	Please, just be quiet. Please, Mr. Amyras and Mrs. Drichelli! Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u210	Whoever takes the occupancy says, the lessons will be continued and made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u211	If they take two months, what about teenagers? Are you going to answer us? You're not answering us. What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u212	With your own mind, people will be occupied a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u213	Thank you. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Fotini Vakis, has the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, we'll have a little quiet in the Chamber. Thank you. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I would also like to inform you that the order to be taken by colleagues is as follows: Parliamentary Representative, two speakers, again, and Parliamentary Representative. Mr. Amyras, I'll brief you on the rest. Mr. Vaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u214	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a wisdom principle or a visit of names. We've heard a lot about students, about excellence. So let me also express my opinion on the spirit of the law to be passed. There's an ideoleptic obsession. This ideological obsession with privatization, which degenerates public goods into marketable goods and citizens to consumers, customers of services, has unfortunately not left the area of education and research intact. In recent years we have witnessed a violent mutation of universities and research institutes in hybrids of neoliberal authoritarianism. In recent years we have gone, as many as we have taught in universities, silently and quietly on the glorious path of 'excellence' - within too many introductory forms - without writings, without electrics, without heating, literally and in the dark, with disadvantage courses due to a lack of teaching and research staff, with members of ICPs to unwritten programmes, most of which have been a tactical research process and have been valued not only on the basis of their research results but on the basis of - I fear - their operational process. The good researcher, therefore, was equitable with the man who brings money to the foundation, while the fate of chosen young scientists became either their economic and mental collapse, whether migration or permanent anointedness - slap in dignity, or market conditions which constitute a one-way human-familiar, wandering and precarious path. If the term 'humanist crisis' refers to a life that does not live, the Brain Drain - to say English - became another dear term that created the research and academic landscape in the mist. If something is an institutional aspect, then the current government has created a special portfolio for both solidarity and the fight against the humanitarian crisis for both the refugees and, of course, for research. And I come to the object. This draft law carries out a double objective. On the one hand, it attempts to stop the bleeding of new scientists abroad and cure injustices introduced by previous law, n.4310, ensuring the sustainability of research through regular funding, so that the research can indeed become a lever for the country's development and productive reconstruction. In this sense, this draft law serves research as a relevant good against Aristotle, namely a good that is not a purpose in itself, but a means of fulfilling other purposes of no minor importance. However, given that politics is carried out on the basis of principles and values, and it is not an evaluatively neutral occupation of technocrats - because if that were the case, we would simply and would not have discussed it - and since, apart from budgetary figures and primary surpluses, there are also a number of worthwhile surpluses, and these constitute - if you like - the moral advantage of the Left, for us, the educational and academic community does not provide a service. For us students and students are not customers. I would like to make this clear: research is neither market-based nor a state-owned. The investigation is neither a hostage of the State nor a non-unionable market that equates it to the "usable" or a falsified entrepreneurship of the predator. For this reason, was it true - one example - that the previous law enables research centres to fund directly with a simple decision of the board of high-risk companies or receive loans from banks? Is it right for the public funding of research centres to be linked to the results of their evaluation - attention - to be given to an evaluation that acted as a tampering break that overlaps over the heads of research centres and sometimes also to a means of punishment and a pretext of redundancies? What kind of human being was the previous law born when basically the permanentity of the first and second grades was lifted? The permanentity of researchers in the I and II grades is restored by the law which does not prosecute, protect, avenge and punish researchers while safeguarding public character, accountability and transparency in research through the process of evaluating and electing both the directors of the research centres, the institutes and the scientific councils. For the first time, the opinion of research staff and other staff is taken into account for the selection of directors. For the first time, the public assessment of the directors of the research centres and the directors of the institutes has been established, not only at the end of their term of office but also at the middle of their term of office. For the first time, the members of the scientific councils to be consulted on research policy will be elected by the plenary session of researchers of all levels. Ladies and gentlemen, research and precariousness, research into darkness, research and anthropophagia, I am sorry but it is a contradiction in terms. Publicity, accountability and transparency are components of democracy. And research, education in general, or it will be democratic, or there will be no. And because they heard a lot about excellence, when you slammed the banner of excellence, devouring SYRIZA's Balta to education, your own balletah was destroying democracy in research and education. Excellency as a high scientific quality is synonymous, is not contrary to democracy. And the Left, which recently resurrected from naphthalene the loved ones to your well-known medium bands of flammations that listen to the name of "the theory of the two ends", equilibriumed with barbers, with kalashnikovs, with lawlessness, with violence, this Left has in its structure and the struggles for a democratic education. And I'm coming to the dismissal of prefectures. The struggle, the non-violent collective expression of protest for a better school, a better university, a better tomorrow, cannot be a criminal offense. It's unthinkable to drag minor children, students to prosecutors. The social struggles for a democratic school are not a terrorist act unless for you - because we recently heard the Chief of Police Response then in the security debate - the left you identify it in your mind with the Ruvikon. We passed Ruvikon, but another Ruvikon, with a view to establishing a democratic education with democratic values and morality. I would like to close, because a lot has been said about customers, about the private financial criteria, about the service we have to provide to customers - citizens and so on, at the end of a letter sent by a professor to the chairman of the board of an American university, when the latter decided to abolish humanitarian studies in America because they were not profitable, they did not attract many customers, so they did not need to. It is therefore invoked by the Faust of Gaete and presides its letter "A deal with the Devil for Education". So he writes, and so he ends the letter: "Gatee believed that man would have no profit if he sells his soul, even for all the riches in the world. This is the whole world, Mr Phillip, and not a balanced budget. Although, to be fair, you have not sold your soul, only the soul of your founding. Not so much appreciation, Gegory Petsko.’ Professor Petsko, of course, is not one of the picturesque here native, corrupt, lazy academics, who need to come to the external evaluators to judge them. He's a distinguished professor of biochemistry at the University of Bradice, America. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u215	Thank you to Mrs Vakis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, Member of the New Democracy, then Mr Amyras, Parliamentary Representative from Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Education's bill really stands on the grounds of 'comparing' ideologically. This is the first report, the conclusion of this debate. But the New Democracy also seems to have been a forerunner once again. I am pleased that the Minister is constantly referring to Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis and I am pleased that the tenth meeting, Minister, was an event for the country. So no doubt it was a political fact where ideas, suggestions and you can see them. You've seen them. I know very well that you were there. We welcomed your presence. So there, Minister, we have tabled the agreement on the truthfulness of the five alphas, which we are discussing here today, ideologically, on the development of our bill, on merit, on excellence, but, above all, on credibility. That's why we'll be judged. At the same time, however, with the truth agreement, all five alphas have submitted to open public consultation twenty-five, first of all, proposals, which highlight the new Republic as a protagonist of the development of a society that is lagging behind and needs a new starting point. In the context of this proposal, therefore, is also the introduction of entrepreneurship into schools. I am presenting to the Minutes for future researchers, in particular, to see that this dimension, the eighteenth proposal of the New Democracy, stands on the way to strengthen the position of 'clients' by Mr Mitsotakis. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, Minister, the New Democracy does not have a market perception of education, nor does it have a fragmentary perception of excellence. Let's make this clear once and for all. I know that this bill is an opportunity for more general debate and it is not enough for every few minutes of time for each of us speakers to resolve all the aspects they have put forward here, excellent speakers and speakers. But I am glad that the Minister did not give anyone the opportunity in the past time to refer to him personally. Today, however, either with his public interviews in the media or from the Step by the House with his position, he gave an opportunity and let me start with his position. Mr. Minister ended up with Alexis Diaras. In other words, it has approached the patches of the history of education. I'm glad, Minister. You know that to see the future, we need to read the history of education well. Except that Alexis, when he was talking about Delmuzo, about the Frenchman, about all these enlightened Greeks, always had the social context and the political context, and that's where Diaras says that every time the researcher should be able to see what the social-political framework is to be reversed, he should be able to design. Today, then, we are talking about a "big" educational reform. Once again, SYRIZA in the field of education says that it consolidates democracy and the Minister urged us to say that a broad social consensus and political convergence is needed. Good. We agree on that. But if there is to be convergence, Minister, we must have transparency and clear and clear conditions for the national dialogue on education. What kind of national dialogue on education can be conducted when the government finds itself and creates fait accomplis? When important reforms are cancelled? Like n.4310? SYRIZA is establishing a 'climatic democracy', only that creates waves of insecurity. The previous Minister of Education, Mr Baltas, in relation to the change in the method of selecting training staff, led the Council of State to judge this issue as unconstitutional when it violates the principles of equality, dignity and, of course, the principles of excellence. I would like to urge you, Minister, to visit the schools. Is there peace because of this process of choice? I guess not. So I don't know what democracy we're talking about. Mr Minister, despite the time being, let this debate be the starting point for a more profound debate both in tomorrow's debate and in the national debate, as you call on him to continue. You referred to Law 1566/1985 to give the parable and the proportion of pupils 1/25. This law, ladies and gentlemen, is 1985. How many years ago, Mr. President? More than thirty years. So it was not a priority of the new government, which claims to need change everywhere? Why would the Minister refer to Law 1566/1985 and speak of the aims of education and the contents of learning, that is to say school books. He said school books aren't right and the MPs decided. And who are the Members who decide, Minister, whether school books are good or bad? Is there a Institute for Educational Policy, which has made you such a suggestion? And if you want to refer to Law 1566/1985, why are you not referring, Minister, to the instigation of the multi-purpose law? Why don't you give the teacher a choice for a multiple handbook? You spoke of evaluation methods too. It was an excellent approach. In addition to the history of education, the Minister also analysed the teaching methodology. Very good. Grouping together teaching is indeed an excellent approach to teaching. But she's not unique. It is not that stimulus that we need to establish as a presumption, that the whole day's school needs to be implemented, so it must be done all day as you have said. Finally, you said about the qualitative evaluation of teachers. Very good. Have you considered, Minister, and the leadership of the Ministry of Education, the relevant recommendations of the previous leadership of the Institute for Education Policy? We all remember, ladies and gentlemen, what happened in the debate on evaluation at various times in the country. You remember what was happening in Metropolitan, when the Minister of Education was Mr. Soufflias and when the Minister of Education was Mr. Papandreou. We need to leave the teacher a little aside, Minister, and we need to talk first about assessing the educational project and then about evaluating the teacher. I'm closing this report because you both talked about teachers and their placement. Teachers aren't experts, he says, in the entire day's school. All this, Minister, do you know why you said it? In order to justify your inability to appoint and implement your commitments that there will be twenty thousand teachers and special treatment as well, while you say that they are literally hostage because of the assistants. You mentioned earlier in your prototype that substitutes are essential to education. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I cannot go on and know that my time is over, Mr President. I could not say - and I did so consciously - in my written report on the draft law on education which you are bringing today, on research and technology. But I just want to say that this bill, which is a bill, as the Minister said, is an effort for research centres, not research. So when we decide to bring together the research bill as a whole, there we should be placed, but since you have the sensitivity of having an open consultation, inclusive consultation and talking about the individual issues of research as well. I would just like to make three points, if I may, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u217	Very soon, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u218	Yes, Mr. President. We aimed to unify the research area in the country. N.4310 was a good law. We had set the National Strategic Plan for Research as a priority to be passed by the House. Why? Because it was a similar perception prevailing in Europe and in the international field of research. Now what are you doing? You decide to transfer this strategic project to the exclusive competence of the Minister of Education. We, too, had tabled the coordinating body so that we could horizontally coordinate the research, because it is not the sole privilege of the Ministry of Education alone, it is a whole of other ministries.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u219	Please complete your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u220	This is abrogated, too. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that the abolition of basic provisions of Law 4130 is not a process that brings the country before research and technology. I think you should think again soon, Minister, to bring together the arrangements for the research project you have as a government and there to heal the bad texts you are tabling in this House today. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr Consola, Member of the New Democracy. Before giving the floor to Mr Amyras, the Deputy Minister, Mr Fotakis, has a legislative improvement to do. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u222	I would like to table some legislative improvements, some of which clarify the ERC's responsibilities in research centres. The differences existing from previous law are now very clear. I'll testify. As far as what has been said about excellence, entrepreneurship and innovation is concerned, they will receive an answer tomorrow. I think we will have a chance tomorrow to answer. Because of the late hour now that's not possible. But, indeed, I do not think it is the right place to talk about these issues, when this law clearly goes through this pursuit of excellence, the pursuit of scientific quality, which, as I mentioned in my prototype, must be done without a discount. It was perfectly clear and the attempt to identify our space with the slightest effort, with modestness, I would say that it is in vain. But we will say a lot more tomorrow that Mr. Dendias and Mr. Vorides will be here. We're going to do this with great pleasure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u223	Thank you very much, Minister. The Parliamentary Representative of the River Mr George Amyras has the floor. Here, Mr Amyras, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u224	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a very deplorable anniversary. Six years ago, next door, in the four hundred metres from plenary, in Stage 23, in MARFIN four people died of blind hatred, fanaticism, of the rotten terrorism that is constantly afflicting this country and its society. On Friday, Julia, Emmenis Tsakalis, Angeliki Papathanasopoulou - pregnant - and her unborn child were victims of fanaticism and intolerance. And I would like to say that our democracy remains incomprehensible as long as the murderers of the four people of MARFIN are not brought before justice, as long as the murderers of the two Chrysogyanites, Giorgos Fountoulis and Manolis Kunevas are not brought before justice, as long as the murderers of Socrates Giolia, the journalist, are not led to justice, as long as the perpetrators of the attack against Constantina Kuneva, are not led to justice. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have another anniversary. Sixty-seven years ago, on 5 May 1949, the Council of Europe was founded with the London Agreement. We should not confuse the Council of Europe with the European Union. It is the oldest organisation that deepens European integration. And while the rest of the Europeans have been dealing with the problems and challenges that this route has been facing us since 1949, we in Greece, Greece, our country has been constantly moving away from Europe lately. Diplomatically removed, removed in the refugee field, removed into the economy. It seems the country is isolated at all levels. And that is what you, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, are responsible for! Are we in Schengen or aren't we? At the same time, the Turks have succeeded and taken the visa, the abolition of visas since June, not even since October, as the Commission proposed at the beginning, which is now proposing even shorter deadlines. And as if not all of this were enough, the government is throwing us off the fourth memorandum. You have well not implemented the reforms of the third memorandum that you voted on, the third memorandum you signed, the third memorandum that you brought us, after the harsh and proudly supposed negotiation, and here we are leading again to the malicious work of the summer of 2015. There, then, we said that Mr. Tsipras will have learned his lesson after the suffering of the country from the "Varoufakia" we lived. But he didn't take his lesson. Delays and catastrophe in all the reforms that need to be made and political negotiation, which was supposed to bring us something better. Mr. Tsakalotos went to Washington with measures, with taxes, with a burden on the Greeks EUR 5.5 billion and returned with a further package of 3.6 billion. That's the situation. And by Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos you will have to look for the responsibilities for the fourth memorandum, which you will be happy to vote on, as it seems, the Members of SYRIZA and ANELs! You brought us into the weekend to vote for insurance - tax. Two footnotes here: First of all, does it have to be voted before the Eurogroup of Monday, 9 May? He's not in the prerequisites. The decisive Eurogroup will take place on the 24th of the month. Why are you bringing in this weekend, without knowing why I will tell you, are you strengthening, helping you, and the journalists' strike, announced a few hours ago, by Monday? Why, while waiting five months to discuss the insurance, do you bring it back under the procedures again'spray, wipe, finish' within a weekend? Do you want to send a message out, that you keep the declared one? Is that what's going on? Tell us. But there are some explanations about all this, that no one anymore trusts you and believes you either inside or abroad. You have not implemented the memorandum you signed, you have not made serious reforms. That inertia costs money. It costs citizens financial burdens, costs entrepreneurship, costs lost jobs, costs a growing migration of our scientific potential abroad. This is the price of your government's low performance and you cannot cover your responsibilities, constantly creating fictitious, fantasy enemies and discovering conspiracy theories. You should already have alarmed the country. Instead of mobilising everyone for the Brussels estimate, however, that in 2017 unemployment will be much higher than the European Commission's own figures and forecasts, instead of mobilising you for the fact that Greece is the only country in the European Union, ladies and gentlemen, which in 2016 will have a recession - only we have a recession - you triumph and we hear the Government representative say that the Commission's forecasts show that in the end it will not be as bad as we imagined it would be. You don't have the measure. You've lost the measure. At the same time, you are bringing us measures, without measure, of course, and with countless extensions. From the extension to the extension. The review was prolonged, which you were telling us before last September and August that you would close it in October. We arrived in May with the well-known scenario now of the political negotiation. And we know that every time the Prime Minister goes for political negotiation, he turns around with a backpack, even worse than taxes, measures and weights. Expansion to prolongation, then. We have the anxiety about the forthcoming payments that the country should make in June and July. We have the anxiety about when this resurrection of the economy will come because it did not come on Easter day, as the Prime Minister predicted. At the same time - to get into the draft law - I would say that your logic, as I have heard your speeches on education issues, is 'excellent - modest, you have noted two'. You don't want excellence, no matter what you say. You want the modesty to feel safe. And I inform you, ladies and gentlemen, especially you of SYRIZA, that in 2015 and 2016 were the first two years to which you did not give the left government the praise of excellence to the masters of university schools. It was 1,500 euros for every perfect one. Last year and this year you didn't give it. This money was disbursed and given as a small aid allowance to the excellent students of all classes, all schools, all sections of universities as a sign of a reward for their heat to evolve. That money's gone. I contacted the State Scholarship Foundation to find out why last year in 2015 and this year in 2016 no money was given. They told me the very simple thing, we don't have any money. We're waiting for a NSA to get that money.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u225	It's a matter of poverty, not of dignity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u226	It's a question of poverty, but at the same time you're hiring, Mr. Minister, poster from here and there. Cut the poster, cut the Karanis at Maximos and of course you will find the 1,500 euros to give them to the aristocrats.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u227	I repeat, it is not a question of lack of dignity, it is a question of lack of money.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u228	Don't interrupt me, Minister. Let me finish. I would like to say one more thing to you, because I have heard the debate on the occupations. It's very simple. Wean inside you what weight it is: a) The desire of some students, whatever they are, for occupation, to close the school and b) the desire of a student or teacher to enter school and learn. What is a stronger right to your understanding? The right of the person who closes the school or the right of the person who wants to go to school? My answer, too, is, of course, the right of the person who wants to be educated is superior to the right of the person who wants to close the school. Schools should be like hospitals, accessible to everyone, open to everyone without conditions. Also, I will now come to some of the elements of the draft law. I don't have much time, I'll be very brief. Cut the second-hour music for students in the first and second grades. Remove the class of theatrical education in the V' and F' Elementary. You also reduce computer times and teaching hours of foreign languages. Is it possible in Greece of 2016, which is struggling to come out, to go to the clearing, to reduce two basic supplies that are now bread for all schools in the world: information technology and foreign languages? That's why I'm telling you you're modest and not excellence. On the question of full-day and kindergartens, I heard on TV yesterday Mrs Vaso Zarkinou, who is a member of the kindergarten coordinator. He gave some evidence. I want to keep them in mind. As you know, the scale changes to characterize a school as twofold or one-stop shop. Instead of having seven toddlers, he should have fourteen toddlers. So out of a thousand four hundred sixty-sixteen two-six pre-school kindergartens, we're going to seven hundred forty-four singles. I understand, Minister, that there must be economies of scale. That's right. In the Ecclesiachori of Ioannina, for example, where the municipality - in next to the village - is home to three children. They leave the next few villages and go to this kindergarten. What about this kindergarten? They're going to leave 20 miles below.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u229	There will be. Read the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u230	Good. I'm asking you to give us some clarification. By the way, I would like you to tell us about school meals. It was one of your bi-Symbol election slogans. My information tells me that school meals are only given to twenty to thirty schools. I'm asking if you're going to extend it to school in the whole country since the new school year. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, I'm ending. I would like to highlight two articles, Articles 26 and 28 on the administrative and operational issues of universities. Here we see that the scientific service is talking about not harmonising these articles with constitutional principles. I would like you to make a comment on this. Furthermore, with regard to Article 30(7), which concerns nominal student transfers, the report clearly states that the proposed provision does not lay down a personal and abstract rule of law, but constitutes an individual regulation derogating from Articles 4 and 20 of the Constitution. We want an answer for that too. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we have reservations about what attitude we will take, whether or not we vote. We expect some clarification mainly on the second and third part of the draft law and then we will tell you whether you have our vote or not. We believe that a number of articles in the first part on research are positive, but please clarify these on the so-called photographic amendments to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u231	Thank you Mr Amyras, Parliamentary spokesman from the river. Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Minister, I have listened very carefully to you and I will begin with three comments in the preamble. The first observation: I recommend immediately rapid school schedule courses. I read you from your position: "In the city of uniform press today children are commenting on 12.15". Isn't that what you said? Wrong, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u233	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u234	You said this before and look into it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u235	Classics end from 12.15 ́ and ESA at 14.00 ́.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u236	Well done, Minister! But don't say it again, because I injected it. They heard it, and all the teachers, and they're just mitigating.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u237	Be serious, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u238	I'll tell you, Minister, who needs to be serious. I'll tell you who needs to be serious!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u239	Today two-thirds of the schools...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u240	Please, Minister, listen to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u241	Minister, do not interrupt the speaker. Then you'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u242	It is not possible for the Minister of Education not to know when the primary schools end, Minister. It's unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u243	You're ridiculous!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u244	To get it back, Mr President, and to get out of the Minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u245	Minister, I'm returning to you. I'm returning to you, because you're gonna have to find out that at 12:30 a.m. school stops first grade. Then the other classes, Minister, are at 13.20 ́. Then, Minister, V and F grades are at 13:45. If you haven't learned so far, I understand why everything you do is done. Let's go down. As far as the whole day is concerned, I will not go into the conflict you said before, but I want you to understand something and tell the world. Tell the world, Minister, "I don't have any teachers. I don't have any of the NSAs. I've got 1/6 of last year's NSRF. So I don't have school teachers. And what I'm doing is abolishing EPAs, which ended at 14.00, I don't have teachers and I have all schools running until 13.15.” That's what you have to tell the world, Minister. Thirdly, you have spoken many times about the recruitments you are going to make. You have to tell the truth to those who are waiting, to the alternates, that they will not, Minister, this year. And that should be understood by the people who still have expectations. Why, you know what? When they heard you talking before, they simply wondered what world you were living in. In which world do you live, when you're really wrong, even on the primary school schedule. I wish you, then, to collect the school, to make this single type you want for the full day by 13.15 ́, but see what the needs of the schools are. A proposal, Minister, for the pan-Hellenic examinations: Whoever is right - and we know who is right - will see it in ten days, but evil has happened. And you know why it happened, Minister? Because no one has played and has dispersed the process of pan-Hellenic tests at no cost. And that costs you do not take as a political cost, Minister. You take it as a cost of insecurity for hundreds of thousands of families who have their children in the pan-Hellenic exams. So, as you mention it, yes, let's get serious. Let's go to the rest. I think that you have not even avoided the temptation to intervene in the legislative framework of the EITs this time. So I'm going to tell you that you're doing good speeches too. Good speeches, as long as you hear it, and everyone else who will vote for them, I mean by the Communism. Do you know why? We are starting with Article 24, Minister. In Article 24 with the provisions, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, the business university is simply set up and you will vote for this - and good for you! - the business research centre and you'll vote for it. You are completely introducing economic liberalism into research centres. And you know why? Because, with the system of special accounts in GDR and research centres, you are giving them great business flexibility. This first time, this flexibility makes the public accounting commitments imminent. And good for you! The Socialist Group has already said so before. So in the face of the complete liberalisation of the private financial criteria in the functioning of the specific accounts, what has been done before is simply, if you like, details. What is this flexibility? In the exception now from the public accountancy - so that colleagues who are not aware of the matter - and the possibility of setting up a ministerial decision of specific accounts in all research centres. And I'm telling you, go ahead, just as long as you vote for it. Do you know why? Because, as it says, programmes and projects from European resources and private resources are now to be financed at all research centres and at all universities. European and private research programmes, of course, which many of you, but not those who ultimately inspired these provisions, until yesterday were rejected as the works of the market demon, which would subjugate the universities. So today, let us not pass these provisions with the guilty silence of the virgins. Do what you were forced to do in and out of SYRIZA. I'm clear about that. Another provision, which is very important, is the possibility that special accounts will now be able to carry out cleaning, storage, maintenance, repair and payment of services of general interest. Bravo! It should have just been known to those of SYRIZA and SYRIZA who took up occupations to claim the permanentisation of the contractors - all contractors - and now you hand over these services to your private services. Well done for you, because this has had to be done for a long time. Good thing the Left does it for the first time!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u246	In the meantime, they do the opposite.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u247	Mr President, I ask for thirty seconds. You'll answer me, Minister. Even extra cost-efficiency is expected to be paid to the staff involved in profitable research programmes, European and private, of course. So you slowly take the street of popular capitalism. She's fine! There is something else I must tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u248	Soon, please, if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u249	Of course, Mr President. Because this is all done and is well known to everyone - I would remind you that there are also class differences in the university - you impose the obligation to pay the special account for teachers and lecturers of the HEIs at 10% - it was 7%, you did it five minutes ago - on the gross income for those who have other professional activities, doctors, lawyers, engineers. Do you know what you're doing with it? Simply push out of university or out of profession worthy scientists, who just do another job. Because 10% or 7% of GDP means that if they pay their other contributions, they will simply not be able to practice their profession or one or the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u250	They're paid by the university.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u251	It's all right, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u252	You'll answer later, Minister, if you'll be kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u253	So what I'm telling you is this. In the chapter on higher education, I note that what you are doing is actually to abolish the councils. That's what you wanted, isn't it? So you're removing the councils because we know that when they do, their powers go to the Senate. Do you know how councils are unable? With known strangers interfering with their procedures. Finally, I am telling you this and I am really ending this, Mr President. Since you like retrospectiveness, you are depleting your legislative flexibility and Article 28(10), where by a monumental legislative pension the decisions of the EMCDDA Senate, which set another procedure for the selection of members, are retrospectively ratified. In just Greek, ladies and gentlemen - and I am really ending with this - it is worth listening to it, so when the administration of the EMCDDA with a Dean of the current State Secretary for Education had refused to implement the law and those colleagues who were not, with Law 4009, elected it. What did we say today? We said that it well applied him because he applied the previous law and not the one who applied the time when the teachers were elected. Is it the teachers? Oh, no. But what makes me very much impression is that with this provision you tell us that what was done at the time was illegal and that what was done today simply restores to people who are not to blame, legality. I'm closing up with a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u254	But one, please. You've exceeded all the limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u255	These ideas, Minister and Minister, are minority in the university. Whatever you vote for, this guy, he can't have any hooking in the operation of the university. The reform at university will progress and will fortunately proceed without SYRIZA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u256	You were against reform, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u257	Madam Minister, you'll talk later, if you'll be kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u258	I'll listen to you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u259	Please. Before giving the floor to Mr Karathanasopoulos - Mr Karathanasopoulos, in half a minute - then to Mr Gülekas, Mr Theocharopoulos and the Minister of State and continue to inform you where we are. Fifty-six Members have written. As you can see, not everyone can talk today. I therefore propose that we agree to stop at 12 o'clock at midnight, so that we can vote at first. All the rapporteurs, the four ministers, the parliamentary representatives and several Members will have spoken during this time. We shall vote in principle on the bill and we shall stop at that time when we have reached Members' level. This will be between Nos 15 and 17 on the list of Members registered. Tomorrow, after the parliamentary scrutiny, which we estimate will end around 12 noon, I propose that we begin with the rapporteurs and the special speakers on the articles and amendments, and then continue with the list of remaining Members, who will not speak today, who will speak at first and on the articles, and then those Members will also speak on the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u260	Tell us what name we'll get to the directory so we can know who they'll talk to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u261	I told you, number 15 to 17. If we respect our speaking time, we can reach up to number 17. If we don't respect him, we'll get to 15. Depends.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u262	Tomorrow, what time are we gonna finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u263	Tomorrow we'll start at 12:00 and then we'll go long enough until night. Mr. Fortsakis is in number 17 on the list of registered persons to speak, Mr. Jellus is in number 15, Mrs. Genrias is in number 16. Parliamentary representatives, the rapporteurs, as we have said, will speak. I say we first agree. Where we've arrived around 0.30 minutes to stop. So if you agree...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u264	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u265	Listen. You'll tell your opinion. You'll all talk, because we're talking in a process. I told you that a Member, a parliamentary representative, will speak, the Minister will speak and we will have completed a key list. If you agree on this proposal, say so. I do not want us to get to the reduction in speaking time. But we can agree to stop at twelve and a half at night. We have done so for another time, to agree over a certain period of time and to try, with respect for time, to be consistent in this regard. Mrs. Antoniou, would you like to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u266	I would just like to say that, because there have been too many amendments and ministerial and parliamentary amendments, we would like to know - because tomorrow, and in the debate on the articles, we should also place on the amendments - which are accepted by the Minister, so that we can be prepared to talk at least about what the Minister will accept.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u267	Very good. It makes sense to me. If the Minister is ready or for those who are ready to tell us today, he will. Be sure. Mr. Fortsaki, would you like anything else?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u268	Mr President, I would like you to tell me to whom we are going to reach us today, because I am at the limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u269	I can't tell you why it depends on time. I'm telling you on the basis of time, because, if we say we're going to get to that speaker, that can come by 1,00' time, 1.30' time or 2,00' time, and I don't know how many people will be in the Chamber. So does the House agree to proceed as I proposed for 0.30 hours?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u270	The House therefore agreed with the proposal from the Bureau. So we continue immediately with Mr Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece for twelve minutes. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. Today, of course, the government, along with the majority of the Bureau of Parliament, proceeded with a provocative political misery. Throughout the weekend, the bill - plundering for insurance - brings the workers and other populaces who are organizing the struggle against this bill to sleep for the past weekend. But you are deeply mistaken, because your political opportunism, which may not have any limits, is not going to remain unanswered, because it is reassured once again that austerity policy, class policy, anti-Fraud and Anti-Fraud politics are bound to be 'nail-meat' with authoritarianism. What else did you want through this move? You wanted to prevent, prevent, make it difficult to carry out the forty-eight-hour strike already announced by the unions for the days of discussion in the House of Parliament - a looting act. But not only have you avoided these, but the popular reaction, the reaction of the world will be much larger. We say this because the Communist Party of Greece will do everything in its power that this popular reaction and the organization of the people's struggle will not only stand against the bill - a looting of insurance, but stand against, fight against and counter to the core of the current government, which is no other than the core of the policy that the previous governments have implemented. It is in this core that the needs of capital and monopolistic groups are met. It is essentially the maintenance of the power of the bourgeoisie. He is the one who serves, with great consistency. This seems not only to the disgusting and unacceptable methods that you do when the insurance will be discussed, but also to the current bill, which we are discussing. What else can we give as a title, as the content of your strategic choices, to education and research? We would say that you have accepted - and you have fully adapted to this - that education, research and education are subordinate to the needs of monopolistic groups, capital and policies that serve these needs. Indeed, in this name, you are sacrificed for the children of the people's populations the opportunity to have a full education and education provision. You remind yourself of the results of research and technology that would go to satisfying the people's needs, to the altar of the profitability of capital. It is precisely this bill that does nothing but adapt to the essence - both primary and secondary education and research - to the requirements arising from the third memorandum and previous memorandums, which we must remember that the SYRIZA - ANEL parties, together with New Democracy and Potami, voted in August 2015. Now look, Minister. We're in 2016. How did the SYRIZA rapporteur start his speech? He started it by expressing his agony and that you will do your best to start school year in schools and schools. But, can there be this anguish in 2016? Tell me we're nervous about the manned mission we're sending from Greece to space, to figure it out, because it's gonna be the first time. But should we be anxious about the start of the school year for 2016? So imagine in what exact state the educational system as a whole is. And that is precisely the result of the policies that have been implemented by the previous governments, but you too are very faithfully implemented. Why? You are adjusting the costs of education to the maximum extent of budgetary consolidation. You said it yourself, Minister! You have asked for twenty thousand appointments and your troika partners have said no, because it is confronting, it says, in the rule on appointments to the public, something that the previous governments have accepted, but also you, in the proposals you have made. So here is the situation where education has been brought about and on your own responsibility, since of course you have accepted this policy. And this report by SYRIZA's rapporteur is not random. And it is not by chance that he is given the margin in terms of decisions taken by the Ministry. The result of these decisions on the substance is to drive thousands of children out of the entire school. Because, Minister, the decision on a so-called single-day municipal school is unacceptable, in the view of the JRC, because, in substance, through this process you want to do, you are seeking to fill thousands of gaps through the reduction of the hours of teaching and to turn to the measures and demands of the memoranda the right of thousands of families to take their children to the whole of the day. Of course, the entire schools do not operate on the substance, as we would like them to function as a Communist Party. Especially the children of unemployed families are being thrown out completely. Also, through this process of saving, reducing teaching hours, you fly on the road to thousands of teachers, especially those who are substitutes, but also others who will no longer need, because these gaps will be covered by the reduction in teaching hours. This is not uniform, Minister. It is united in the deterioration of the education provided and in the greatest obstacles that children of the people's families will face. The children of the people's families have much more problems, precisely because of the economic and professional situation their families experience. Because, in essence, this school, which you are evangelizing, cannot be regarded as a model when, as a whole, the educational process is determined by the sizes imposed on you by the financial consolidation and the golden rule of Euro Plus, i.e. the budgets must be balanced and surplus, in this case, because Greece is under the memorandum and the committee. These budget figures define and what lessons will be taught and what hours will elapse. So the whole situation is shaped. We, of course, as a JRC, never had, as a school model, the EAGFs, which had huge educational problems and which, as a JRC, had brought them up, had denounced them, just as other educational institutions and parents had done. What is the really unified and modern school, in the understanding of the JRC? It is what has been expanded in time, to complete all children within school their educational program. This includes studying, meaning that children will do all the work they have to do in school, including sports activities, as well as learning and certification of a foreign language. And, of course, it includes the parallel provision by the state of free feeding and rest in appropriately shaped areas. And these structures - which will be in schools - will be able to be exploited by youth in its free time for its sporting, cultural and artistic activities. This is the concept of the Communist Party of Greece. Is that what you're doing? Not at all! And, of course, this cannot be done once you have turned education into a merchandise. That is what you are actually doing in research. Mr Fotakis himself, at the beginning of the procedure, what did he say? He said that research is a lever for growth, that the knowledge economy along with tourism, transport, energy - and some other areas he has put it - will be the lever for the development of the Greek economy and that, in essence, companies need to use the results of the research. If, in this logic, which Mr Fotakis has rightly developed, the Minister responsible for research and technology, does not mean that the research will be subject to the needs of business groups - what the European Union is, of course, saying - what else? Why, through this process, the large business groups, the monopolistic groups on the basis of what will they do? They will use the research results for their own purposes. What are their purposes? Competitiveness, the creation of new goods and, at the end, the profitability of the research process, which is not fragmentary and cannot be fragmented, in the interests of their own interests and not in the interests of upgrading and satisfying the interests of the people. And that is why we are seeing - to set an example - the results of the pharmaceutical laboratories end up as a tool for pharmaceutical companies to treasure, excluding widespreadly populist strata from access to the medicine. And any research is carried out on the substance of this matter, which serves these needs of the monopolistic groups. What is not in the interest of monopolistic groups is not to be financed. So we are drying up the research on substance and adapting to what? In a applied research, not new knowledge production, such as to meet the needs of monopolistic groups. Of course, our rapporteur referred very fully to the individual issues which are raised, while maintaining the unacceptable status of researchers themselves and the 'blocks'. Furthermore, you have not even ensured that all those who will end their programmes in September, their future, their tomorrow. In the face of this logic, in which all other parties agree, that research must be an atmospheric engine to shield the competitiveness and profitability of monopolistic groups, that is to say, against the logic that research must be subjected to capital designs, based on the needs of profitability, we propose another thing, Minister. We are proposing the need for research to be subject to the satisfaction of modern and expanded people's needs. And that cannot be done, as long as the economy does, businessmen do, they do monopolies and as long as Greece remains in the European Union. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In this respect, therefore, it is clear, Mr President - and I thank you for the little tolerance of time - that the Communist Party of Greece is voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u272	Thank you Mr. Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece. Mr George Georgios Georgios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. I have sought to speak this evening and I thank colleagues who have accepted some changes in the order of speakers, because tomorrow morning I have to be in Idolated for the events for the Eureka Battle anniversary. The Evzones are two kilometers from Idomeni, which, according to the appropriate Minister, Mr. Mousala, would have come its evacuation, nice and nice, about twenty days ago, based on the programming of the one month that she had given from the Step of the Parliament. I want to believe that the Minister's intentions are indeed good, but at the end the ministers are judged by their effectiveness. And tomorrow I don't know what else I can tell the locals, who really expect to end this suffering they live in, as two small villages, one hundred and twenty inhabitants and the other two hundred fifty, have an informal camp, an anarchist camp of twelve - thirteen thousand people. That's a little parentheses. Minister, I have always believed that the issues of education should not be matters on which to create a confrontation policy. There are many other issues to be dealt with. And I want to believe that most of us believe it and we hope that the issues of education must really happen to a consensus, when it is possible, on the basis of both the political positions of each party and the logic and feasibility of the provisions and, ultimately, the expected result, which must be the upgrading of the educational work in the country. Unfortunately, and with this piece of legislation, there are provisions - I will refer to specific issues - which do not give this room for opposition. An issue which concerns my region and which you have also referred to - of course concerns many regions in Greece - is in relation to kindergartens and the number of fourteen young people per kindergarten, which this bill sets out as an essential prerequisite for a kindergarten. You have tried - and I have really followed your position carefully - to go beyond this, with the justification that you do not actually come to overthrow data and to close kindergartens, because, moreover, the seven kindergartens as a minimum number for the operation of kindergartens are five. Yes, Minister, but there are specific conditions laid down in Article 35, in relation to the border, in relation to the difficulty of access, as to how remote it is from an area or not, but which are not specified in such a way that it can be understood by the citizens, so that they do not feel this insecurity that parents are currently feeling. Of the fifty - year - old kindergarten currently operating in Kilkis Prefecture, twenty - six have a number of infants under fourteen. How many of them will serve the conditions and meet the obligations you put in the law and how much not? How much will they finally close and not? Why are these conditions not specific and clearer in order not to create this insecurity? If your aim really is - as we see to be the whole spirit of the bill - to make a limitation on human resources and also to achieve budgetary targets, then why do you say that you are actually coming to upgrade this function of the educational system and that no kindergarten is in danger? In September we will see how many kindergartens will eventually be closed. But do you know what the matter with the province is? The point is that toddlers cannot move for too many miles. Already many of them gather from three - four villages in one, to fill in the number of seven, which was the case with the old law. Now with the number of fourteen they have to move over very long kilometre distances and you understand how difficult this is for young children in the province. Minister, there is also another issue, which has to do with an amendment tabled by Mr Vernardakis, which is my responsibility, which has something to do with the area of administrative reform and I cannot comment on it. It concerns the recruitment of two journalists from the former Ministry of Public Order and Citizen Protection. This up to a point is understandable. At first, there was argument on the part of the government that a super-department is being created and many Deputy Ministers, for the purpose of limiting budget costs. Eventually, however, you then come to and gradually to each Deputy Minister, you actually give the same data, the same rights, which would also have as Minister, and that would require two journalists for the former Ministry of Public Order. To figure it out to a point. But what I cannot understand, Minister, and you really need to think about how you accept this amendment, is that this intake works retrospectively from September 23, 2015. I do not think that in a piece of legislation, in which we come and have many limitations, it is reasonable to accept an amendment to recruit two journalists with retrospective power from 23-9-2015, that is, since they allegedly offered their work. If they actually offered it, they had to do this after two - three months, that is, after a reasonable period of time, as well. We cannot come eight months later and turn around and get some money for services they offered from 23 September 2015 to the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection. There is an amendment of mine in the bill and I am glad that the relevant Deputy Minister for Higher Education is here. It has to do with the building complex of TEI Kilkis, the annex of the former Alexandreio TEI of Thessaloniki, which now belongs to the TEI of Central Macedonia. Madam Minister, we have also had a meeting at the Ministry, which you have made sure that it is done, with the presence of all the parties involved. There is one issue that was created, as this building is actually delivered now, but in between was Alexandria TEI of Thessaloniki, but at the moment with the project "ATHENA", which was voted on in the summer of 2013, this section has been transferred to the TEI of Central Macedonia. So this building complex, which was done precisely for this purpose by the European Union, must be followed by the department, that is to say it must now belong to the Central Macedonia TEI. There were some legal issues that were raised. I think the Ministry shows a flexibility to overcome, because what matters to me and to the inhabitants of Kilkis is that we cannot see a state-of-the-art building staying void and essentially alone to marvel at the entrance of the city. At the moment the students of TEI are forced to follow their educational program in some lousy facilities hired, while there is a building ready for them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, Minister, it is a request for all the political institutions of Kilkis, and it is my request, because it is - I think - mature conditions on this point, to accept this amendment, so that a problem can be solved, which is only positive for Kilkis' society and the education system in general. Thank you, Minister, and colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u274	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u275	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for a few seconds, because that was going - come on, it's not helping.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u276	I take the floor again, to inform the National Representation that there will be no chance of a kindergarten being shut down because he will not have fourteen students and will have eight, nine and go by saying. There's no way like that. I say this very clearly, so that there is no legitimate concern. I have told the House quite clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u277	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u278	Secondly, I would like to say that it is wrong to continue in the National Representation the debate on the substantiated 'Kathemerini' publication on the reliability of the examinations. I am sorry that a university and ex-Secretary of State for Education, Mr Papatheodorou, has been reintroducing this issue despite the fact that it has been permanently closed with an explicit statement from us this morning. I'm sorry. Apparently, there's some sort of feasibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u279	I'll explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u280	I would like to stress that I am bound by the secrecy and confidentiality of the examination procedure and I cannot refer to names. However, all that is being heard is lies and, unfortunately, on purpose - I do not want to say by subject - they undermine the scale of the examinations. I'm really sorry that, despite the controversy that has been made, there are politicians here who continue this terrible game.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u281	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u282	Thirdly, I agree with the representative of the JRC in the criticism of the JRC. It is the criticism of the educational community. Only Mrs Diamantopoulou had a different view of the educational problems of the ESDP and the problem that this school was financed by the NSDP and not by the state budget. And here there is a great responsibility for the PASOK governments that did not incorporate the EAP, who believed it in the state budget. They left it with the N.R.R.D. balls. I don't like to argue personally. Mr. Papatheodorou personally disputes and I'm sorry about this. I want to repeat that the first and second grades, Mr. Papatheodorou, and not the first one, as you said, ends at 12.25 and the remaining classes at 13.15. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u283	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u284	So that's the clear thing, while the ESA ends at 14:00. This is our disagreement. Not the first, then, but the second. That's all I had to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u285	Mr President, I can have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u286	Mr Papatheodorou has the floor in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u287	Minister, I really thank you for the opportunity you're giving me. First, I told you that, anyway, the thing is, the evil happened. And the evil has to do with the insecurity created to the families of the children, who will give all-Hellenic exams. We were sleeping inside the ministry those days. Do you know why? Because we had to safeguard the complete confidence of the families in these tests. Second, Minister,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u288	So you're going on with it. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u289	I told you that anyway, with what you're really doing, it happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u290	What's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u291	Evil is done. Make sure it doesn't go any further.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u292	Stop, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u293	Second, I'm very pleased...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u294	It's misery when you say there's a question of insecurity! It's a disgrace! It's a downfall that you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u295	I'm returning the characterizations. When you don't have any arguments, like before...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u296	I'm sorry you were at the Ministry of Education!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u297	For that very reason, Minister, what you said is that, at last, after so many months in the Ministry, you have learned when the primary school ends!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u298	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u299	Minister, I'll give you the floor later. You don't sound. Do not write anything in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u300	Congratulations on something else, Minister. Instead of apologising for these teachers, you went off the top and said, "What should we do? They shall end then.’; Because you talked about primary school. And there's in the Minutes that. While you should say ‘I'm sorry, I was wrong’, not only did you not say so, but you also attacked. That's just cowardice. And I'm telling you exactly the way it was pictured in everyone's eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u301	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u302	I just want to say good to Mr. Papatheodorou. Although there was in the Ministry of Education - no one remembers it, of course - what it does now is to want to undermine the tests. I'm sorry. You won't be known that way, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u303	Exactly, that's why...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u304	You'll remain who you are. Substitute of the examinations. Good for you. I'm really sorry about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u305	Good. Stop here if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u306	So each one as long as he's there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u307	We're moving on. Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Theocharopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u308	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, the day-to-day issue, insurance and taxation, comes at the weekend, surprisingly, to be voted on in the Greek Parliament. At this point, I would like to point out that on your benches, Mr Chakalotos sat down a few months ago when he said that if we arrive in May and the evaluation is not closed, we live in a burn. The evaluation didn't close. It has not been closed today when we are talking about evaluation. And it's been the same mistake for the second time. Mr. Varoufakis has left, but it seems that all he has changed is one "n" in relation to the Yannis. Nothing else. In the last few years, therefore, you have again not closed the evaluation in time, when it should have been the first time, and it has constantly gone backwards, and the Greek Government is forced to accept everything with the back wall and to deprive the funds at the end. Because this is the case and it concerns all ministries and all policy areas: Take out of reserves right now the money, cannot pay overdue public debts in the private sector and create a vicious cycle of unemployment, recession and stagnation. This is not a situation that can get us out of the crisis. What is needed are effective policies. And we're talking about evidence. We have made numerous proposals to the insurance sector to Mr Katrugalo. Here Mr Katrugalos from the Stepma said this: "The Democratic Incorporation gave me priced specific proposals. It is the only party.” Look, for so long, it has not given us a response to these figures, in particular for the proposals we have made, and what we are calling for by structural reforms to solve the problem and not by squeeze, by increased contributions, by overtaxing those currently producing it, so that no one can be left in the Greek economy and create a situation from which we will not be able to get a return. That's the reality. That's what we're living for. I have heard the President of Parliament today say that it is a tool and not a prerequisite for the vote this weekend on insurance. A tool? To tell the workers and pensioners at the moment, with the billions of euros of measures that are increasing, because the negotiations were not closed on time. A tool to worsen working conditions, to worsen the living conditions of the unemployed and the retired. That's the reality. It is a tool to worsen living and not a tool to negotiate right now, as it seems. The deadlock therefore goes on in all policy areas. We have recently seen the attempt to use telephone leaks - and I am careful - to use talks between members of the International Monetary Fund. Today, in this House, we have heard Mr Papachristopoulos say exactly what he has said, namely that there is no misinterpretation - 'What else could the government do when the Tomsen-Velkoulescu dialogue was brought to the fore?' He's struggling with nails and teeth. How would the International Monetary Fund otherwise burn them?' If this information I mentioned now does not show its intention of doing it, then what do they show? Because Mr Papachristopoulos then said to correct: "I fear that the despair and grief of some people, because the evaluation ends, leads them to the exaggeration and misinterpretation of my statements", which I read just now. Not only is there no misinterpretation, but fortunately he told the House and cannot at present blame the channels. It cannot blame the channel of Parliament, the committee responsible for hearing all this. So this is where they need answers. What we told you at the first moment and we criticised politically is that use, that weekend, in the way it was, will worsen our relations with the partners and the International Monetary Fund. And if you remember well, in those talks that came out, if they are verified, the following is said, "we should go to the negotiation back", the interlocutors said, "because this will prevent Greece from closing and will have a worse negotiating position." This is exactly what we tell you that you must avoid both 2015 and 2016! You don't avoid it and we constantly have the same mistakes in front of us. And because I have referred to Mr Papachristopoulos, your co-chairman, the Independent Greeks, today I could only refer to him again, because I see that you are often referring to the European socialists, Mr Pitella, who I have met three times in the last year, what he says - and today I will tell you, because he has said so publicly - to every meeting we are doing is that he considers SYRIZA's co-existence with the Independent Greeks in our country, with a party like this. Today, therefore, he said so in public. I have not seen you comment today on the statements made by Mr Pitella, the leader of the Group of the European Socialists and Democrats, about how unnatural he considers this conflict to be, which you have also made in this way of governance, which he has. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a bill today and it is not here, unfortunately, Mr Philis - the question of evaluation, the question of full-day schools, and I want to say this: I really want the Minister to answer some arguments about the fact that what he brings is worse than what is currently in place. They were piloted in 2010 and have been extended to 65% of the country's student potential. What did the day provide, with the single reformed educational programme? Liberation of the school from the narrow cognitive academic character. She gave more emphasis to arts and culture, to a greater extent to the movement, cooperation, expression, experiential involvement of students, upgraded the involvement of students in physics - twenty hours compared to twelve hours in classical grades - and provided such an occupation with English - a total of twenty hours English compared to twelve hours in classical - and promoted computers and to a greater extent, activities that were not academic. You now reduce, with the new proposal, the hours of your gymnastics, music, theatrical education, computing, English as an alternative. Have they worked all day like this? We'll first tell you they haven't achieved everything. It is important, however, to stress that they have started pilots and very quickly extended to 65% of the school force. Therefore, instead of evaluating the institution, you are going to do something else, which, in our view, does not ensure the necessary. It does not ensure equal opportunities for all students, as it concerns schools larger than four seats, avoids confrontation with the great problem of the existence of gaps in educational staff, creates schools of many speeds, sets different conditions for registration in the full-day school, limits schoolchildren's stays, exposing them to greater inequality. It was the previous one an expensive school, why did we hear that too? Yes, but it responded to the real needs of the students and, of course, was guaranteed funding from the NSRF. We must stress that in 2010 - because we heard from the budget that this money was not guaranteed - it was our country's situation, which you are now admitting to too many of your positions. It is clear, therefore, that SYRIZA is trying to open up with as few spaces as possible in educational schools, by abolishing this type - successful, in our view - to save four thousand educational posts. That's the reality. Let's say it clearly. You can tell her clearly. You have had a proposal and agreed to join this solution. However, the better distribution of teachers, the operation in training modules of the whole day, and the proper management of the NSRF programmes for the year ended with the effective claim of new resources, could, in our view, support the entire day in the existing way, which we consider successful and considered to be a success in society as well. I also heard during the various speeches that it is unfair to charge for fragmentary arrangements - Mr Fotakis said so - and you, Madam Minister, said that there are so many loose ends, and that is why there are many amendments. You are probably not in the same line as Mr Balafa now, who just said that this way of legislating is not right, to legislate in this way, with the ongoing amendments. 'I have to admit it' he said a moment ago. You came to another entirely line to say that it is good, you said to read and carefully read everything there is. We will be putting ourselves on these lines tomorrow. However, I would just like to stress the following repetitive thing: you have brought six ministerial amendments. I'm not going to talk about them right now. I don't have the time. You brought two other ministerial amendments - the Ministry of Education - which you brought to them at 19.00 late, and I would ask the Bureau not to accept - today and at 21.00 p.m., two hours later, you have brought four pages of legislative improvements for the late amendment, which you brought to seven o'clock this afternoon. Isn't that a fragmentary, sloppy legacy? This is not one way in which you have now exceeded every limit, which does not honor any of us, and I think that it does not honor you and does not honor SYRIZA Members too? We all have to admit it here so it can finally stop. He won't stop unless we admit it first. Here we have reached the point that you do not even admit it today. Ladies and gentlemen, at the very least I have left, I would like to tell you that we are discussing a draft law, which should be limited to research, but which focuses more on the other provisions than on research. It is a bill, which, while he wishes, in the explanatory statement, to deal with questions of direction of the research system, does not provide a framework which would give this direction, but deals with individual issues. It is a bill which, while it should be discussed with the issues of education, because the dialogue on higher education is interlinked with research, comes hand-in-hand so much, it cannot even give the cost of its regulations. I'm talking in particular. The report of the General Accounting Office of the State rather than usually documenting the costs of the state budget arrangements is limited in several cases to indicate phrases, such as ‘for the expenditure in question no information has been sent from the expedited Ministry’, at another point ‘this expenditure has not been determined by the expedited Ministry’. As a result of all this curiosity, there is a law that contradicts and creates more problems than it aims to solve. Of course, there were data to be used, such as the European Charter of the Researcher in the Code of Conduct for the recruitment of researchers, which has existed since 2005. You don't have to find the wheel. You can take them into account in order to proceed to a new legislative framework. All this, therefore, shows how far we are from creating the right conditions to attract and keep researchers and to form a safe and truly valuable framework for research and innovation. As far as research is concerned, the bill despite the slight improvements to certain provisions is far from being a European comprehensive law in the first century. As far as the first chapter is concerned, we agree on too many of its provisions. However, the second and third chapters should be absent from this bill. That is why you will see that in the first chapter on research we will support the provisions, but in the second and third, because we should not be linked, we will not support them. In general, therefore, the second chapter refers to higher education arrangements and the third chapter on primary and secondary education. We disagree with many, such as the distinction between secondary education and IEK. Unfortunately, the Minister was not here to answer me before - and I hope he will be transferred - to the question of the whole day.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u309	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u310	I shall conclude, Mr President. I just want to say one more thing, because I have heard and I really want to believe that what you said about kindergartens is true. On this matter I have had the opportunity to hear you in committee, and here you say that under fourteen children will not close the time you mention it, then bring an example that if it is with a child, it will be closed. So, if he's with six, five, four, what if he's going to be on the basis of what we're voting on? You suddenly put an arbitrary limit again - eight - as you spoke a moment ago. What's gonna happen? We cannot when we legislate not to know exactly what is going on. So I hope that this will not be the case in kindergarten, which they need to operate on. We do not question it if there is what you refer to somewhere. We're not talking about a case like this. But if there is somewhere with five children, which is a place far away from all the rest, it will remain.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u311	The law provides for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u312	If you are planning to clarify that, then. Because it's not right to talk about numbers all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u313	He's saying it clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u314	Thank you very much, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Mr Anagnostopoulou, Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u315	Mr President, may I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u316	Not now. Probably later. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u317	Thank you, Mr President. This government has never concealed, as our rapporteur, Mr Gavroglou, in his first speech, that we are in inconsistent conditions. Personally, I have said many times that we are in almost war conditions. In these circumstances legislating is not easy, especially when situations have precedented that have left too many things after. When, in this Chamber - and the Greek people are listening to us - we are talking about reform, we need to make it clear what kind of reform these reforms are, in what context these reforms are and where we want to lead a sensitive area like education. I know one thing: that in unrealistic conditions, what a society is trying to do is to gather all its powers to enable it to cope with it. Education is the most important area in which all the forces of a society must be brought together and no group of the population can be left marginalised by this kind of good that European culture, which you so much call upon, has seen as a public, free asset. Democracy, therefore, is an educational system for the whole world, for all social groups and not for students and students 'clients'. And we will insist on this expression, because as the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mrs Vaki, has said, the words show what we want to say. The term "client" for education hides something. He's not innocent. Let us come to the second chapter on my own competences, the higher institutions, and go to the great reform that was carried out by Mr. 4009/2011, the wonderful 'Councils', to which we refer and are referring again, as if the great incision to the educational system has been made. I will say one thing: When a country finds itself unrealistic, what it is trying to do is to stimulate all its history, which gave these higher institutions the coherent fabric of solidarity, democracy and which made these institutions worthy of European and international institutions. No one goes to implant things out of every academic tradition in order, like the characteristic expression, to change the DNA of universities. Are we ideologists? You want to talk about ideoscopy? Are the people who considered the foundations to be corrupt, intertwined things in which something needs to be installed from above to control them? Was that the role of the board, their philosophy? And I will say another thing: I will speak about the one of the inspirations that took part in the Committee on Sages, which was then set up. I won't mention a name. And the 'NEW YORK TIMES' and the 'LOS ANGELES TIMES' these days. There is no discussion here, of course. We have to deal with it, Mr. Papatheodorou, and create panic in the world that something is going on with the exams. But let us talk about the real facts. So this lady, the wise person, who was here in the Sage Commission in 2010-2011, who is also a dean of a well-known university and who criticised us, saying that we do not accept the councils because we are regressive and anachronistic and all this is being persecuted today. And you know what? For criminal and academic offences. Do you know any of these criminal and academic offences? Some of these are that he has dealt with the conquests of students in a disgraceful way, authoritarianly, these conquests that you consider lead to deprivation of institutions or schools. Also another offense is that he incited students to student loans - see clients! - or the way he's involved in academic writings and a thousand two more. That was one of the enlightened wise men who told us about the councils. As far as the Council is concerned, I will say a few words. We didn't deceive them, ladies and gentlemen. We do not deceive any of the chosen members of the boards. They deserved themselves in practice. The Chairman of the Committee on Forestry, Mr Gavroglou, sent a questionnaire. The members of the committee have it in your hands. Why don't you read it to see what these members say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u318	We've read it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u319	These members are at best awkward, otherwise they keep talking about ambiguities of the law. Read a little carefully Law 4009, see that it refers either to provisions of previous laws or keeps saying that they will be resolved by presidential decrees or other legislation, which has never been done. The fact that the institutions weren't working on it? The fact that we come to "definition" the councils is something that reality created and our brains did not invent. The councils were not deceived because some were going and did not allow them to meet, because in this sense and in the Senate such incidents have occurred. Why have the Senates never been deceived? Is it because it is the most democratic institution of the institutions and has been tested in time for too many years? Read a little more carefully about Law 4009, to see what he says about councils, to get it from a legal point of view. I don't know legally, but I sat down and read them. He's talking about the consensual opinion of the Senate on a number of issues. Who said that the Senate is inferior, an academic body that is represented by the academic community? Well, we didn't dismantle the councils. And I'm sorry about the members, because someone was worthwhile. I said 'in war conditions'. One says, "We are calling from outside members, from universities we need..." because, as we know, our own universities - who happen to be many in here too - are useless! Nobody made sure to think that these universities can't come to Greece to meet, because the university just doesn't have any money to invite them. You don't make an instrument that can't actually work out of the state we're in. And they say so - we happen to know such members, even though we are not excellent, and we have discussed it - that he could not meet. I won't insist on councils. Anyone who has a little open mind has gone through responsibility positions in institutions, universities and TEI, knows why they have not been able to function and what malfunctions have occurred. Since I have no time - perhaps tomorrow I am given the opportunity - to say that all the others relating to the second chapter and the amendments which we are forced to bring, yes, it is not the best way to legislate. Only there's a difference. I will give you a simple example: We have resorted to a New Year's Eve on Eve, which was literally overdue, because for years the issue of administrative officials, the Open Hellenic University, the "Diofantos" etc. They had stayed in the air and their contracts ended, yes, we had to do something immediately, so that people would not be paid for and that they would not be left without a contract. So these amendments or provisions are trying to solve the direct operating problems of higher institutions. Anyone who does not see this and does not see the conditions in which we live and constantly invoke modernization, which is in the air and is out of every social reality, political and European at the moment, is talking about a whole different thing. And one last thing: let's not talk about education. I will not say any more about complications or corruption. I am also surprised, of course, because when there were five things in the air, because there were provisions and regulations that opened universities, closed universities, opened TEIs, closed TEIs, as if there were drinks coming from the map. Let us not mention the problems that continue to arise in everyday life. I would like to say one thing, however: why were these political people not able, after being cut so much for education, to stop the availability of teachers, to stop them all, Mr Papatheodorou, when the teachers' strikes were considered illegal and abusive, when, in other words, the police had come forward so that they would not make a strike in an examination period? And now you raise a topic because a post just wants to show the inability of the Left. You have invested in one thing: To break down the moral advantage on the Left - you will not succeed with those who have to silage you - and show that the Left is incapable. And now you are pressing at the most sensitive point at this critical moment, which is for Greek society the examinations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u320	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u321	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u322	You have the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u323	Five seconds, Mr. President. Madam Minister, since you referred to a specific fact, I should like to inform you of the following: the police did not have to go to the centres of inquiry. Do you know why? Because the day before, SYRIZA broke the strike. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u324	Good. We proceed with Mr Saridis Ioannis, Member of the Centron Association. Mr Saridis, if you have kindness, a little respect for time, because we're too crowded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u325	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the first time I have been up to this step, I have expressed the strong concerns of the Centro Association, the perfectly justified ones today, for the attempt at appreciating the need to answer within this Chamber. The debate within Parliament is the essence of democracy and, as such, it must take place on conditions of respect and responsibility. Are you proud of the parliamentary presence of the 'first time left'? What can you answer the citizens who ask 'what is the government doing for me'? The only solid answer you give them is that the government is negotiating for the good of all of us. You say what you do, you do it for our own good. At the same time, however, you take care to emphasise at every opportunity and dramatically how you negotiate blackmailers. You all have an easy solution to tell the citizens how you blackmail. You all admit it and you all favour the dissemination of the assessment that the Greek Government is being blackmailed. However, Mr Tsipras has never answered me to my timely question, which was simple, I think clear. I asked Mr Tsipras straight away if the government is blackmailing him. Mr. Tsipras, undoing his own words that he would strengthen the institution of the Prime Minister's time, chose to remain silent. So you realise my surprise when just a few days ago, here, in the Chamber of Parliament and from this Step, Mr. Tsipras said that the Greek Government was not blackmailing. With your actions and your omissions you have led the Greek economy to inappropriate memoirs. You imposed the capital controls and created the conditions for the last interested investors to leave. The Greek economy is an area in which you have failed, gentlemen of SYRIZA. You failed in relation to the minimum requirements. You have proved that you are not capable of setting and safeguarding the red lines. You don't know what a red line means. You don't know what determination means. You are not capable of defending yourself with arguments. You have done it with the institutions in Greece rather than messing with the institutions abroad. You've been caught by an ideoleptic streak. That's the only way to explain what you did today in education. There has been a lot of talk about this bill. A great deal has been said about the policy of the Ministry of Education. What is certain is that today education is exclusively in the hands of our teachers. Since today, the Greek school is not, as the Greek state should have, but teachers, who will have to overcome themselves in ways that are difficult to imagine. The institution of the Greek family counts another wound. The violent way you are now intervening in the daily life of the Greek family, I warn you that it will have unforeseen consequences. You overthrow the planning of hundreds of thousands of people. Thousands of people will change their schedule, because the Minister does not respect the institution of the Greek school and wants to implement his vision. How dangerous the vision of the Minister is, we understood it when he informed us of the truth about the Pontius genocide. Now both the most skeptic and the most optimistic can only admit that the institutions are plentiful. The unacceptable process of dialogue on education has presided over citizens. No one, however, expected that, for management reasons, the Minister would smash the planning of thousands of families. The present government does not know how to engage in dialogue. This is a joint finding of all those who had the opportunity to participate in the procedures provided for. I have been following the work of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, with great interest in the work of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media. I did not see you answer the critical questions of Mrs Paografia, President of OLEME. I don't think you understood what the President of the Teacher Federation told you. I do not believe that you have shown respect for the proposals of the Committee on Budgets. Do you understand what the Presidents of the Committees have told you? What research are we talking about today, since, in the well-known Stalinist way, you would say, you have emptied the PPE funds, as you did with other money, which is not yours? You have spread your hand for a long time and in money and in rights that are not yours, you do not belong and you cannot manage them with this historical curiosity. Tell us what you have done from what Mr Bratakos and Mr Petrakos, the OELEK representative, have proposed, which has explained to you that, if anything, you are insulting the dignity and honor of people, when you dare say that the solution is to set up investigation committees by public officials? Don't you understand that you're insulting people? Where is your famous social sensitivity? So, how many kindergartens are closing today? How many parents won't have where to leave their children at the start of the new school year? We'll find out in September, because today you said that nobody would shut down. We'll find out in September. How many teachers today confirm that they have lost their years? How many families of teachers will raise their hands, not knowing how they will get them out of September? Your left-hand commitments to preschool education, holistic approach, pedagogical dimension, go for a walk today. Did you hear what our kindergarteners told you about functional illiteracy? Did you hear what special education people say? Do you realize that there can be no school without special attention being paid to specialists? To the other special staff, to the special scientific staff, have you responded, why is it going to happen to them what happens to them? What did you tell them? How do you justify their absolute reparation? What does their inclusion in the general category mean? I imagine we'll all find out in September. Mr. Friends is not honest. Until ten days ago he talked about twenty thousand recruitments of permanent teachers and about the social nature of the Greek school. Mr. Friend's tone changed to show us how radical left is. He said "school", instead of saying "school". After the emphasis Mr Philis will also change the lights of education! It requires the assumption that today's pedagogical reform is journalistic, fiscal and management. Instead of the twenty thousand, then, recruiting teachers, who are pre-electional - and the Greek people will do well to weigh on the importance of the statements made by the Minister of State - we are talking today about the shrinking of the Greek school, the abolition of successful institutions, such as standards, experimentals, whole-day schools and long-term schools. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. How do we think you'll add something to education when you cut her hands today? The Greek people are seeing the government today admit that, because it has no money, it is taking hours. The unveiling, and the total collapse of the Left Fleet is now being detected and please pay attention: The "first time left" tells the unemployed parents that they will not be able to send their children to school, because only the children of those who work in school fit. You are leveling up institutions, attacking education, religion, family. We're not voting for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u326	We proceed with the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr Evangelos Karakostas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr President. The actions of both the current and the previous government are condensed in the field of education in just one word: elitism. The difference in SYRIZA - ANEL policy towards the Republic of New Democracy and PASOK lies only in the intensity of actions to be demoralised and unchristian of public education. The changes, we remind you, in the books of History, which provoked the Greek people's fair rage and reaction, began not in the SYRIZA Government but in the government of New Democracy. On the substance, that is, the current government is heated to complete the work which the New Democracy has left in the middle. And the New Democracy left it in the middle, not because it opposes the demoralization and unchristianism of education, but in order to limit, as far as possible, the evacuation of patriotic voters towards the Golden Dawn. Like every area of public life, the education sector has been brutally affected by the policy of the memorials, which with fanaticism apply SYRIZA and ANEL, as the New Democracy and PASOK used it before, serving not the interests of the Greek people but the speculative interests of the international loan sharks. According to some estimates, which have seen the light of publicity, four hundred thousand Greek graduates have fled abroad, seeking and claiming the self-evident right to professional rehabilitation and progress. And yet, there are here factions that declare with a courage a thousand monkeys their pride in what they have done to this day. And their MPs unregulatedly claim to have set a back on the country's salvation. Obviously, these four hundred thousand Greeks, young people, did not save them, as, of course, you did not save the productive powers of the country, the Greek farmers, the free professionals, nor of course the pensioners. But the substance is this: you have sought half a million, almost a million new Greeks, who were willing to offer their place to survive, on the one hand, your vulgar and expensive party state and, on the other, to replace them with millions of illegal immigrants, to whom you are also looking for investors. For the People's Association - Golden Dawn the largest investment for Greece is the return of these thousands of Greeks, which are the guarantee of the country's progress. You of the anti-constitutional arc seek by force to Hellenize invaders. We nationalists are struggling to get the Greeks back home, because these children will save Greece. Neither will you save it, nor will your loan sharks, those whom you are ridiculously calling "partners". In conclusion, the position of the People’s Association - Golden Dawn is the following: Marxists and liberal internationalists down your hands from the Greek youth! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u328	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give Mr Jelloney the floor, I have the honour of making two announcements to this House. Firstly, the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics submits its reports to the Prosecutor's requests for permission to prosecute members of parliament. Secondly, the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights forwarded to the House on 4-5-2016, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and n. (a) Criminal court proceedings against the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Olga Gerovasilis, and (b) Criminal proceedings against the Deputy Minister, Nicholas Xydakis. Mr. Jellonis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u329	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the Deputy Minister of Education say at least five times that the country is in unrealistic conditions and, indeed, I was asked: Did you not know that in 2011, since today we have to pay tribute to the four victims of Marfin, which was the result of the anti-immemorial mob? And, indeed, it is not our democracy that justice has yet been done. Didn't you know that in January 2015, that you were feeding everything toward everyone in order to become a government? Didn't you know about the referendum? Didn't you know that with the September 2015 elections, when you were feeding the 'parallel programme'? In fact, I would like to ask whether these recent Easter holidays have all experienced the previous Easter change promised to us by the Prime Minister. Of course, I mean the resurrection of the economy. Of course not. Another red line faded before its time, like the other red lines, which are backed by the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence, to cover its naughty retreat to the entire front of the negotiations and its full subordination. We may not have had the resurrection of the economy, but we had the revealing of your false political speech, of the language "Pinochio" that you are used to using, but which is no longer believed today and you cannot convince anyone. In fact, the harsh anti-grassroots measures, which are before the gates, are burdening an unbearable cross to the Greek people, a savage tax raid and a confiscation raid on incomes that eliminate everything that is productive in the country, small and medium-sized enterprises, young scientists, farmers and the new increases in indirect taxes are mainly affecting the poorest sections of the population. This is the EUR 5.4 billion package you have agreed on. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people are now tired of following your tough negotiations for seventeen months and being informed of current political developments, as all they hear every day is about measures and taxes. He is now waiting for the fatality that will downgrade the level of his everyday life. We are now in the House to discuss a bill from the Ministry of Education entitled 'Regions for research and other provisions'! I do not say that because I underestimate the importance and importance of education, but because the country is hanging on a tense rope today and you are trying with an endless communication tactics game, which you yourself invent, to disorient public opinion from the burning and really current problems and to show that something is moving inside, something is doing. You choose, at the same time, this weekend to bring the most appalling bill of the last decade to the detriment of the Greek people, insurance and tax, so that there are no social unrest, just to catch the society in sleep. This is a 'fast track' weekend. And journalist trade unions are rushing to put back on the government, smiling the media, closing the microphones and downloading the pencils, thus exempting the government from any annoying criticism. I ask you this: where was your honest compromise going? You celebrated the evaluation, which should have been closed six months ago, and this whole semester, unfortunately, you kept up the account. The fact that the Government claims and invokes the Commission's evidence that it can withstand and recover, we will see them this weekend, because you say half the truth. What I have to say is that you have actually brought a second memorandum of the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict, a memorandum of EUR 3.6 billion, which we will be able to discuss at the weekend. I ask you this today: does Hardouvelis email still bother you when we were talking about 280 million euros and today you are loading on the backs of the Greek people only EUR 1.8 billion for insurance or when we were talking about growth of 6% in 2015 and 2016 and today we have a recession of 1%? Let me now refer to the bill. It is now, in fact, unacceptable to the parliamentary procedure for the amendments. You were talking about the coup d'état of the amendment. Here we have bills, such as the bill on grazing land with twenty-three articles and twenty-five amendments. We have so far had eight ministerial amendments and ten parliamentarians and, at the same time, we also have legislative improvements to the delayed amendments. This does not honour the law of our Parliament, it does not honor any of us and, finally, it will have to end. I would also like to mention that the worst of all in the bill is that it creates a class education. It's criminal to dismantle the full-day school. This is another revolutionary reform of SYRIZA-ANEL co-government, such as the abolition of excellence! The full-day public school was a social reform of PASOK that helped the Greek family. It started in 2010 and was extended to 65% of the country's student potential. In fact, we had provided for and there is already a system for children to be able to obtain certification of foreign languages and computer knowledge from public schools, without parents having to pay for them. With the abolition of the full day's school, this system is also being abolished. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude in thirty seconds, Mr President. On the substance, a left government adopts the most neoliberal policies, turns the Greek family into the most difficult and fragile economic situation towards private schools and care centres, again burdening the family budget. It is obvious that the bill under discussion is trying to save four thousand teachers by reducing by three hours the time that primary children lived in school, burdening families with low incomes at the cost of learning, as I said, foreign language and computer, thus creating social inequalities and divergences. Really, how far is that, ladies and gentlemen of the coup d'état? All this because you cannot make a better distribution of teachers, the removal of distractions and transfers, but also the proper management of the NSRP programmes for the year that is being completed, while effectively claiming new resources that could thus support the whole day's unified education programme. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u330	Thank you. Mrs. Georgia SYRIZA has the floor. We're going to close today's meeting with Mr. Fortsakis. Mrs. Genias, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u331	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have to discuss today's draft government for education. We have to discuss the future of our children, who are the hope of this place and the only way out of the vicious circle of crisis. In attempting to keep our children, therefore, in our home country - its best minds in fact - we are extending the amendment of Law No.4310/2014, most of which has not been effectively implemented and has been cancelled by the previous governments' practices so far. In addition, we set the conditions, after genuine consultation with the academic and research community, for the adoption of a new long-term framework law on research, innovation and technological development. Previous governments with their previous laws have shown institutions the monumental policy in this neuro-algal area of research and innovation, as for many years they have supported research and have demonstrated their understanding of entrepreneurship, only by supporting useful research, and indeed in the well-known state-owned way, which strengthens customer relations. Their majestic design for our country's national policy limited research only to "smart specialisation" and, finally, dismantled the employment status of researchers by removing the permanentity in the first and second grades, providing even the possibility of dismissing researchers for no substantial reason. With your particular failed policy, gentlemen, you have for decades undermined the growth that our country could have if it had invested in education, research and innovation. You have persecuted the best minds of this place. Colleagues, as an educator and as a mother, and indeed a teacher in an experimental school, which I have served over the past five years, I am very well aware of the diseases of our educational system. In my professional course, I fought hard to improve myself, and that's what many in here know very well. Today, then, we have the opportunity to all join together, colleagues. Yes, all of us together, because you are also due to support it, so that we can do what we should have taken care of from time to time, open up the dialogue on education, on the future of our children. I want to stand on some key points of the bill. As far as kindergartens are concerned, things have been heard in here. Under the provisions of the bill, the minimum number for the setting up of a kindergarten class in urban areas is increased to fourteen and is reduced to five of seven, which until now have been for remote and inaccessible areas. This extends the right to education to everyone wherever they are. Clearly the government's intention is the fourteen-year-old compulsory education, which has emerged from the first moment not in words, but mainly in actions. With regard to the recruitment of alternates, the total legislative arrangements inherited by the SYRIZA Government on how to recruit substitute teachers should be closed down to the time of history. The planned arrangement for the recruitment of alternates by means of ASPs fully aligns with the rulings of our country's Supreme Courts and sets objective criteria that strengthen the validity of the procedure. In view of the fact that there is - and we know - the problem of budgetary deadlocks, it will carry out the necessary recruitments of alternates on the basis of last year's procedure. The next school year, however, there will be an SAEP procedure for permanent appointments. After how many years? I shall refer briefly to the abolition of the criminalisation of student mobility. In no way is there any justification for referral of adolescents to the courts on matters relating to the functioning of the school. So we are abolishing the criminalisation of student mobility, which has so far been an extremely undisciplined act of action. As far as the full-time school is concerned, an important reform in primary school has been implemented since the new year. It is about creating the single type of full-day primary school. Thus, a constitutional commitment is made to provide equal opportunities in education for all students of the same grade, contrary to what you want, gentlemen, to distribute to the press for the full-day primary school to be abolished. In addition, the function of the single, two - and three --seat municipal schools remains unchanged. So it is also false that the complaint that the Ministry of Education intends to close hundreds of primary schools. Now in terms of research, the philosophy of the law and the mission of research bodies is restored. It is a state's obligation to draw up national research policy, to amend and formulate academically and politically ambiguous definitions, or even wrong definitions, such as basic research, excellence and evaluation. Rehabilitation of researchers in the first and second grades. And with regard to researchers' work, the legal ambiguities of L.4310/2014 are removed. Direct uncertainties and existing or emerging malfunctions are being addressed in the flow of Community funding and the functioning of research bodies. Measures shall be taken to control arbitrage and accountability of management bodies. They are upgraded to have greater democratic legitimacy, the scientific boards of the institute. Amendments are introduced, which facilitate the procedures, which speed up the absorption of funds into co-financed programmes. As far as higher education is concerned, this has the task of being the place where knowledge is not confined to a task force. It is clear that sufficient time should be given to discuss and hide the main directions of such an effort. The overall restructuring must respond to the questions of how and for what purpose young people are trained in the universities of the country, in what objectives and in what ways is research carried out within them, as well as at which level and with which content knowledge is produced and reproduced. This bill does not solve the problems in this sensitive area. However, it lays the foundations for their resolution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This is all a legislative initiative that contains regulations, beyond agreements with lenders. It promotes interventions which have an undeniable positive social sign. They act as a vehicle for the real development of our country. Clearly, we recognise that the austerity measures and budgetary constraints remain and make our work difficult. However, it is stated that the government's intention and clear position to put the essential pillars, which are no more than education, will not allow it to be further degraded. It is the reason why the citizens chose SYRIZA to manage and promote growth in the country through substantial and real changes, because they know that, as far as possible, we will try to alleviate the difficulties that inevitably exist. As an educator for twelve years, without a single day leaving my class, I am basically proud and happy that this bill has been passed today and I am voting in favour, both at the outset and on the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u332	Thank you, Mrs. Gennay. As we have said, the last speaker is Mr Fortsakis, Member of the New Democracy, and then we will be in the voting process. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u333	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a bill, which actually covers two major areas, research and education, that is, we actually have two bills, which are not linked in any way. I would first like to point out that, unfortunately, none of the two sections of the bill have been genuinely consulted. And I am very sorry, Mr Minister, that we trusted in the national dialogue and we participated in it in good faith, while the Ministry does not hesitate to bring down provisions which have not been subject to any debate and which are not current arrangements, which one might justify on the basis of urgency, but are structural arrangements, which gradually change the whole context of our educational system. Dozens are the arrangements that have come from January 2015 in this way and we are gradually experiencing a, really, great change of the whole system and its philosophy. I would like to make a few remarks about each of the two parts of the bill, which have neither been consistent with each other, nor with any of them, nor with any other provisions, many of which regulate in a way - I would say, I do not want to use the word 'photograph', because I do not like the word - which gives any general philosophy, regulations, which leave the suspicion that it has been done for another reason rather than to deal with completely instantly issues which, however, appear permanently in education or research. In the research part I see that we have a philosophy that is completely different from that which should be promoted at this time. The country needs research to be able to release those economic forces that will allow it to recover. The bill, instead of helping to liberate it, contributes to further stateisation of research and removing research from the economy. The far-reaching change in Law4310/2014, which is being attempted, I repeat that it has been done without any real consultation. None of the main issues facing research in Greece is taken into account by the bill. For example, what are the arrangements to stop young scientists leaving abroad? Ministregation and statization prevail at all the points of operation and administration of research centres and institutes, as well as in general the bodies of research policy to go through in the hands of the Minister of Education or persons he chooses. Significant objectives of the national research, technological development and innovation strategy are being removed, such as strengthening the independence of public research organisations, Article 4. The USSR is downgrading, as the obligation to vote for the USSR is abolished by the House, although I think that you have finally returned to this, right? That's at least a good point. The General Secretariat of Research and Technology, as well as the design of the research policy under Law.4310/2014, is downgraded and passes to the Ministry's infrastructure, so that we have further ministrestructuring of the process. The participation of the research centres representative of the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology is hereby abolished and we have a representative of the Minister for Education. The ESRB shall remain an advisory body with vague responsibilities. It no longer participates in policy planning, but it simply monitors its implementation. The setting-up and setting-up of the Committee of the ESRB members is defined by the political leadership, since they are individuals appointed by the Minister of Education, while no.4310/2014 was appointed by the presidents or representatives of the EIT - TEI summit of the country, while the process of selecting the members of the EESC by the Minister of Education is being attempted. You may, Minister, choose appropriate, but the process we are following is not appropriate. The Ministry should be confined to a role entirely at the end and leave the choice of individuals to institutions, who have the power to do so, because you may today be an academic and you know the issues and it may be your choice to be the best, but there is no guarantee that this will be done in the future, because - as you know - the ministers are changing and indeed at a high speed. The merger, shearing, dismantling of research centres and institutes is now done by law and not by a presidential decree, as provided for by Law.4310/2014. The possibility of a research centre from business development is denied as well as loans and incentives for researchers. I would like, Minister, to have had the creation of a large research centre which coordinates the entire research of the country, but this centre is not a state centre, it is not a state centre, it is a centre that belongs to the forces of the market and the economy in general, the institutional forces, with the cooperation of the state, but a project for economic development. Of course, that also means that there is also an economic development plan, which is obviously missing from our country at this time. The staff of the research centres shall be evaluated by committees consisting of researchers at the same centre. So the crisis cannot be objective. The national list of judges shall include only national lists. The foreigners are gone. Regional councils are suspended. We cannot avoid any suspicion of auditing in evaluations by abolishing the existing ESRB. In a minute, I'll say two or three thoughts about the piece of education. There has been a lot of hearing here, Minister, there is a lack of a general view of a framework which shows us where the government wants to come to a final analysis. I fear that we have provisions that demolish a system, which in recent years has had a great institutional improvement, and we have provisions which degrade it in a way, I would say, completely unreasonable. At the last hour more than nine amendments have been tabled, which I could not study, I have seen diagonals. Some of them create a direct reaction. I would particularly like to comment on the possibility that you give peers to teach in years and not just postgraduate studies. If we want to have an extension of the age limit, that is something that should be discussed and something that might have to be done. But to have teachers who have left and come to undergraduate courses to complete the needs of the university, without participating in the administration and without being members of the sectors that define and control teaching, this is unacceptable. The procedure for the election of the LAG members is rightly altered. We really need to get through to a better system. Fifteen Members seem to me to be a good number, for the choice of teachers, because the system of seven committees has failed. It is also right that these elections should always be held in the presence of the general assembly, so that there is transparency, which was unfortunately extinguished by the seven chambers. 7% of the gross revenue for business activities of the LAG members is indeed unheard. What do you mean, business actions? If a university student starts selling socks, will you get him 7% of the gross? Let me make a clearer point, why do you not put the same provision for Members and ministers? If tomorrow you take out a book and sell it, don't you sell it because you're Minister? Would you sell it without being Minister? Why don't you also pay 15% to the gross receipts of any business? To be able to understand that universities in recent years have suffered a huge reduction in their wages, and it is reasonable to be able to pursue a second occupation, which, of course, is subject to great restrictions. You don't have to take 7% of them in gross and even without having done an evaluation of what has been attributed up to now to pure 7%. I would like to say a word about the occupations, even though we have spoken enough. I will not repeat what has been correctly heard by the speakers of my own party. I'm going to make a comment on the charges issue. Mrs Antoniou spoke and spoke very well about the issue of confiscations. But I will make a clarification, because obviously I am also interpreting Mrs Antonio's spirit. When we talk about charges, we do not mean those who took place at the expense of those who followed ministerial decisions. I am thinking of the five names of the University of Crete, which were charged with considerable amounts, because they were merely following a ministerial decision. The Court of Auditors considered that this ministerial decision was illegal and charged them for this reason, on the grounds that they obviously can in turn look for this money elsewhere. It is clear that such a procedure is unavoidable and, therefore, as far as I am concerned, it is right for these five to lift the charge, as well as in the case of Hamza, a teacher who took a second unpaid post and was then charged with reducing the remuneration from the first place, and of course if he had chosen the second one, he would have more money than if he had the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u334	Finish this, Mr. Fortsaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u335	And I conclude, Mr President, with one last word. You have also brought a provision on the use of PPE to cover various current costs of universities. At a time when universities have no money, it makes sense. I would like that to be less, but it makes sense to have a percentage. It also makes sense that the fighters have used money for these purposes and for the past. It is therefore good to clarify this, which in my view is true, that this provision interprets and what is there to date, so that we do not have cases of future confrontations of people who have ultimately sacrificed their lives to serve the university and are at risk of huge attacks. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr Fortsakis. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs bill: 'Regions on research and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u337	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u338	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u339	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u340	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u341	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u342	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u343	The draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Agreements on research and other provisions" was approved in principle by a majority. Colleagues, the Minutes of Thursday 25 February 2016, Friday 26 February 2016, Friday 4 March 2016, Monday 7 March 2016, Tuesday 8 March 2016 and Wednesday 9 March 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u344	The minutes of Thursday 25 February 2016, Friday 26 February 2016, Friday 4 March 2016, Monday 7 March 2016, Tuesday 8 March 2016 and Wednesday 9 March 2016 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-05-S2-commons.u345	With the agreement of the House at 0.41' the sitting is closed for Friday, May 6, 2016, at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical debate and (b) legislative work, continuation of the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: 'Research and other provisions'.
