ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The meeting's on. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before we begin, I would like to make two announcements to this House. The Standing Committee on Social Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: ‘National Instrument for Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Inclusion and Cohesion Policies, Provisions on Social Solidarity and Application of Law 387/2016 (A'85).’ The second communication reads as follows: The Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Home Affairs, Economy and Development, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Foreign Affairs, Finance, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Rural Development and Food, Deputy Ministers of Economy and Development, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Transparency and Human Rights, as well as Secretary of State for Culture and Sport, submitted a draft law on 12-12-2016: “Bull., Administrative Justice, Terror - Paralysing, Firmly Disclosure of Undeclared Income, Electronic transactions, Amendments to Law No.4270/2014 and other provisions”. This draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent and is referred to the Co-legislative Standing Committees. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: ‘National Mechanism for Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of Political Integration and Social Cohesion, Regulations on Social Solidarity and Applicable Provisions of Law No.4387/2016 (A'85)’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 9-12-2016 to discuss the draft law in two meetings. The draft law will be discussed in the sitting at the beginning. At Thursday 15 December 2016, the articles and amendments of the bill will be discussed as one section. Colleagues will be able to register freely during the speech by the two general rapporteurs, namely Mr Thrafniots and Mr Salma. I am not telling you what will be the time for today's sitting, because this will be a function of how many colleagues will be written. If a lot of people write, we'll take it at least a 12-hour, that's by 22:00 an hour. If fewer writes, today's meeting will be over in less time. Ladies and gentlemen, the ministerial amendments, which you all have in your hands, have been tabled. Two of them - and I am talking about the ministerial amendments - have already been incorporated as articles in the bill. The rest therefore remain, which will be presented by the relevant ministers tomorrow, since they will be discussed tomorrow, so that we do not waste time today when the debate is going to take place first. At the same time, if I remember correctly, I think it is eight of the parliamentary amendments. I asked Mrs Fotou tomorrow at the beginning of the sitting to say which of the parliamentary amendments she would accept, so that Members would know in advance what would be accepted or not. She will speak as soon as the list of the two rapporteurs and the six special speakers has been completed. That is to say, before the list of Members begins and before the parliamentary representatives begin, the Minister will speak. Of course, if there are any legislative improvements during the sitting, or today or tomorrow, the Minister will read them out in the Minutes, so that they can be distributed to you. Mr Brutsi has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, thank you for the opportunity. I have nothing more to complement than what you said on the second part of your position on the amendments. I will not repeat myself again in criticism of the subject of the amendments. There are over ten amendments, which are unacceptable. I would like to point out, above all, to SYRIZA's colleagues...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u3	Mr Brutsi, you are talking about the ministerial amendments now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u4	We do not know what is going to be accepted and what is not accepted by the government, Mr President. It has now widened a clientele channel, Mr President. This also affects Parliament and is unprecedented. This has no historical precedent, Minister, in Parliament's history. The parliamentary amendments are pieces of law, which - so it now appears - with the Ministry not only come to this bill, but to every bill and open up a client system of relations between social groups and members of the SYRIZA. This is the one evil for democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u5	Yeah, but let's talk about this tomorrow at the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u6	No, Mr. President! I'm hanging up! The second worst evil, Mr President - and I am hitting the alarm - is that the amendments are coming unconscious. They do not pass through the General Accounting Office of the State. They come and charge the Greek state with hundreds of millions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u7	Mr Brutsis, please, these tomorrow, which is the day of amendments and articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u8	It is a general one, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u9	Deal, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, it's general. It's a very serious thing, and the economy doesn't have it...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u11	Okay, I get it, we all get it! Please let us close here, so we don't waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u12	That's what the story will write!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u13	All right, Mr. Colleague, don't argue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u14	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Brutsi, please! Don't start now in a bill, which seems to have broad acceptance. It's not right. Leave it now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u16	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u17	Here, my colleague, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u18	What I just want to say is that at least the ministerial amendments - the content of some of them were put forward yesterday - were widely accepted by most parties in the Commission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u19	But I did! He's not talking about the two ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u20	Yeah. The rest of us haven't seen them. It therefore speaks of an empty object. Perhaps the honourable Member could make any specific position tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u21	All right, let's not ruin the climate. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-three students and students and an officer from the School of Nursing Officers. Welcome to the House and thank you for your excellent work, which I personally know you are doing. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Emmanuel Thraniotis, has the floor. It is now beginning to be registered by colleagues who want to speak. I am referring to the Members and not to the special speakers, because they are registered by the parties, they have sent their names. Here, Mr. Thraniotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that it is a bit of a stench on my right to speak of a party and a client state, when all one can remember is the appointments to hospitals in the 'four, three, one' system. But unfortunately, "speak" is necessary, because something will be left in the end! But, ladies and gentlemen, lying always has close legs! Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, the government shows the direction it wants to take to get out of the crisis with society upright, with the support of those most in need. The same logic was used to provide financial support to the low-retirement workers from overcompensation. The same applies to suspending the increase in VAT on the islands of the North and Eastern Aegean, which, with their touching and unequivocal help, we are trying to face the refugee crisis. In the same spirit are the amendments to the OAED concessions - former EC - to the beneficiaries of labour residences, as are the abolition of the paradox in CEPOL for uninsured and deprived persons, with the defence of pensions and labour rights against the IMF's ideas and not just. These measures are of particular importance today, when negotiating for the second assessment is at a crucial point, which we must choose a path. If we choose the path of one-sided austerity and recession, which has undermined society, or a fair distribution of burdens and solidarity. The pressures on the wrong direction are strong, but the will of the government and society will prove stronger. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are asking you to vote on this bill, so that it can be seen that Parliament, with the greatest possible majority, supports the attempt of society to come out of the crisis with solidarity. A positive vote in this bill does not necessarily mean support for the government, but means recognition of society's efforts and sacrifices. The National Mechanism for Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Integration and Social Cohesion Policies is a project that the Greek state has been trying to implement over the past five years. The National Mechanism has been subject to consultation since 2012. It is planned by the National Strategy for Social Integration, a study carried out in 2014, processed, specialised in the second half of 2015 and submitted to the European Union to take its final form and adoption in June 2016. It reflects the government's priorities and objectives for tackling poverty and social exclusion. In drafting the bill, weaknesses in social care and welfare have emerged, such as fragmentation and overlapping of responsibilities, lack of coordination and transparency, and the lack of effective supervision of public and private sector bodies. The weaknesses and weaknesses of our political system, which have been accumulated for years, are creating conditions of plurality and inefficiency, a favourable climate for customer relations and privileged treatment. A characteristic example is that the seventeen institutions of the state grant a hundred twenty-fifths of five privileged benefits. The draft law under discussion is unified and will be certified through HICP. The final action plan was drawn up by the services and human resources of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and funded by the European Union, ensuring 59 million euros. The structure of the National Mechanism is organized in two levels, government and self-government. The Governing Council of Social Policy is the body which takes the final decisions concerning the National Mechanism. The central core of the National Mechanism is the Ministry's Directorate-General for Welfare, with both addresses and with six departments to serve the purposes of the proposed provisions. The above-mentioned positions may be filled by transferring or retraining of permanent officials or employees in relation to private employment of indefinite duration by bodies of the general government or the wider public sector. At regional level, the services of social care and regional Social Integration Observations of each region are integrated. Municipalities include the social services of the municipalities and community centres. They are set up for this purpose in two hundred and fifty-four community centres in municipalities over ten thousand inhabitants and are managed by seven hundred and fifty new recruitments by an AEP procedure. The role of community centres is also defined as a local point of reference and reception in each municipality, with continuous information, consultation and assistance for citizens. The Ministry of Labour shall cooperate with the relevant ministries on a case-by-case basis. Article 9 refers to the role and actions to be taken by the relevant ministries. For example, the Ministry of Education, which is working together to provide a solution with programmes to facilitate access for children and adult vulnerable groups to education. The same facility provides the Ministry of Culture, for easier access to museums and archaeological sites. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport will be responsible for free or with reduced tariffs for the movement of students and laundry by means of public transport. It is also laid down how the competent authorities will cooperate in the control and management of service programmes with the National Mechanism. The information system will operate in real time, both on a two-way and with the protection of personal data and includes three registries: the Register of Beneficiaries, where the personal information of the beneficiaries, the name, the VAT, the AMKA etc., the Register of Institutions, listed data of public and private bodies, and the Social Programme Register are recorded. Citizens' access to the National Geographical System is made in a simple, comprehensible and user-friendly way, with most of the fields attached to the e-card. It can be personally supplemented by the house, either through the Community Centre and the social services of the municipalities at e-mail address e-pronoia.gr for the citizen. Thus, with the start of operation of the National Mechanism, a powerful tool is created through the Geotechnical Information System, enabling the interested party to have direct access to information, with transparency and objectivity. The National Geographical Information System collects and processs information relating exclusively to social protection and stakeholders who have access to the personal data of the above systems must take appropriate preventive measures to ensure that confidentiality is not violated. Administrative penalties and penalties are also provided for in the event of infringement. Control and supervision of operations by both the administration and other public and private bodies contribute to modernising public administration to the benefit of citizens by allocating the funds available properly and fairly. Ladies and gentlemen, with the social income of solidarity we are seeking to deal with extreme poverty and social exclusion in mono-faced and multi-faceted households. It was piloted in thirteen municipalities in 2014, with controversial criteria, by the then government of Samaras - Venizelos, continued in 2016 in thirty municipalities, with criteria for unemployment rate, and continues in 2017 with universal application throughout the country. The funding of EUR 760 million comes from the state budget, without any advance allowances being cut that some might have expected, because the government has documented that there can be no cut when 0.5% of GDP required to finance the social solidarity income could not be saved from the very low pre-income incomes, which can be said to be just 2.1% of GDP compared to 4.1% of the European average. Its characteristics are the platform so that each interested party can determine in real time whether or not it can join the system, on the basis of its latest tax clearance and income criteria in the last six months. If, for example, a beneficiary of the tax declaration loses his job and his income falls below the poverty line, that is, below EUR 1,200 for the six-month period for a single parent household, he can address community centres and find out if he can apply. Social solidarity income is not just an economic aid to combat extreme poverty, it is accompanied by a combination of social care services for people with disabilities, unemployment and social exclusion, as well as measures to promote employment. In particular, 10% of those benefiting from social solidarity will be able to access the labour market through OAS programmes. The implementing provisions of Law No.4387/2016 provide for amendments, additions and transitional provisions for the more effective implementation of the rules of the functioning of the ECAI. The resolution of Insurance Law 4387/2016 makes an effort to effectively merge social security institutions into a body that operates with the same rules and procedures for all citizens. That is why all the relevant bodies have cooperated in order to capture the single body, which for the first time is not a simple transfer of individual funds, but is created, from the outset, with its own structures, adapted to the direction of equal treatment and effective service for citizens. In order to allow a smooth transition to the new venture for insured persons, employers and staff, a transitional phase is necessary until the Agency is processed by the Council of State and its entry into force. In the medium term, the Unified Social Security Institution will operate with uniform services for its basic functions, while maintaining the basic structures of the entrants. These services will also provide appropriate guidance to all regional centres. In order to ensure that the Single Social Security Body operates as a single body and not as an umbrella in the structures of the integrated funds. From 1-1-2017, in addition to the Directorate-General for Economic Services and Administrative Support, which has been operating since May 2016 and has a very important role in preparing the integration of entities into the Single Insurance Agency, they are structured and will work directly: the Directorate-General for Taxation and Control, the Directorate-General for Pensions, the Directorate-General for Health Payment, the Directorate-General for Strategy and Development, the Directorate-General for Information and Communication, the Directorate-General for Insurance and Employers and the Legal Service. With care of the Ministry, the training of staff has also been launched in order to be able to meet the new requirements and to successfully exercise their new responsibilities. At the same time, with the entry into force of the OLAF Agency, we have the services of the funds with the same structure and competence. In this way, there will be no confusion for the citizens, but time will be given for the incorporation, the placement of staff and the settlement of any outstanding issues. Article 59 allows freelance professionals, self-employed persons and farmers to pay part of their insurance contributions and to be charged only with legal increases for the remaining amount. Until now, they have had to pay for the entire insurance contributions, with the risk of not being able to respond and not being able to obtain insurance information. These amendments facilitate the insured and, at the same time, the insurance funds will collect insurance contributions. With this bill, the government creates an integrated system for dealing with poverty and social exclusion, which has hit our society with the policies of the memorandum. The whole of its provisions are part of social policy, at the same time modernises, organises and regulates most of the pre-innovative landscape, creating a clear environment for thousands of our fellow citizens whose access to social benefits is simplified. Apart from the financial support for those most in need, a mesh of intervention is created to help reintegration and easy and decent access to the prosperous system. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. That is why I call on you to vote for the bill with the greatest possible majority in order to send a strong message of solidarity to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Marios Salmas, Member of the Commission, has the floor. Mr. Salma, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law tabled by the government is a bill which has sixty-five articles in eighty-four pages and deals with two main issues. The first is a mechanism that oversees, supervises and regulates social inclusion. The second part is implementing provisions for the better functioning of the single social security institution. Before entering the draft law, I would like to make a few political remarks on the issues covered by today's bill. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about social inclusion and social policy and the treatment of social exclusion and the treatment of extreme poverty at a time and in a country that is going through and experiencing an economic crisis, which people, the citizens of that country who are subject to these conditions are constantly growing, we must not forget the fact that social policy and the sensitivity and the ability of the political system to benefit these categories have been a field of political and ideological confrontation in recent years. The current government had put up its political ideological position and debate the support of the socially-substantiated state. The question that arises reasonably before we get into the substance of the bill is: has the current government been able to create conditions and more favourable to society? Did it reduce the number of the poor? Did it reduce poverty or increase it? Has it limited the number of citizens living below the poverty line, which is supposed to be the EUR 4,500 per year, or has it increased the number of citizens living below the poverty line? Regardless of whether it is under political crisis, the government's trial to implement a policy, this does not relieve it, because the results and indicators of poverty and its economic policy are measurable. They are both measurable and the results and measures that this government has implemented in order to achieve certain objectives. No one disputes that this government has reduced pensions, major and subsidiary. No one disputes that the government has reduced the ESA. All this, when it happened, automatically carried a number of citizens' population to levels below the poverty line and many to levels of extreme poverty. The government has taken too many measures to remove resources from society either by reducing the social costs that I have mentioned before, or by increasing taxation, which unfortunately have not taken place. This is called "lost sacrifices of the Greek people". And the previous government took measures harder, but limited the deficit from 7% and zeroed it, seven percentage points. The government took measures of 9 billion, 6 billion for 2015 and 2016, which had no rate of efficiency in the budget, no place, unfortunately. Pensioners have seen billions lost from pensions and at the same time only a billion in the budget is seen as a reduction in expenditure. Why? Because hundreds of thousands of young pensioners were automatically transferred to the back of the insurance funds and are now being called upon by younger generations, with flexible forms of employment, which have been launched over the last two years, to take their backs in order to pay pensions. As much as there's a lot of tricks going on to happen, it can't be efficient. What do I mean, trick? The Single Social Security Institution was a trick. Why did not three insurance funds come up, and this was what the Civilian Opposition asked for? Because this has had to take the contributions from the self-employed and the farmers, the farmers and the contributions to the large fund together with the contributions from the IKA, so that pensions can be paid. But, as I will say then, this has also been done improperly and inefficiently. Therefore, if anyone wants to share wealth with the poor, he must first produce it. The current government cannot produce wealth, because it cannot escape the recession spiral and go to growth. Mr. Regling said that in 2017 to 2018 we will be back where we were in 2014 in favourable wind. In other words, all these sacrifices of the Greek people were lost. So, when you cannot have a positive sign in your development and when you have closed the banks and you cannot open them again and you have not been able to create conditions of political stability and cooperation and consensus, it is obviously difficult to get into a development cycle, how much more so when you are locked ideologically by prejudices, such as against the deprivations, which you have to do and implement policies, which the ministers themselves day after day say "we are applying them, but we cannot implement them". Thus, gold is lost at the DESCAs and one after the other is cancelled. At the same time we come to say that we also have an alleged surplus, which the Prime Minister gave as a social dividend to whom? To the retired people, to tell them he gave the 15th pension. While, in fact, what's the trick? They took 850 million of the main and ancillary pensions through 4% and 6% withholding, so that they could go to the EEA health sector. But a single cent didn't go to the EPPY's health branch. Not even the planned contributions of 4 billion -4.3 billion actually - that the EEAY should have received, did not take. So all of this money - 850 million - has kept and retained 350 million more of the debts with 5%, which you allegedly do for the services provided by the IKA to the EEA. So we go to 1.1 billion. You're going to cut out of time and another 200 million from the EEA. So we're going to 1.3 billion. The Prime Minister has now come to say that 'I will share with the retired'. But let's see how you shared that money. Is he fair? Are they to those who really have the greatest need? Oh, no. He gave it up horizontally to people already retired, and well he did. But, obviously, those who do not retire and are the poor, who only take 200 euros - and they are not all who take 200 euros - and who so far have been taking piles, have not taken anything from the Prime Minister from the social dividend. Is that fair? I am talking to people who have grown up with the idea of supporting poverty. Has the Prime Minister supported poverty in the way he shared it? Because a retired man who took 300 euros, and now he's gonna get another 300, he can have ten apartments. While the poor man in the piles who doesn't have fate in the sun, he doesn't get a single cent from this social dividend. So I've got a policy that doesn't have any individualization. The first point here - to get into the mechanism and the first two chapters - is that the term of social protection is completely removed, which means the subsidiarity of the state. In other words, the state chooses where it goes to support. Where the citizen can't handle it alone. In other words, it's coming as an adjunct. Second, personalization. I mean, I have every citizen I know of his need and I'm trying to support him with reintegration policies. And not just. With privileged policies. Minister, this bill is generally in the right direction, especially the first two chapters on the Social Integration Mechanism. The National Social Integration Mechanism is part of the National Social Integration Strategy, which was launched in 2012, finalised as a project in December 2014, intensified to the European Commission and adopted and considered hereditary for any funding of actions by the OPs in 2014-2020, which is necessary and co-financing by the European Social Fund. So it is obviously a job that you found from the previous government and we could not support it, despite the comments I am going to make to you and I did to the committee. In the second chapter, the social solidarity allowance - as you called it - is the minimum guaranteed income; it is a project, an initiative, which has the seal of the previous government, under the Minister of Giannis Brutsis and was also Mr Kegeroglou's State Secretary. This was an important reform and a seal for the country, which - even if you changed the name - you come to continue with it. It started with thirteen municipalities, went to the thirty municipalities and now you want to do it all over Greece. You must, however, have the political bravery to say that in 2015, instead of giving rations and housing allowances, you could have moved on quickly, without recurring, to the minimum guaranteed income - let me say it, since it is the same thing - that we have not wasted time and that we have spent two years of your policy and that we must now have to cancel the piles and the feeding and housing card and go where we started in 2014. I would like to make some comments in the first chapter, in the mechanism, subject to your commitment that you will be able to operate it. I don't want to be critical or miserable. I wish you'd work it out. But he is complicated and I am tabling to the House the complexity of the plan. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Salmas, presents a document on the Minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Creates overlapping, creates structures. In the centres that you have in the municipalities, the new ones that you will set up and call them community centres, obviously because you want to get some officials who can't hire the municipalities to social services - it's the NRP - to get employees you need to build new structures. You create community centres, but they will be up to 2020 and then they will be back in the air. At the same time you will have community and social services centres of the municipality, twinning, two services, with which the problem is still not solved, because there is no "Service of a Stasis". What's that? The citizen, who is in social exclusion, should go to a service and finish. In this service in the municipality get an OAED employee and an employee from any other service you want to go once and for all, man over there and finish. Why now what are you going to do? He's going back there, he'll be sent again, not the city's social service, but he'll be sent the community centre to the OAED, which OAED doesn't have any new integration policy. In theory we are good at saying that we should not give EUR 200 to the one who is under extreme poverty. We need to help him and reintegration him into work. But the bill does not provide for active integration policies. It has passive integration policies, benefits. Of course, in order not to be unfair, the fact that you will record the registers of beneficiaries, benefits received, benefits and pre-school institutions, public and private, is in the right direction. It is a good thing, and that is why we will of course vote for the first chapter and the second. In principle, we will support the draft law, proving something that must concern you and mature you. You see that the opposition, with so much political confrontation that we have and which we have called for elections, does not hesitate to a draft law based on our principles, which is a continuation of our policies, despite the weaknesses, to come and vote at first. Because that's what the place needs. That is, in fact, political consensus, so that we can move forward. The third chapter cannot be voted on, because the Single Social Security Act has become a slap in the right direction. What's he doing? What with dozens of pages does - more than a hundred - is to keep the services that existed in the OGA, the EAGF, the IKA and the other funds, roughly, fragmented and quickly and gets them in the last minute. I have not criticised you for the urgent procedure, which since May you have been late to bring it, because we are not confronted. But what are you doing? You take all the services, change them names, tags and keep them. Whatever was distorted in the old insurance system, you did not hesitate to transfer it to the new body you're building and it's a pity, because, since you're making it and you believe it, make it right. What did we do to EEAS when we took health and services from the other funds? We got the employees, we built the Agency of EEAS, we built the organogram, and we joined them there and they all worked. Everyone went to the service they needed. Now you keep as it is of the OGA and the regionals you call them to non-employers, to farmers of the IKA. It doesn't come out that way, it won't work. At the same time, you recognize that it will not work. Why? Because you say in the last article that all we are called upon to vote today will not apply when the single social security institution comes out. In other words, we will soon be called, if you bring it by law, or if you bring it by a presidential decree, we will have another body, which obviously will not have anything to do with what we are called today to vote on, and that is why we are not voting on it. The rest of you will see about the articles. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u25	It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-seven students and students and three teachers from the 1st PAAL Kamateros. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. The economic crisis that began in 2008 in our country and culminated with Greece's accession to a surveillance regime by international loan sharks has no stopping. Despite the hopes you have used during the election period and which have finally brought you to rule, we find every day your inability to stand by the Greek citizen. Are you bringing this bill, which is basically what it is? It is the admission of the humanitarian crisis in our country. A mere study of statistics is enough to demonstrate how inconsistent your economic and social policy is. At 46.1% of the unemployment among young people up to 24 years old and almost 1/3 of the population, of the unworked human potential, according to ELSTAT's latest figures, you understand that things are black, as our angered people say. After all, the percentages given by the recent polls are typical of the lack of confidence among our people. Now, if that confidence is taken by the Opposition, that is another conversation, but no one wants elections and everyone can call for elections. The question now is that the poverty line, according to the European Union, is at 60% of the average income of a country, that is, you are indirectly accepting, but clearly, that the average income in Greece today is up - down to 700 euros and that with very optimistic forecasts and with a lot of creative accounts. If average income is further reduced, which is not excluded, then the poverty threshold will fall further and be acceptable. It's a definition outside of reality. Of course, there is this "glass" built around the "development", "production", "enhancement of employment" and other concepts, which you are pulling from here, pull from there, without really knowing what this 60% means, what it really means to our world, to Greek citizens living with 300, with 384, with 400, and with 600 euros, what it means when the accounts run, when there are debts, when there are children, to try to make them out, to have basic needs and not to be able to fulfill them. What does it really mean to stand in the OAED line for that money, the employment support programmes, which will take you out for a five-month period from your misery and then shoot you back in to get back into your original situation? After all, who and how does it define poverty? Obviously not the poor. They're the last ones. Not those who live in everyday life, those who want to secure a roof for their child, the elementary for themselves, their family, their loved ones. Because poverty is not just to have no food. Poverty isn't just having no dress. Poverty is not being able to call a friend at home or not to go out for coffee. Poverty is not to be able to give your child to go to school, poverty is not to go on vacation to rest. Now you're gonna tell me we took their jobs, send them a vacation? That's right. What should people rest today? Their soul knows. Poverty is sleeping with a weight at night at your house and going to open the door to your shop and be bored. Poverty is to work with the skills you've never imagined you'll be busy. Feeling less human every day in your survival, in your everyday life. Destroy your dignity. That's poverty. And you don't have to take 384 euros. And with more than that, it's the same. But all this is going through us like it's normal, like there's a normality. We must not question them. We must accept them without protest. The tightening of the neck, inhumanity, everyday life, the nipple to be a one-way street. To be slaves. We're getting through this as a normal thing, something normal. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the great increase in unemployment in combination with the gaps in the social protection system have increased poverty in Greece. What exactly it is we do not know and it has changed - as we have said - over recent years. It has increased not only because the crisis is deep and prolonged, but because - and indeed the Ministry here has a right - there was no serious mechanism to help the incomes of the poor and the unemployed. But what they give now is crumbs, literally. The traditional downgrading of welfare to a poor relative of the social state is a frustration. Any serious state has always had a safety net for those who are suffering, for the poor, which has never been here. Not many days have passed since the Prime Minister of the country made a proclamation announcing the adoption of measures under this draft law, for the relief of supposedly retired people receiving a pension of up to 850 euros. In particular, from what comes out of the Prime Minister's dilemma, the grant of the financial aid will be given and distributed unsymmetrically. In other words, the more the pension is, the less the aid will be. We are talking about EUR 630 million in total. So with these crumbs, will you save the contributors from your austerity policies? Are you going to solve their problems with that? Now you're gonna tell me that the others probably had it, and they didn't give it. You're right about that. But is that how we solve problems? This is aspirin for cancer - we said so. It's obvious they're not solved. Unfortunately, however, you are trying to make fun of them once again, for reasons of purely voting. Others say you want to go to elections and others that you don't want to go. Is that how we play on the backs of the poor world? You bring in the form of the urgency of this draft law, entitled ‘National Mechanism for Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of Political Integration and Social Cohesion, Arrangements on Social Solidarity and Application of Law No.4387/2016 (A'85)’. It has sixty-five articles. The twenty-two articles provide for the establishment of the National Mechanism and the rest - the latter - it is essentially the update of the Katrugalo Law 4387/2016 in order to facilitate the transition from the old to the new insurance scheme. In addition to the other "satisfactions" you are also wicked. With a seemingly positive arrangement, we open a bill, but it closes with the legislative compliance of the insurance system that you agree and write during your Hilton meetings with our partners, so to speak. So, you expect a law we denounced, we come here to talk about it now, because it has some flaws on you and you want to collect them? It is necessary to mention that this is a study product that began to be carried out in the year 2014 when the Memorandum Governments that you, as eminent antimony, fought strongly were in place. Now that you're coming to continue their work. The study on the establishment of the National Mechanism was called a National Strategy for Social Integration. The three pillars of implementation concern the fight against poverty, the prevention and combating of children's exclusion and the promotion of integration. We must note, and that this is a Community commitment - the vote at present I mean. So do not mock Greek citizens that you are allegedly taking legislative initiatives for their relief. It is clear that you are obliged to legislate in accordance with the decisions of the institutions of the European Union. After the first reading of the articles of chapters I and II of the bill, it is now found that there is no doubt that the broad assumption of the humanitarian crisis, which is the result of the extermination of economic policy and the influx of millions of illegal immigrants and refugees in Greece over the last few years, is now being found. Unfortunately, this policy continues and its results are disastrous, we all see it. We also note that the establishment of the National Mechanism and the Directorates for Social Inclusion and Combating Poverty is necessary to absorb financial resources from Community funding. Therefore, you are setting up a national mechanism that in the end is nothing other than the necessary institutional guarantee of the government to draw EU funds from the European Union and in fact you are trying to baptize this legislative intervention as proof of your humanism and your humanitarian, social policy. The third chapter of the bill shows the update of the Katrugalo law on insurance. Everyone will remember, here, in this Chamber, the reactions that his resolution had caused to the wider labour spectrum. The largest scientific bodies have been operating for months not accepting the tombstone set by this law in their professional future. Workers, pensioners, saw their earnings shrink and their contributions increased. And bring this bill with supposedly arrangements for social solidarity. His conclusions have already been drawn by the Greek citizen for your ability to relieve him. When he hears that word he's creeping. There is no need for any further legislation to serve political interests or believe you when you say that you intend to support vulnerable groups. All Greeks are a vulnerable group right now, all together. We confirm that the majority of the Greek population is a social group that is vulnerable and the policies you choose make life even more difficult. You must revise as soon as possible. Otherwise, your Government will only bring problems to Greek society. For the fight against poverty, there are no structural changes, a new productive model or an educational or any other reform in any area. These are essential elements of a medium-term policy, in our view, to combat the general economic difficulty, the unemployment that is causing it and the emergence of the wealth produced. Meanwhile, people who are already below the extreme poverty line need support immediately, need support right now, right now! In this bill, the positive provisions are minimal. We shall be giving more attention to the debate on the articles. We will vote against the draft law at first, as this is a purely memorial bill and it comes to the bottom - under the scripture in complete contrast with our ideas, with our faith, with our attitude of life at national, social and economic level. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Koukoutsi. Mrs Eyi Christophiliapoulou from the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill which, it seems, will be more widely accepted. However, I have to start from general. The environment in which this bill is being discussed is gloomy. The evaluation is intimidated by an obstacle to an obstacle to a crisis. The so-called negotiators of the government of the so-called Left who have succumbed the property of the Greek people for ninety years in the superstate declare weakness. Mr. Tsipras two at two was lost, won by the Soible-Tomsen axis two at two. What seems to be happening is that not only the debt arrangements are pitiful and will be activated after twenty-five years, but that at the same time you have accepted the cut, but if you do not want to name the measures - we know which heads the cut will fall - and of course you have accepted no more than 2021. In the face of what is coming, the 2017 heavy budget, which you have recently voted on, also seems less heavy. But let us remember the environment a little, and what we voted the other day, what you voted for, namely. You have also voted for 2,4 billion weights, cuts and taxes on the backs of all who have so far, in your two years alone, suffered 7,2 billion meters, weights - that is what you voted - of which 1,6 billion - was - and they are adopted measures, weights on pensioners and insured persons, 750 million of which are pensioners, Mr Secretary of Social Security, including the abolition of the ESA, cuts on supplementary pensions, reductions on dividends on the Shareholder Fund for Civilian Workers, widows' pensions and goes on to say. Inside this bill comes the famous amendment of the so-called - and this is a lie - the third pension of the Prime Minister, which is obviously not a pension, he wanted to call it that. You get excellent in the "buffalo", excellent in the names. In the form of an amendment, therefore, this third pension, which is not a pension, came in the form of an amendment, but an average allowance of EUR 380. A total of 617 million are distributed to a million six hundred thousand pensioners and on average there this amount goes and is distributed accordingly, according to what you have given us. So we will not vote against this - but that is not the point - because we will not be like you. Because when in 2014, both pensioners and the unemployed and several categories of citizens were given money, you were squatting, fighting and even saying that it is not a surplus, but a secret deficit, because there is one billion dollars due. How late are there now? I respond to your arguments. But I'm not going to be more like you, because I'm going to vote for this poor allowance you're giving retired people. How is the increase in the time elapsed between 2014 and 2016? It's 60%! What is the increase in tax refunds for citizens between 2014 and 2016? It's 100%! I'm saying it because you guys were talking about secret deficits. Remember that! Of course, apart from this allowance amendment, there is another amendment which I am referring to now because it is a general one, Mr President, Madam President, and Minister. This is the amendment tabled by the Members of the PASOK Group - DIMAR - and I would ask all Parliament's wings to take a position - which calls for the irresponsibility of personal accounts to be reinstated at EUR 1,500 and for the protection of disability, prerogatives and all kinds of financial benefits to citizens or groups of citizens affected by natural disasters, as well as the benefits of ELGA or the benefits of PESA. This, Minister - and I would ask you and your colleagues to see this very well - is neither a pretext nor a populist. It's about getting the situation back where it was. It is a breath to the citizens and it is an important breath to the disabled, to the right to benefits. You handle them, Mrs Fotou, and I would ask you to strongly support our amendment as a relevant Minister or to bring some improvements to it, but it is enough to have your favourable opinion. Because this amendment, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it can be an essential breath for the citizens. Of course, it would be good if the Prime Minister were to go to other categories, such as single parent families and the unemployed. We should at some point discuss - and I have provoked and asked the Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs - that there should be a special debate on the care of the unemployed. I am now going to the main body of the bill, which is no longer the National Social Integration Mechanism. We would at least be hypocritical, ladies and gentlemen, if we did not vote on these provisions, because these are the provisions we have worked on when Kingdom Kegeroglu was in the Ministry of Labour. He processed them, discussed them with our partners and ahead of the NSRF and in view of the wider negotiation at the time and in December 2014, these provisions of the support mechanism were given a positive opinion. They are now coming in the form of a bill, and of course it is a good idea to try to implement it. We heard the Minister say yesterday that at the stage of application there will be the possibility of operating all electronic systems so that it actually goes to those who need it. I will not dwell on what the SYRIZA rapporteur said, 'we had implemented it', because he had started, you know, and the social solidarity allowance, which is the second big point we want to support in the bill, which was then called a minimum guaranteed income. Same thing. But he did say wrong criteria. All right! I understand that you have to justify this two-year delay, saying that it has had the wrong criteria. They were accepted. That's not the point. We will support these provisions, but of course we will also point out a few things. Minister, the provisions you have organized for your Ministry with the unification of the Social Protection Department, which was in the Ministry of Labour and the Welfare Department that was in the Ministry of Health and went to the other Ministry in another government, are positive. However, I would like to point out to you in Articles 7 and 8 a provision that you have in both articles, which is Rusphetti, if you do not change it and I invite you to change it. For of course we need to support this mechanism from some additional staff. He has to come quickly and can't wait for permanent staff. However, you put without any numerical restriction and without any criterion individual contracts with a Minister's decision, which, in the draft bill, the Minister's decision is not predetermined by which criteria it will be given, how it will be decided. I'm sure you'll do the best. Your successor or your successor what will he do? I know, you're gonna come here and say you're gonna get the worthy and the skilled. However, because there are phenomena and familialism and nepotism in your government, I will tell you that this is not enough for me, even if you assure me that you will get the best. So, for example, give criteria similar to those of recruitment in the Community Support Framework Management Unit at the "CMO S.A.". It's a proposition. I'm sure if we sit down, we can find more suggestions. Self-limit and limit your successor or your successor, because we have democracy and governments change. So this provision cannot stay the way it is. We will vote against the article if it stays the way it is. I want to call for her change. Now, in my short time, I want to deal with the provisions of Chapter 3. We heard them yesterday from the workers' representatives in both the IKA and the other insurance funds. The situation has been well described by one of them as administrative chaos. The previous Minister, Mr. Katrugalos, had taken the channels, in his loving habit, and said that these provisions would be implemented and ready. And I heard you yesterday, Mr Petropoulou, and many colleagues from Communism say that for the first time the rules will be uniform. Did you forget that the Law Loverdus - Kutrumanis had introduced uniform rules? But, of course, since it was the law of the previous, the memorials, the third and fifth and sixth and sixth memorials, how would they apply it? These are more memorial than us, so they had to bring in a more memorial law. And that single rule, I would remind you - and he for a form of national pension said - of a national pension and analogous pension. The same logic was used in this respect, but not in all other respects, not in this huge fund the monolithic. Because we had resisted - you know - the invoking - the Prime Minister invoked Mr Kammens yesterday, I do not remember - that we were told 'four'. We had resisted and said what common sense says, namely a fund for employees, a fund for freelance professionals, a fund for farmers. Seven months later, ladies and gentlemen, circulars have not been issued. It's in the "air" literally. The Circular on the widow's pensions has not even been issued, not because officials cannot, but because it is the law, it is such ambiguities that cannot come out in circular, quite simply. But the ax is dropping, that's all right. The market, Mr Minister, is also confused. At the moment that we are talking about the heavy income-related contributions that will be imposed on all - free traders, scientists, farmers, traders - we do not know yet and do not know how and what. And we've got 14 December today! And you bring the third chapter of the bill, which he's doing? It literally merges, smacks the existing mechanisms of the insurance funds on a monolithic thing, by law this agency passes without any processing. In fact - let us know - you have thought since 1 January of these new mechanisms, how will the pensioner be served, what will you do with the OGA, what will you do with the farmers? Are farmers going to travel to the county capital? Go where to serve? Have you anticipated that? Tell us how the insured will be served. We had voted against it and we are voting against it again. But we have been telling you since the Katrugalu law passed that this law cannot be applied in this respect. The cuts were made many times, despite the law, and many times by mistake and you sent letters to pensioners to tell them that 'all this was done by others', when we know very well that insurance over the two-year period alone was chargeable by EUR 2.3 billion. Finally, Mr Secretary, I expect you to explain to us what they have done - I insist - an additional contribution to insurance, which is the reason for the increase, and which are either not making use of heavy and unhealthy people or making use of them, but are insured with their own kidney failure or are parents of children who are incapable of work, with serious disabilities. You have to make that clear. We had a debate yesterday in the committee and we are waiting for your positions on this. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, we believe that the provisions of this bill, which are the provisions of social inclusion, are a continuation of our own policy and articles. Because I will not leave the good initiatives behind. The community centers were voted on, Mrs. Fotou. We had proposed a number of things, but we had voted for them, because we want to support the conception of a service to the poor. For these reasons, because it has instruments for positive measures and because it is a continuation of a policy that is necessary - there is a need for minimum income policy, for social income for all our fellow citizens - we are voting in favour of this bill in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u29	We continue with the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Christophilopoulou, like Mr Salmas, protests. You got the job for them! Indeed, they had done a significant advance, and you continue on the same line, so that you can serve what others are serving, the capitalist return, to get the capital back into the sphere of profitability. The bill is a Memorandum of Understanding, as you say. It is the direction of the European Union. So since it is also a commitment that all parties, other than the JRC, have made, which the third memorandum has also voted. Of course, all applicable laws included in the previous two are also implemented. In conclusion, the SYRIZA rapporteur invited us to vote on the bill by sending a message of solidarity to society. But aren't you the ones who voted in May for the law - looting for insurance, with a 30% reduction in pensions? Aren't you the ones who cursed the CSR from the most poor, the low pensioners? Aren't you those who have reduced the lower pension from EUR 486 to EUR 392, with the so-called Circular of Haikal, and now EUR 345 mixed for 15 years of work? Aren't you the ones who keep the middle-age employment created by New Democracy and PASOK, with flexible forms of employment, three hours, two hours, four hours, pay even 100 euros a month? Do you not maintain the minimum wage reduction at EUR 586 mixed, do you not maintain the anti-government laws that abolished collective labour contracts which introduced associations of persons, which together with the employer create conditions of hell and hunger wages? Do you not rob the people with taxes, taxes, taxes and favour capital with exemptions again? Didn't you reduce the unemployment benefit by justifying this reduction as an adjustment to the new reduced minimum wage? Do you not retain the conditions to receive an unemployment allowance, these conditions which exclude the large majority, so that only one 10% of the total benefit is subsidized by the OAS, of the one million two hundred thousand unemployed? This policy, gentlemen, creates poverty, the impoverishment of a large number of workers, self-employed and farmers, it creates the homeless, the undermining of children, it creates the unscrupulous suffering for the people. While all of you support this barbarism for the support of sacred and loyal capital, the gain, on the other hand you shed crocodile tears for your victims. You take their lives and give them to those who find it hard to breathe a little from their air, who are, anyway, very little and, of course, are led with mathematical accuracy to greater poverty. Today, in these circumstances, in extreme poverty, there is a 15%, In the context of the reduction of government budget expenditure, in the creation of the 'broken' surpluses that you have agreed, we have a corresponding reduction in the protection of workers, of the people, even though the state budget is created by the tax burden. And yet, the lion's share is given to the large monopolistic groups, which are engulfed beyond the gainfulness of the workers and the state budget, through a thousand or two ways. Asks Mrs Theanos Fotio: 'Why do you vote 'against' this draft law, since what she does is to create a mechanism? Should there not be a mechanism, knowing, monitoring what is going on, evaluating and taking corresponding measures and policies?' Is that the need for the mechanism? We say, of course, there is a need for the mechanism. No one opposes technology, technical science, provided that it serves the worker and the people. But to remind you, Mrs. Fotio. Was the CSDPs not a single mechanism, where the disability of disabled people was certified? So tell me how this single CSR mechanism evolved? It turned out to be a slaughterhouse for the disability rates of the disabled, as a pension slaughterhouse, as a slaughterhouse for whatever benefits. So it evolved. He was with the New Democracy, you kept him and you made a regulation even worse, which excludes many who cannot be on the job from the right to live. So, today this mechanism that you are creating is implementing what you have already announced, you have already committed yourself, the shrinking of benefits or their interconnection with the social solidarity allowance, the CRL.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Katsotis, I'm sorry for a two-second break. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting from the top Western theories is being attended by twenty students and students and two teachers from the "Morai" School of Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u32	This objective is therefore achieved by all the articles of the first and second chapters. You will ask: But do you not agree that there should be a single body, as he said? What are you guys doing? You connect this mechanism, the Ministry of Labour, the regions, the municipalities and any other body that makes social solidarity, which gives benefits, which strengthens those in need. And through this mechanism, we say that you will cut pre-school allowances and will end the social solidarity allowance, the EUR 200, that is, which is the limit to extreme poverty, as you have set it, so that a man can survive with EUR 200 a month that will get as aid. So, is there a solution? There is today a single body, for example. It's OAED. Could the OAED become this body that will protect the whole world, the workers, the populace, from this development? What does the labour movement claim? Whoever is unemployed is compensated with 80% of the minimum wage for the duration of their unemployment. If, therefore, the government had accepted this, there would be no need for a social solidarity allowance. The unemployed would receive the unemployment benefit because this system you serve does not give him a job. Dismisses, intensifies, and not at all. Also, another side is that you say 'We can't bring the 751 euros, because the conditions are such'. Five hundred eighty-six euros. 'Clean collective agreements cannot be allowed because they do not allow us'. Compounds of persons etc. So the request from the trade unions, which is EUR 751 minimum wage and no one is paid under that, could - is it a single government regulation - not lead the world to social income - also call it a 'equal solidarity' - solidarity of EUR 200? Of course, it could. Furthermore, a number of other issues that we want to say could indeed go in that direction. We have made the proposal for a law of the five hundred thirteen unions. We filed her. You're the one who's got it. You're doing the duck, that is. The New Democracy, Potami, the Association of Centrals, the Independent Greeks, the Democratic Reconciliation did not have a debate, even though the trade unions' proposal was also tabled to these parties. So, what do you say to the trade unions? That we're not accepting your requests. What can really satisfy needs from now on and beyond the workers themselves and other people's strata. So, can you implement these proposals now? These do not require overthrowing the form of organisation of the economy, as I said yesterday, of the social system to be implemented. But what? They are taking back the main policy you have today. Who's that? Create the conditions, the friendly environment for a cheap workforce for big capital, so as to increase the average profit rate, because it is a prerequisite to earn the parked capital it has to put in the production process. So that is what you want to do, and that is why you refuse to implement what we say, which are aspects which could actually be implemented. So we in chapters one and two in all his articles and in chapter three, which I shall say now, say 'no' in the bill and in the articles and in the first place. As regards the issues of third chapter relating to the specialisation of the Katrugalo Law. We've described him as a law, a law, a loot. Not just us. Now those who had some objections are absolutely convinced that this law put the tombstone on what we call the social character of insurance and proceeded to the return of the system with what it means to protect the job stunts. What does that mean? That if he has the fund, he'll give you it. And the state budget goes hand in hand by constantly reducing its support or participation in the financing of the insurance system itself, as is, of course, the reduction in the participation of the employer itself, the so-called employer's participation, with the reduction in their contributions as a whole, but also with the large undeclared work, the great evasion that so far is 25% -30%. What, then, does Chapter three, from Article 23 to Article 65? So it applies aspects, it consolidates the funds. Unification, of course, has one condition: everyone goes down. It makes the Single Social Solidarity Agency, the EVA, and here there have been serious concerns among all the workers in these funds, because in previous law it writes about 'accidentally surplus personnel', which is surely through a merger, unification, there will be surplus staff, as the workers say. There is a very great concern among the workers about their fate. We also asked the committee, and we ask the Minister, in plenary today, to remove the 'excessive staff' from the previous law and to ensure the work of the workers, to run all of what they need to do. There are four hundred thousand pensions coming out, and they have not yet come out, the ones are not given. As a whole, since 2013, no one has been given a single. These must be run in order to satisfy all pension beneficiaries, one-off and the other. As far as the amendments are concerned, we will also talk tomorrow. However, there has been a very great debate on the amendment that comes to implement the Prime Minister's announcement on the one-off payment of pensioners and not on the tenth pension, because you are writing in the amendment 'exclusively for 2016'. So what you're writing is like telling the Prime Minister "What are you talking about for a tenth-third pension? Here is an aid.' So if you really want to give a third pension, we have made an amendment. It is now an amendment from the JRC, which provides for the reintroduction of the third and fourteenth pensions. And we call on the parties here to vote for the amendment we tabled as a JRC. So we expect to see what your position will be on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u33	SYRIZA will vote for it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u34	He wants a General Accounting Office of the State, what you're saying. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u35	It's the reinstatement. Mr. Philie, it's a reinstatement of the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u36	Mr Katsotis, tomorrow you will be defending her for a long time. Thank you. The special speaker from Potami, Mr Konstantinos Barriotas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the greatest problems and conditions that this country has over time and its governance is the well-known backwardness, which combines perfectly with populism. That is to say, the logic on the one hand, on the one hand, of the government, of the occupation of power and the public fund and of its management, on the other hand, and, on the other hand, of the creation of power systems and, on the other hand, the formation of pressure groups, which are precisely aimed at it, namely, the secondment of public revenues without criteria. So traditionally the Greek governments have appointed, built, distributed money according to their electoral needs and not the needs of the government. This was done by paying the world, essentially comes from a Balkan middle ages and prevailed in the 20th century to be called "caniyannism" by the well-known great opponent of a very great modernist, Charilaos Trikoupis. In today's days it has gone a long way and, unfortunately, the Greek State has not been able to get rid of it. I only remind you of those great pentokills, hair and ten thousand shared after the fires. And I am, unfortunately, obliged to link the amendment on the third part of pension to that logic, because it is, in fact, precisely what this is all about, dispensing remuneration on the basis of electoral criteria and, in the light of the change in government image in polling and nothing else. It was never so obvious, in fact, because the source of the surplus this year is last year's overtaxation, the reduction of the same pensions that are being subsidised. So, we get a ten out of the retired's left pocket, and we return to him on the right thirty cents after a year. That's excellent sense! Of course, where he returns and how he is concerned only with what the government considers to be, obviously, a privileged intervention area and a privileged group of influence. I wouldn't want to bother you, but just think about the image of two unemployed people with two children, without any income, in 2 Athens, who come to Christmas and can't even heat their home and ask yourself: Why not? And then add many examples. In a Greece which is plagued by the crisis, there are more than many people in need of aid. Just ask yourself who lives harder, the couple, the family I told you or the pensioner with 850 euros, who will get some income and will do well. No one has any objections to someone's taking. But why don't they go to the winter health? Today the WTO representatives built the ministry's door. I really agree with you that this is a very bad practice, which you have been using for years, but at universities. In any case, it really is a terrible tactic, but it shows a huge problem in the liaison offices that has been in existence for many years. Why not go a place or all the money to health? Why not go to social welfare? Why not go to forty thousand things? Because Santa Claus has to give gifts and the government is Santa Claus who presents her subjects with that logic. It has nothing to do with capitalism, socialism and the functioning of the state in capitalism, which Mr Katsotis said earlier. It only has 'nepiiyanism', with an unbearable populism, and it is essentially a deep contempt for pensioners who are regarded as fools, who are picking up and reacting accordingly. Think about reason. She's unbelievable! I don't think anyone's stinging anymore. I hope so. Unfortunately, this same logic of populism, the vote, exists throughout the government. Revenue management. We found 60 million. As Mrs Fotou said yesterday in committee, 60 million were approved, and we need to absorb them, we need to proceed with the appointments. We should do them. This is poverty management. But that exists throughout the entire operation of the government. So we are bringing a bill that is most unprecedented - and we have said it yesterday - creating a mechanism which I doubt it will ever work, because we have to absorb money, funds and run in December, so that we can be ready on 1 January. One colleague pointed out yesterday the very low and pretext, as he himself described it - not me - in the hearing of bodies in the view that neither the bodies had come nor the debate that took place was particularly profound. And that has to do with the urgent procedures. Instead of finding out where and where, it is good to see what we are voting on again and how. These procedures, by which most of the bills are passed in the Committee on Social Affairs and not just, result in the very obvious result that about half of the Members have objectively not understood what they are voting on. I think that the whole issue here is more general - this is a sideline unrelated to the bill - and it has to do with an outdated Rules of Procedure, which does not help to debate in depth the bills and which at some point has to change. It's something we need to see. The establishment and operation of the national mechanism - to pass the bill itself - is a Memorandum of Understanding, a commitment by the Greek State since 2014 to create a mechanism to monitor the chaos of privileges. It's getting rough, at the last minute, and the feeling we have is that no one is interested in implementing any of this. Just, as I said before, it is an attempt to open the code and start running money. Where he's going is another job. It is also a good example of how a good idea can really be buried by a bureaucratic logic, which is inherent in the Greek State and which continues to create the same problems. So the law, in our view, composes a bureaucratic dinosaur with ten parallel piles, with social committees, observers, all they will do is, although and when they are set up - because this is also a problem - they will start to collide with each other or create applications for more papers and documents, as is usually done in the public sector. Of course, the substance is achieved in Article 7 and 8 with new jobs. I shall table a study we have done as a Potami, which shows that in twenty-four laws, that is to say, about a third of the laws that this government has passed, there are hundreds of twenty new structures of all kinds which provide for new jobs. Many problems exist in the Greek state that never had a problem with a few agencies and a few structures! I guess he had the exact opposite, and that's where we're headed. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Bargiotas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So the positions - very briefly we have said - are thirty-nine of the new organic positions that are being set up. Please report to Law 4440 on the secondments. It's the law that was passed the day before yesterday. I neither voted for him nor for him, but it is a disgrace for the parliamentary procedure within a week to vote for a Mobility Act and the next law immediately to look forward to a different type of mobility than the one envisaged by the previous one. At least respect what you vote on. We said 'positions and positions' and said the world-wide introduction of digital technology reduces jobs. It makes things easier, cheaper and faster. We have the exact opposite example here. And to answer Mrs. Jufi who told me the other day 'but not to do the recruitments', the answer is that one of the biggest problems that the whole system has, is usually the ratio of capital, the percentage of money spent on the end user and this is directly linked to the way the mechanisms work and the trend that are proven and studied to start becoming more and more accurate and to absorb the money they have to give to the beneficiaries themselves. So the answer is that using digital tools, which I will comment on immediately afterwards, the mechanism must be as cheap as it can and as tight as it can, so that it does not absorb the funds it must go there. So the answer to the seven hundred fifty seats is to do it, if necessary, and we will see if they are needed. But we must always bear in mind that costs are important and must be as low as possible. Now, for digitals, as I said yesterday, I was even more confused with Mr Tagaris, the President of IDEC yesterday, who very clearly described what I was saying in committee: a modern digital system for data import, automatic crossing and creating registries, which has nothing to do with anything, but nothing to do with what is described in Article 20. Article 20 describes something completely different if it describes something. I hope at least you will let HICP, indeed, continue to make what it does, which it should normally be in Article 2, describe how digital mechanisms are, how computer platforms are, and how the services are buttoning around. We have the opposite here, which is, as I said, 1990. It's not helpful. The digital system is the mechanism. Everything else could be missing, cheaper, faster and simpler. But we said, management of 1950, and the demand for new positions and new arms that derails this type of effort and refers them to the bells. I did not receive an adequate answer from anyone, at least in my opinion, about what e-pronoia.gr was delivered a year ago, because it is ignored and why, in any case, if it does not do the job that it was created, it is not abolished. Because we have to legitimise it in retrospect, since it will be practically ignored and it will create another. It's a big question. If there's a problem, and that's the way it is, let's discuss the matter and refer it to the prosecutor. Here we have an expenditure and a function which, in the previous article, is essentially abstracted by the creation of a parallel mechanism. There's no answer to that, I don't understand why this is happening. Minimum guaranteed income. Finally, social income of solidarity. The first bill in the Committee on Social Affairs concerned, as you all remember, the humanitarian crisis and its treatment. The only political bodies, who then abominably refused to discuss the expansion of the social income of solidarity, were the government. We were all talking about trying to convince you that the way to deal with extreme poverty is to extend the minimum guaranteed income, as was then called. We were then talking about the development of a mechanism which can manage in a uniform way all the privileged ones and can also handle the mechanisms to support the reintegration into work, and so on, that is, what you are going to do distortably and slickly - look at now with this endless law. You then basically insisted on the perpetuation of subsidised policy with the old-fashioned criteria, which I was saying at first, but which, now, you discover at last and nobody knows how much it is, nobody knows how much it gives, nobody knows who it takes. That is the mechanism, which responds, only it took us two years to agree, at least in the first place, that this must be and the pressure of the European Union has, unfortunately, been required to do so. Why not hide, the adoption of this measure, and the bill and the measure, are memorandum checks - otherwise you would not - and we should have done so, and we should have continued where they had already stopped since spring 2015. We shall vote on that. I'm doing a parentheses. The bill is not going to be passed. And we will not vote for it because we will stop voting for good option, which is not discussed, is not processed, they are not tabled in time and in fact they do not do the job, which they claim they do, because they are inadequate, azamikan or many times and evil. So in order to vote for anything from now on, there will be a need for normal debate, for the law to be thoroughly developed and not to be found by ambiguities, such as this one. For the social income of solidarity. We shall vote for it, however, because we are in favour of it over time. However, the questions remain: will Ideally be ready for 1-1-2017 to implement the system that it develops? Are we going to let HICP operate it, as Mr. Tagaris described yesterday? Is there money for 2018? Would this famous surplus, which emerged from the overtaxation of the Greek people, be more correct from a redistributive point of view to go to support the social solidarity allowance and not become a confed Christmas for micro-party reasons? Another question. Answer your own, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple. Mr. Petropoulou, the first legislator to be delivered to the Greek secretariat - a) is not Mr. Petropoulou here - on the border of the myth, his name was Zaleucus, to the Epizefirians of Lower Italy. One of the things that myth says is that Zhale's legislation actually provided for the fact that anyone who went to the market was proposing to change existing law or new law, go with a nipple hanging in the neck and rejecting the law dragged the death sentence. I do not think that the death penalty is a good one, but a penalty for this endless reform of laws, amendments from week to week, and for changing the laws, which you themselves are voting on at the speed and the extent to which it is done, would be good at some point to enter. It would, at least, save us from the manipulations and the inability to legislate properly and seriously. The last part of the bill is essentially the revision of the law, which was passed in May. For me, the unification of EVKA is one of the biggest reforms in Greece and which, in six months' time, not only is being revised, is actually going to the bells, because what was evident, that the depth of the Greek administration and the ruling party is not such that it allows for the revision, consolidation of the organization within six months. It was from the outset an objective of exaggerated and exaggerated. It may have been sold to the troika as a major reform, which is not done, because what is being done is to rename IKA services to the services of EKA and create the well-known "tree" on which we have boards at the top and boards below, and as I said the other day, no chair will change the office, no worker will cooperate with anyone and no unification will take place at any level. As we have said, the single benefit regulation, which is going to come out, is going to come out. And the new organization of the EVA is still pending, and I am very afraid that they will be pending for a very long time, because I heard Mr Petropoulos again yesterday in the committees assuring that all this will be done, except that I did not hear a timetable and I am very afraid until the next time the Troika demanded the integration of the funds, we will continue in the same way as we have always been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u38	Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos has the floor from the Independent Greeks. We're going to close up with Mrs. Big housekeeper from the Centro Association, and then the Minister will take over. Here you go, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Some ten years ago, George Soros - not because he loved the social state but for the sake of self-preservation - wrote a book published by "ELEVERROTYPTIA", which is no longer there, entitled "The Crisis of Global Capitalism". He said that we are so compressed by societies, that at some point there will be an explosion and our branch will break, which supports us, that is, the extremist capitalists. Twenty, thirty years earlier, President Kennedy's financial advisor, father Galbraith, then advised the Pentagon hawks to give the debts to both South America and the African countries - and they took him for madness. He was trying to convince them that you're going to be a boomerang, because these people are born alive-dead. You have to do something for them too. Fifty years earlier, Conrad Lawrence wrote the eight deadly sins on the planet, where he predicted that this course of capitalism will sooner or later have consequences and one of these will be the massive movements of populations. Fifty years earlier this book had been written, and we are living on our side today. Socio-state: a word that gradually disappears from all countries. It was built somewhere after the French Enlightenment and it was based - one would say - for several years, at least in European countries. Today I fear that we have reached the other end, in the constitution of the market, which we are living on today, where the financial structures on the one hand and the incredible supranational businesses on the other have despised the Enlightenment and the things that ancient Greek democracy taught and consider them to be funny. They are almost indifferent, of course, if they are crushed, not millions, but billions of people in the world, from the lack of the social state. Does this have to do with this bill? Before I arrive today, I would like someone to advise Mr Tomsen, who writes, to look at the latest report by EUROSTAT - not Greek, is European - according to which our country is last in poverty. In other words, in the approach of the zombie, which is called poverty, Greece is almost last in the twenty-eight countries of the European Union. That is what EUROSTAT is saying now, recently. He reads these things from what I hear. I, in fact, don't chew my words. Mr. Sabelle's petty child is Mr. Thompsen. For those who don't know, every time we went and met Mr. Shoeble, he came out or walked through the other door, Mr. Thompsen. That's all we can do. Today we are in the face of a harsh reality, the news of which is neither too much nor too much to do with what the Greeks, that is, going through or what the latter have been through, not only six, seven years - an extreme case - but also the previous ones. I hear things in this Chamber too. No one triumphantly deplored what the Prime Minister said three, four days ago, that this surplus has been made available to those who need it. Could it be better disposed? Yeah. I agree with the JRC's proposal to restore the 15th pension. First of all, it's not a third pension. I want to be exact. It's a little temporary help for a year. I will agree with the JRC and would like it to be able to establish this and come back. We owe it to these people. Likewise, what the Minister does today for about seven hundred thousand citizens. Is that something terrible? Is the problem solved definitively? Oh, no. It is, however, a positive step. We sat down and saw it and built the structures and a skeleton. And it's a little oxymomile to hear from people who ruled the country forty years, with alterations in power, come and give advice. Okay, it's a right to criticize. But you have to do your self-criticism. The people who arrived here who arrived are the same people who removed 25% of the income of Greek citizens, the same people who threw the country into poverty, in this extreme case and reality, give advice. They're accepted. In order for advice to have credibility, however, I think you should do your self-criticism, just as we should do our self-criticism. No one said we were having a good time. Oh, no. No one said we didn't make mistakes. We did. But one thing we won't do and we won't be allowed to do it. And I think we're inexperienced. I've been through it many times. And I don't know if I'm the only one who's talking about it. I think that's what others call it. But to correct ourselves and not to function in this Chamber with reasonable netting. He's been pouring too much poison, a lot of bile, a lot of psychiatry in the last few days for what the Prime Minister announced four days ago. We know that the people who spilled this bile and so on will come to vote for it, because they know that a poor man who gets 400 euros, 500 euros needs to get another 500 euros at Christmas time. Why so poison? Make your criticism. But why is that micropsy? And I hear and I hear again. Did anyone say that this thing solved problems? For God's sake. It was necessary to do this. It had to be done, and it happened. I don't have much to say. The structure of this bill, at all levels, I believe it is unprecedented. I disagree with a speaker who says it's complicated. It's not complicated at all. It's very simple. Yeah, it's hard, but I think it clears the scene at all levels and gives a chance for the first time, after many decades. I'm sorry to say it, but there was no welfare in the country. In other words, what else should we see in the congregations, the municipalities, the homeless, the dumpsters. Now, don't hide. We know that half the population of Greece is now almost reaching - I will not say extreme poverty - but the poverty line. The middle class is broken up. Unfortunately, the programmes proposed to us have reached us there. It's our fault. No objections. We had a civilian staff who was under the circumstances. We've gone to over-finance. We've done incredible things for a long time. That's what they get paid for. It's our fault, too. And when I say 'we', I mean all of us: the trade unions and the government have a degree of responsibility. And it's not bad to say it. To end this story, because we have a great need today, as ever, for another course. What do I mean? We cannot afford these surpluses, which Mr Siomple or Mr Thompsen is asking us to do at the moment. They can't. They never vote. They are leading definitively to the total poverty of the country. It is forbidden 3.5% surpluses until 2018. Crying agony all together in this Chamber and stopping mistaken setbacks. We've all made mistakes. Leave now who did the biggest. The Greek citizen will judge us. We must go like a dungeon. The negotiations are going on now that we are talking. She's on her way. It's not over. We remind each other once - we put myself in - some who have fun on a raft that will soon fall into Niagara. What's that thing? It has a great strength to negotiate if all the parties in this House are to say that this surplus, gentlemen, which you are asking for, cannot be achieved, does not pass. There are no new measures for a society that is poor in 50%. It's a call of anxiety. I am the last wheel of the wagon in this parliament, but I think the country can go forward. I would even welcome many things, in fact, Article 24, for the electronic signature, which was voted on by almost all parties and Article 8 of another bill for one stop, which was voted on by all parties. I could invoke more. And I think it is good that today the Minister's bill, no matter how much they grumbled and did, and that will largely be voted on by most people. I welcome these things, and I think that somewhere more seriously we should unite and end this situation definitively and irreversibly. Another tough criticism, another opposition and another country over the parties. As far as the bill is concerned, I'll say three words. Seven hundred thousand people are favored. Some, about six hundred, S.H.I.E.L.D. workers will find a job. Observations are held in thirteen regions. And I was pleased yesterday to see the representative of the regions that welcomed it positively. Two hundred and fifty-four points are created throughout Greece at the level of municipalities and I see cooperation with eleven ministries, all social services. Nobody said, nor Minister, that we solved it. That's what we can do right now, and that's what we're doing. It is a very positive step for a part that we owe them. I'll say it again. Especially us, who are ruling, did not send us either the industrialists or the shipowners. I have nothing with the two classes, I respect them, and I appreciate them. The people suffering and having a sacred obligation for these people have been sent to us so much trouble over the last six to seven years - this little beginning to get flesh and bones and to sit together and work together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u40	What about me in the end, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u41	Wait a minute. The Minister will talk. We will start alternately with a parliamentary, two - three speakers and after speaking five - six Members, the State Secretary will also be involved. I mean, don't fall out of the two Ministers together. Here, Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I can no longer count on how many bills have been passed this year as urgent or urgent. But I know for sure that this process has become common now. At least today we are talking, even under pressure of time, about dealing with poverty in our country. The first chapter of the bill deals with the national mechanism for combating, effective social inclusion and social cohesion. But let's not have any delusion. This mechanism has been our obligation for years to European cheques. What has also been analysed in committee on my behalf and I would like to point out to this House is the absolute need, on the one hand, to protect the people who have been on the margin, but, above all, to bring them back to the pretext as quickly as possible. So what needs to be pointed out is that, for those who are suffering and are characterised as newly-populated, that is, people who have been hit sharply and hard by the economic crisis, we must ensure that the state in whatever form - whether it is a ministry or a region or a private person under the supervision of the state - is looking for our fellow citizen, who is marginalised, impoverished and often has exceeded the limits of depression, this man who, until now, has been well integrated and now destroyed by the crisis. We should find him and help him, not wait for him to ask us for help. Sometimes because of despair, sometimes in the name of dignity, and sometimes because of ignorance, those of our fellow citizens who live on the sidelines cannot find the way to those structures that will initially help them to stand on their feet and then reintegrate them smoothly into society again. So what we are proposing as a general direction and politics is that in marginalized and homeless you cannot offer a website online to apply and receive an allowance, not to the poor and the most indebted, who does not have any power either. I have already proposed to the committee the creation of a four-digit number, which will provide clear and certain information to those who lack the basics. However, it is a question of all those who work in the global social services to look for, ask, learn and insist on finding our last fellow citizen in need. A major issue for the socially excluded, which European policy has now accepted, is reintegration through work and employment. In fact, solidarity with the fellowman, who has collapsed because of the economic crisis, is very important in order to help him overcome the first problems, to feel that he is not alone and to feel that the state is here to help him. It should - and rightly is involved in the bill and the OAED - be able to return to work or any employment as soon as possible, even voluntarily at the beginning, or at a very small price, or with OAED programmes or with local authorities' programmes for social work. People have to gain work experience, stay active and return to normal life as soon as conditions allow them. Unfortunately, I did not see a clear political orientation on this point from the study of the bill. Indeed, the OAED is, indeed, in the intentions of the OAED Commander. However, we expect to see, in substance, how many and how many actions and programmes of the OASD are going to run for the social groups, so that we can see whether a serious task is to be done and not just once more about the problems of unemployment. The third issue of the bill, which concerns me, is the total lack of know-how of the municipalities and their employees and the lack of real strengthening of municipal structures by the central services of the ministries on issues related to this bill. You ask the local government to participate in a project, while we know that there are municipalities that are totally incomplete, not only by qualified staff but generally by staff. I would like to continue to inform the House of some of the concerns I have in the individual regulations. The bill includes vague concepts such as ‘social phenomenon’, ‘extreme poverty’ and Article 14, next to the arithmetics, the words ‘overcommitted households’ are also recorded. The wording of this article is so broad and restrictive that I wonder how the relevant Regional Observatory official will understand exactly what phenomena he will monitor. Obviously extreme poverty is not always consistent with the concept of overdue households. Obviously, a single parent family may have more demands than a highly indebted household and, respectively, a long-term unemployed person is at the same poverty limits as some super-elves with a reduced pension. We therefore need to be careful not only in order not to create misunderstandings but, above all, in order to implement the legislation properly. With regard to Article 22 and social income of solidarity, this aid is indeed extended by the bill to all municipalities and, admittedly, it will be a small breath for all people who have almost zero incomes. This, of course, does not mean that the social income of solidarity solves all the problems. On the contrary, I think it is the least we should do for the real reintegration of all the people who live within the limits of poverty. Also, it is clear that a more flexible way of dispensing social solidarity income must be provided for, including everyone, who is entitled to it, but those who have not made a tax declaration. A man or family who has reached the limits of impoverishment and is hosted by relatives, friends or acquaintances is extreme to ask them to produce a cleared tax statement. A key element of a lack of the bill is a realistic and confirmed timetable for actions. The whole spirit of the draft law on better control of resources and poverty is in the right direction. But given that technical education is necessary and there is a lack of staff, how can the law be effectively implemented? Indeed, my fundamental concern is that we have become accustomed to the adoption of laws, and after a while they have been abolished in practice, because public administration has proved unable to cope with and implement them as it should. So, Minister, you need to set a clear timetable here. Beyond the Observatory of Poverty, we also have an observatory of the results of the Poverty Observatory. There will constantly be not only how many poor people have benefited but also how many after the solidarity plan worked and benefited from OAS programmes and, at the end of the day, how many poor people have ceased to be poor and have returned to tolerated social levels. That would be a success. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, I must also inform you of the positions of the National Confederation of Disabled Persons, which it considers necessary to draw up distinct strategies for disability, at regional and national level, whose priorities the national mechanism should take into account, on the basis of their very structured proposals, which have given us at the stage of discussion of the draft law on committees. Indeed, people with disabilities need special attention and, in view of their increased needs, the state must have a more specific planning for socialisation, financial support and reintegration. In the last chapter of the bill, I wish to remain in Article 28 for the abolition of the so-called 'applicable'. It is obviously a matter of our commitments, but we need to see what happens with EUR 1.8 million a year, which is lost from its abolition, and how they will be replaced, because ultimately this is an unpredictable amount, which will be deducted from the annual budget revenue. At a later level, the implementing provisions of the Katrugalou Law, which are contained in this bill, are of particular importance. It has already been several months since the insurance vote. However, the bill with its applicable articles comes only 15 days before its implementation. I wonder whether the public mechanism will be able to cope with the huge volume of work that awaits it. The ECA will collect for the first time all the insured and all the individual insurance funds. This means that he will manage a huge number of insured people from the outset, who will have questions, require answers and pressure the FBI's employees for clarification. However, from what I read from the press and from what I have from the experts, those who will be invited to implement the legislation await the necessary clarifications. I am sure that it is excluded in seventeen days that the insurer is ready to operate fully and without problems, not only in organisational and operational terms but also in fact in relation to the implementation of legislation. In addition to all the things I have analysed for the socially weak, we should not overlook and forget that the Greek economy - and what remains of it - is moving and there is, for the sake of small and medium-sized enterprises and free trade. The bill, therefore, clearly provides that from 1-1-2017 and on the basis of the new insurance, all freelance professionals, the self-employed and the farmers will have to pay their insurance contributions every month now. Let me remind you at this point that many pay every two months, while other charges pay once a year. So change is really great. And I am not referring above all to a professional's difficulty in making the necessary financial management so that he can now have the amount needed for his contributions every month. The main problem lies in the fact that in the event of delay or partial payment, there will be increases and interest every month. In fact, this seemingly small change, in relation to the enormous experience we experience every day, is already a given that it will cause great consequences. And for the truth, the General Accounting Office of the State expects an increase in revenue from the fact that professionals will be unable to pay on time every month, because there will be monthly imposition of increases and interest on non-preferentially paid insurance contributions. We must not forget, however, that in the last five to six years, the free traders have sworn a large part of the economic collapse in their jobs, and their own employment survival is under threat every year. In fact, one of the constant requests of many professional organisations is to freeze the contributions to date, so that the free traders can start paying their current contributions. However, since no legislative initiative has been taken so far in this direction, unfortunately - and I do not want to be a precursor of bad ones - I take the view that a very large number of free professionals will not be able to pay any time every month and eventually we will see the incubations launched and the anticipated revenues of the FBI collapsed. Finally, with regard to Amendment No 796, which relates to the announcement by the Prime Minister of the so-called thirteenth pension, we consider, firstly, that it is important to redress the injustices and, in particular, the injustices suffered by our weakest fellowmen, such as the low pensioners. However, it is clear that as a whole, this bill cannot solve essential issues such as the time of increasing the poor and marginalized Greeks and their daily struggle for survival. That is why the bill is sufficient to manage the mixed situation. In our country over recent years, it has been extremely sad to see the figures reflected, such as the harsh reality of 3.8% of our fellow people living in poverty and social exclusion. And similar horrifying figures are for child poverty in Greece. This picture makes us all sad. However, compassion, grief and tears are no longer enough for what is happening around us. We all have to move from theory and words to actual action and do the change that we all see is required. Our country and our people demand vertical areas in the system and a different and fair approach to problems. Only then will we be able to talk about the real treatment of poverty, the impoverishment and the enormous difficulties experienced every day by the Greek and Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u43	We are done with the rapporteurs and the speakers. The Minister is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Two are the issues we are discussing today. We are discussing social security policies, which exist within this bill. It is Article 22 with the social income of solidarity, the amendment on pensions and specific amendments. On the other hand, we are discussing a tool, the mechanism, which does not exercise policies, simply sorting out the data of policies in a transparent and clear way, accessible to each citizen and transparently. I would like to say a little bit about the history of politicians and about the lot of noise that is being done to boost the low-pension workers. Listen. I was asked by the rapporteur of the New Democracy: 'Did you finally reduce poverty? What have you done with the different social policies from us?" You know very well that the evidence we have about the poverty of EUROSTAT is 2014, when you delivered the government. Unfortunately, the evidence is overwhelming. We were last - and we are still, because this has not changed - the family benefits in Europe. We're talking about a 0.4%. We are last in Europe twenty-eight. We give 2.1% of GDP for social policies, for all social protection. That's what we received. We were almost one of the last in Europe. What has Europe done all these years since 2014? He set targets for the disappearance of extreme poverty, unemployment, etc. What's happened today? Today we have the evaluation of Europe's policies in June 2016 throughout the European area. So what does EUROSTAT say? It says that all indicators have failed throughout Europe. Nothing, from what he had set as targets, was not implemented. There is now a big problem here, when all this confrontation takes place for the EUR 450 million social dividend that came out of the previous government and how it gave it to the EUR 600 million. Mr. Brutsi, if you don't listen to me, you won't be able to answer me. Mr Katsotis laughs with understanding. He was also given privilege....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u45	Leave your comments to the Bureau, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u46	So I say that EUR 450 million is a completely different case, because it was not for pensioners but for three categories of citizens. It was first of all those who had an income of up to EUR 6 000 per year, namely those who are in extreme poverty, secondly, all the uniforms - we are talking about a hundred sixty thousand people with 500 euros a month - and thirdly, the long-term unemployed, who I have not found the number here. Therefore, the EUR 100 million of the EUR 450 million was given to the uniforms. As far as the rest is concerned, I told you how they shared. That's it. There's been another big mistake. Here's the big difference with us. We EUR 630 million have been made from the over-income of VAT, tax evasion, tax evasion, corruption, etc. This money was collected in 2016 and is attributed in 2016. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] What did the government do? He got from the primary surplus promised early March - seeing that elections are coming sooner or later in 2014-450 million euros. These were deducted from the primary surplus so that the primary surplus, promised, cannot be closed. That's how we found the deficit. That's just how it is. There is no need for dramatic tone in this Chamber. But we say that's it. Also, I'd like to say one more thing. Are we giving 15th retirement? You could typically say that for the 1/3 of the retired, who will receive this allowance now, that is, five hundred thousand, it is estimated that what they would receive as a third pension. It's not a third pension. It is obviously not institutionalised to be a third pension. But we won't do it for everything that's nothing. There's a big difference. We say that, because of what we have done and because, when there is over-performance, immediately the money must be paid by the end of the year, otherwise they are charged in the next year and in fact they are measured and deducted from the primary surplus. Do you understand what the difference is? It's a big difference. We're white with black on this level. What can we do? So we said it was a small first step for the low pensioners, because there is indeed a promise to them and they must know that they will always be in our minds and in our care. We're not going to let that happen. What is the National Mechanism for Social Integration and Cohesion? Indeed, here I have to answer whether he is a memorial, as the Golden Dawn or the JRC says. If I understand correctly, did anyone else say he was a memorial? I think not. Watch out. It is a mandatory tool for all Member States of the European Union. It's a European tool. I'm saying it to the JRC. Obviously, it's mandatory when you get an NSA. If you get an NSA, you have to have a mechanism. It entered from 2012, because Greece had not built such a mechanism until that time, but it is not a Memorandum. It's for disbursing the N.S.R. money. What do we mean, S.H.I.E.L.D.? With the NRP, we mean poverty structures, Mr Katsotis. The NPT is the structures of poverty. Supported living roofs are ESRB. All of this, of which our people are currently benefiting, is money from the ESDP. This money by the end of the year, if we had not built and voted for the mechanism, they cannot be disbursed for the country. This is the country's obligation. To explain it, it's not a memorial. Everyone can say what they want, their policy, but it is not a Memorandum of Understanding. What did we receive? Members of the New Democracy and Democratic Independence have said so. We have received a National Strategy for Social Integration and Cohesion. Why is it called that? What's that? They are the policies that the state makes on the basis of and some policies of the European Union, such as poverty, unemployment, child poverty, etc., specialised in Greece. What exactly do you want to do? These are the policies for social protection. So we received this plan in 2014 which expired, because it had to be from the beginning of 2012. You all know that. We had to revise it on the basis of our views, but also on the basis of the specialization that took place in the regions. We revised it in 2015. It was approved in September 2015. From September 2015 to June 2016, we built the mechanism, but we made it with parallel actions that were passed in the House. The community centers voted on them early last year. It was part of the mechanism. Why? Because regardless of the minors you say and which you obviously do not believe - you obviously do not believe them - we are the only ones making reforms for the good of the people and not reforms from what you mean, that is, just cuts and memoirs. These are not reforms. We do, then, have major reforms for the good of the people or where we think and know very well that we are able to implement them. Don't go into what you said again when we passed the law on the humanitarian crisis. Mr. Georgiadis was following us. I was sitting there saying to me "you won't be able to implement it in a year". We applied him in three months with a solidarity card, the only card that gave Greeks dignity, in these layers, so that they don't go with bags, which is original European. Today everyone recognises that this has not been done in any state. We did it in three months. I say that because I in three months, which will implement the whole story of the mechanism from top to bottom, will come here to ask again to apologize, as I now ask you to apologise for what you have said about the humanitarian crisis at the time, for the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u47	Who's going to apologize to who, Minister, with what you're saying? I'll see you in a minute. I'll read the excerpts Mr. Tsipras said at the Syntagma Square. Mr. Petropoulou, I'll read them for you who are laughing!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u48	Now let's go down and see what the mechanism is, so we don't lose the ball! We're talking about a mechanism that you didn't just do, but between you and me, I think you don't really want it. That's because the mechanism reveals everything. Nothing can hide when the mechanism has become, nor the money that goes to whom does it go or how many allowances one receives. Nothing can hide. The mechanism does not pay allowances, Mr Katsotis, it does not pay, but says where they are paid. Records where they're given.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u49	That's what you guys are cutting off.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u50	I am saying this in order to make this clear so that all this confusion does not exist. Could the mechanism work with dehumidified municipalities? Could he? Was it likely to work when there are no social services in too many municipalities? We also saw the CEDEFOP in the consultation. We have therefore anticipated community centres. I have a complaint here, too. Indeed, the Democratic Reconciliation has voted for it. But the Right did not vote for it. The community centers will be equipped with seven hundred and fifty young people who will be recruited with ASP. The mechanism needs people to work. If he doesn't have people, it won't work. We knew that from the start. We built community centers. Seven hundred fifty new people. They're not "neutrals", you know! As much as we say, the river won't know. He will never understand: First, what the mechanism does. Secondly, because it's simple for every citizen. And, thirdly, why are they not 'neutral'? Because that's the populist thing. Rapidity is to tell the Greek people that SYRIZA is building a state of siege. You don't keep telling all the data, it has to be repeated all the time. That's the wild populism. Tell me, how many are there going to be with the Syrians here, based on the procedures we've recorded in this mechanism? Tell me. So let's go again. The mechanism does not formulate policies. The mechanism is a tool. What's he doing? It consolidates, firstly, all the databases of the state. It consolidates and has uniformly all the beneficiaries of allowances. It unites with the VRF all the allowances paid to each human being. Is that good or bad? It's good for the state to know what's going on with him. So far, we didn't know. When the institutions asked us how many disabled people are, there was no one to tell. When they asked us how many people get allowances, there was no one to tell. They were only telling us that the disabled get too much. If we hadn't made the single basis, the HICP - which is the part of the mechanism - the institutions would continue to say that the disabled receive a lot of benefits. Only because we had done that is what we managed to convince that there are no things they were saying. Understand? The mechanism protects vulnerable layers, is not at risk from the mechanism. Politicians are in danger. They are at risk, because no one anymore, nor a Syrian, can promise a man, a disabled person or a poor person, that he will find him an allowance. Now all these people are going to community centers. It's not 'one stop shop', and that's the other one. What is it? What is "one stop shop"? So here we are doing a counterfactual - to say this to the whole world - in every municipality, which has the three, four employees, who will be hired under SAPA procedures and in front of it has a platform. When a man goes and tells him "I'm" with AMKA or his AMM, automatically all the evidence from all over the state comes ahead. And he says, "You can take this too, but you're still the beneficiary of them." He's interconnecting him right away. He says, "Apply. And from your home you can, but come here, if you can't do it alone and you don't know, we can do it to you, get everything you deserve." "Where should I take my father where is he ill?" ‘Where should I take my child?’. "What should I do if I'm homeless?" That's what the mechanism tells them. This, the river's modernists don't want to understand. There's a reason they don't want to understand it. And modernists, as well as agnostics and populists. There's a problem, a basic problem. Second, is that enough? No, that's not good enough. The state every day monitors this move. Because, well, we make the system and we give it to the municipalities. We give it to the regions too. If the state inside the Ministry doesn't watch all this traffic every day, how does it know that in Grevenas for a month it hasn't been human? What's going on there? Shouldn't the state then intervene and inform citizens? Campania? You need to go to the community center, find out what's going on with you. How would we know if there were problems with corruption? Not the citizens, even the agencies. How would we know if we didn't watch it? [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of Mrs. Deputy Minister hits the warning bell at the end of the speech time.]] Two minutes and I'll be done, Mr. President. So the mechanism platform, which is in the two hundred and fifty four community centres, had to be connected. Yes, the European Union is paying for it. We didn't have money to get seven hundred fifty people. We didn't. But they pay them by 2020, and you know very well that this will be extended and become permanent staff of the municipalities, to social services. Here we are, and here we will come back to see if it was good or not a good thing for the citizen, for his respect, for his dignity. We'll see if that's good. Finally, every day, therefore, we have linked the government online with all the ministries responsible, with regional selfgovernment and with the municipalities. That's what we did. That was no other way. Otherwise we would say words, as all the years said. And nothing was watching, nothing. He didn't know anything, nothing. He doesn't give the citizen dignity. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that this is the tool. What are the policies? Politics is the CRL, the Social Income of Solidarity. The CRL is a policy. We have great struggles for the CRL. That is why we have made it compulsory from the outset in three axes. Why do you say we haven't done the CRL since 2015? Well, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think you're hypocrites. Really. But why do you say that? Since you know that the CRL to be done wanted 760 million, what we've put into the budget. Have you put in 2015, in the budget that you voted in 2014, the 800 million and we lost them? Didn't we see them? As if that were not enough, you had the Well Bank to evaluate you with the thirteen municipalities program. He evaluated it and said it was incomplete - I say it politely - and redesigned. We redesigned it. We did it in thirty municipalities. We have planned it for six months from last year to now, and it applies to thirty municipalities. And now we have positive criticisms and positive evaluations, and we are expanding it all over the country. How?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u51	You even had a party!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Katsotis, we're not cutting a single allowance! Please, too! You voted for the 760 million...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u53	The 900 million from the pre-preferentials?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u54	Please. Please. You voted for the 760 million in the budget. We didn't cut a single allowance. But you must know that the Left has always wanted the citizen and the whole world to know and there is transparency. That's what we're fighting for! That's the mechanism, that's the policies. And you'll never forget that the CRL has three axes, three pillars of interconnectors. Whoever enters the CRL will not just get this little allowance. That is why we do not call it the'minimum guaranteed'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u55	And that's what you're closing down with, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u56	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is not at all minimum guaranteed under the conditions laid down in the minimum guaranteed. We're not going to give any more names. But whoever gets this small allowance, at the same time becomes beneficiary in the health system and has free medical care, has free fruit, food, etc. At the same time, his kids will enter the junior voucher stations. At the same time, it has a number of services which we will constantly expand, such as school meals, etc., because, of course, we know that this allowance is very small. Without the services, it can't be done. That's why the system is connected to all services. Thirdly, 10% of those entering, the beneficiaries of the CRL, the unemployed, will find a job. And you'll see that too! Because, of course, our aim is not to trap them in the CRL, within a network of poverty, but to put them back into society and work. That is why it is called the National Instrument for Social Integration and Cohesion. We are talking about integration into work, integration into society. That's our big goal, and we're going to get him! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence, Mr. Andreas Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, will the parliamentary representatives now speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u59	Then four speakers will be followed, namely Mr Igoumenides, Mr Brutsis, Mr Gregos and Mr Kegeroglou, and then Mr Petropoulos, Mr Javaras, will speak and we shall proceed properly. Here, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning! In Articles 1 to 20 of the draft law, the National Coordination Mechanism is structured, a mechanism to be reminded in this Chamber - which Mrs Christophilopoulos has also done at committee meetings - that it was necessary precisely for the reasons stated by the Minister. Once the NSRF and Community funds are carried out, this mechanism should be effective and carry out its tasks to deal with poverty. I would like to remind you that we had submitted such a plan as a previous government in December 2014 and 23 January, before the elections, we had the European Union's first approval. Although these have no meaning anymore. It's been two years since and you've shown as a SYRIZA government - ANEL your color and policies. However, in any case, the logic of this mechanism was a very useful and necessary logic. We had been mobilised and its adoption by the European Union on 23 January. So it is coming now to be institutionalised. Ladies and gentlemen, it is one - the term - that I do not like - the'spreading' of the diffuse mechanisms in central government, regional administration and local government. I think that, after its start, in this vertical form, that experience will be gathered that will give the potential for changes and rationalisation if the act so wishes. However, I have two remarks to make because I was particularly concerned about it. And I and my colleagues have dealt with the image, the institutional, the structure that this mechanism gives you, and I am exposing them to you: First of all, it is clear from the single structure of this mechanism that we have two new Directorates-General in the field of central administration. Here are positions, thirty-nine figures, covered by secondments and transfers, fifteen expert posts - obviously concerning new people through the NSRP - and all the staff for the central structure, which are fifty-four people, of which fifteen, as experts, will be recruited outside. Observations in thirteen regions are observatorys that we have not understood how many officials will be and whether they will be regional officials or will be recruited.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u61	The regions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u62	The regions? So "h" here. The regions with their structures. In both youth centres and municipalities, seven hundred fifty and two hundred and four with an AAP.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u63	Everybody inside.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u64	Everybody inside. I put the following question, which I think is reasonable: ladies and gentlemen, did we not vote for regulations by the Ministry of the Interior on mobility a few days ago? Why should we need seven hundred fifty, plus seventy-five, eighty-four, plus fifteen experts, eighty-eighteen people? We have a growing public sector and the private sector is purified to cover the costs of this public sector. Why would we need a new staff? The first thought of a well-functioning state is that, since we suffer and have to increase taxes, it is very logical that the main source of our expenditure, firstly, pensions and, secondly, that public pay should not be charged any further. Why should it be imposed? Here the record from the General Accounting Office, only for the expenditure related to this mechanism at the central level, records a cost of EUR 864,000.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u65	Theoretically.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u66	Yes, after what we have, because it will be distractions and transfers, it is the expenditure for the remaining fifteen, which will go as experts, through ASP.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u67	No, they're with S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u68	Good. With an NSRF, will they be paid? All right, I'm removing that argument. To reach agreement, we are here at this level. But for the rest, for the youth centers and the municipalities, why? Why the extra cost? Why? And this, ladies and gentlemen, adds to the expenditure caused by this ministry to create structures with what Mrs Antonopoulou has brought. Do you remember them? A few weeks ago, these were happening here. From the point of view of the Democratic Partnership and I personally had the argument that it is the process of the 1980s: 'Where I have a problem, I have a state'. Now, the question is how you get it, how you get it, how you get it, and what we need to do about it, ladies and gentlemen. Instead of entering this method of the 21st century, after suffering decades that Greece paid for these sufferings, the logic of "where I have a problem with the establishment of state structures" is a doomed practice, SYRIZA - ANEL at 100%, which is a dramatic setback in relation to the experience gained by the Greek case, which has accumulated in the Hellenic Republic in relation to its administrative system. Second cycle of themes. We, this is where we vote. Now let's go to the insurance piece. A large part of the draft law, ladies and gentlemen, concerns insurance. Do you not remember, Mr. Katrugalo, telling you that he will find 500m euros from changing the architectural structure of the insurance? Madam Secretary, at the time Mr Katrugalos told the Greek Parliament that 500m euros would be saved by changing the insurance structure. It's the FBI. And instead of having voted for a relevant delegated provision, and the administration with regulatory acts has told us how it will work since 1 January 2017, that is, now, an omen organisation - a tread, ladies and gentlemen, is coming here - which does not show you how it produces savings. Zero-euro savings. Mr. Katrugalos was lying. Air attempts were saying. Arguments, which the act proved to be completely false. Here, ladies and gentlemen, a saving of EUR 725 000 is produced from the abolition of certain allowances and from the abolition of certain administrative units, but this little savings are evenly balanced when, in the report of the General Accounting Office, EUR 620,000 is provided for the staff of the Legal Board of State. And if we add the need for wages of lawyers, that is, outsourcing, this expenditure will be increased. And Article 53 of the draft law provides that this solution, which brings you here to vote, is temporary. Because, during the accumulated experience, a new agency will be issued. This is where we laugh! Here we laugh at a government that is absolutely unprepared, with absolutely hasty arrangements, which the Greek people are finally paying for. And yet the argument that the change of structure, architecture, as the then Minister of Labour and Social Security said in a cute way, Mr. Katraugalos, would save 500 million, was a lie. Liar again! The provisions on LNG here confirm our reproach for the truth. Articles 61, 62, 63 shall remove resources from the EEA, ladies and gentlemen. IKA owes EOPY. When the insurance came here, I said that what I couldn't do because the Prime Ministers, with whom I was unable to accept it, were that the EEAS could get the money from the insured and the employers immediately. Immediately, without interfering with the Ministry of Labour. And because this would mean too many problems with regard to the possibilities of our pension mechanism in giving pensions, the Prime Ministers were having trouble accepting it. And they didn't accept it. And the Ministers of Labour did not want it. As Minister for Health I also proposed this as a Member of the House of Commonwealth. If that were the case, EEAY could negotiate health services too quickly. Instead of doing so, the draft law tells us here that for what IKA owes it, committees are set up and for the costs of examining how much it owes the EYYY to retain a 5% of the contributions. This is a robbery at the expense of the EEA, and we in no way support it. Instead of favoring the EEA, you get him resources to examine how much you owe him because you owe him. Poor thing. For IKA 5% and a 2% for corresponding functions of the EKA. Organized robbery I say that. For the solidarity allowance, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Christophilopoulos has said so. It expresses the Democratic Reconciliation. I conclude with an issue which does not concern the present ministers, but concerns the functioning of the government in general and me personally. When we discussed the budget because Mr Chakalotos, Mr Juliarakis and the Deputy Minister of State Mrs Papanatziou were here, I raised a matter concerning corruption. And I waited, because the supervising ministers were here, to have an answer. In fact, because we are not philosophers and we have nothing to do with SYRIZA and the ANELs, I said that our accusation is not about the ministers, but as finance ministers with so many issues on their agenda, they cannot have corruption issues that look at or may not know them. The issue was the so-called 'fruits'. The issue concerned a form of gambling that was provided for by the Convention on the privatisation of the OPCW and which I had voted on. We, as Democratic Institution, had also protested by me for your increase in the taxation of the OPCW, since co-privatisation had taken place and the OPCW was operating under its new ownership regime. I mean, you can't change the terms of a retrospective privatisation. What message do you send to investors and how bad are you doing to that particular investor who's arranged his accounts? I have defended privatisation and have defended the OPCW at the expense of this government which has unilaterally changed the conditions of privatization. However, an obligation of the OPCW and the Government and the Committee on Gaming, quasi-equity, independent administrative authority, was to adopt the regulation on the basis of which the game would be played with the "fruits". A regulation was issued in the Government of Samaras - Venizelos on Eugenio Giannakopoulos, the Committee on Games at the time, was tightened up by the new management of the Committee of Games in the summer of 2015, Mr Stergiotis, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, if he says something to you - I do not know if he followed you after the split, but it was your choice - tightened the terms of this game well done and then changed that man. Now in October in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency Mr Tsakalotos presented the new chairman of the Committee on Games. The new President said that this form of gambling is addictive, using a scientific opinion on this - I have distances from all of it, but he did - he took office today, say his duties and the next day he adopted a multi-page regulation published in the FEK on 1 January, which abolishes all the restrictions. All of them! It eliminates the two hundred meters of distance from one game point to the other. The limit of EUR 80 per tonne per tonne per tonne is abolished by each player. It abolishes the obligation on the player's card to register the VAT, i.e. to show his tax profile. If he owes the public, how does he play? Remove anything related to limitations and even how many hours a day, a week, a month will be playing. They are abolished by the new president, who saw that Greeks would be addicted to this game. There's a problem of corruption here. Yesterday the Committee on Games sent my statement to the prosecutor. I imagine he also sent this regulation and the previous regulations on this game. I will personally inform the Public Prosecutor with every element of step of this scandal and I will remind you that, in view of this regulation published in the FAO on 1 November, the OPCW withdrew its application for international arbitration with which it asked for a billion dollars from the Greek Contracting Government. Here we have a corruption issue. You were against all these games, special gambling. You have changed your mind, but you have tightened the procedures, changed your mind again, abolished the restrictions and you are controlled today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u69	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u70	I'm closing, Mr. President. It did not act in any way in response to me by the Minister responsible, the Deputy Minister responsible, the State Secretary responsible. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Good. It must, however, complete its actions, send all the relevant material. And we're at the disposal of the court to provide guarantees. It's got to be clear here. You honorers, you organisers of an effort, treacherous effort, sliding each political opponent, have no room for slipping into corruption, even if this slip is a few points. In this case it is a milestone and you should see it as a parliamentary group. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), in writing. - (FR) The Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party supports the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party (Christian Democrats) and European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party (Christian Democrats). Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. We are moving forward, as we have already announced with Mr Igoumenidis, a SYRIZA Member, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we wanted to put a brake on the recovery of the social disaster caused by the political choices of our predecessors. We wanted to knit a net of dignity, build a net of social protection for the many, vulnerable and unprotected. So this is what we have done since with their struggles workers have brought us into positions of government responsibility. And we did not do so either in fragmentary terms, in terms of interlocutory, or in terms of a client-state. Since the first moment we've been in the government's position, we've unfolded our plan, a plan. I should like to remind you that the humanitarian crisis law - the Minister mentioned earlier in the contagion by officials of the New Democracy - the New Democracy and the PASOK did not consider it necessary. We continued with the law on the parallel programme in the same design. Let me remind you this past time, on Christmas Eve, who were co-ordinated with the political choices of our lenders. We continued in 2016 piloting, implementing the social program on social income solidarity, and in this direction we have been trying to implement it since 2017 in all the municipalities of the country. It is typical that the parties' parties are placed in the opposition. This same design is also part of today's draft law, which establishes a single mechanism, which together with the information systems will establish and oversee the social protection index as a whole and uniform as a whole. Here, Minister, allow me a parentheses. It is not a matter of today's debate. I refer to yesterday's news, on the occasion of the social laundry, for the activities and activities of the Municipality of Athens. We are informed by the news of ten thousand households without power, in the area of the Municipality of Athens. How much are the households? A second question is why they are not covered by protection. And a third is what we're going to do, deal with it. How many households on the ground? I'm closing the parenthesis because I said it's not a matter today. We will come back and perhaps the Ministry will have to give an answer. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not dwell on all the elements mentioned by several of the previous speakers of the opposition parties. I would just like to give one clue. Over the years 2012, 2013, 2014 were given to social policy 450 million, 150 million per year. In the years 2015, 2016, 2017, with what we have voted on and the budget, 1,750 billion will be allocated, i.e. we have a quadrupling of the amount. And we say so, ladies and gentlemen, without a dose of suffocation. Because for the Left it is at least a shame to be proud to support as it may be vulnerable. In our view, the same shame is, on the other hand, to call such moves, toast to eyes or to mock. And I am thinking here of the whole range of opposition tactics, of the politically petty treatment of the measures we propose or are applying, which have a social footprint, until the event of agony and the creditors retreat to their pressures and we can apply our social policy. I refer to the conscious choice of applying the views of our lenders. The statements by the Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr.Georgiadis, are characteristic: "We will do what the troika and so much," he said, as a follow-up to the unimportant: "And if we had no memorials, we should invent them", until the theatrical representations of the trade union bureaucracy at the door of the Ministry of Health. You know, these are performances that don't surprise us. We know very well, as all colleagues in this Chamber know, that the spearhead of social policy on the left is our health policy. This conscious choice to support the public health system is not for the sake of ideology. The public health system is the system that the poor and the weak need. The public health system, in addition to the high quality care provided it offers, is ultimately a more economical one. We want the public health system to be able to implement the parallel programme and all that we are establishing. For this reason, as far as the public health system is concerned, we will remain stubbornly in favour of it. That is why the whole attack by the opposition on the Ministry of Health's political leadership is also being attacked. I would therefore like, on the occasion of today's debate, to address the WTO bureaucrats. Continue, gentlemen, your theatrical performances. Continue displaying the subordinates to the watches of the television camera of the pedophiles of power. Build more walls at the health ministry's door. What you are actually, slowly but firmly, raising a wall between you and the majority of those working in the public health system who, in our political direction, are bleeding - we know that they are bleeding - but ultimately manage with us to keep the public health system up. Ladies and gentlemen, we have institutionalised, we have legislated support measures for citizens in extreme poverty. We have put in place measures for the health coverage of uninsured persons. We have legislated for a fairer distribution of burdens. These are examples of our bias in favour of weaker social groups. However, we are fully aware that society needs much more. Our dreams of society and homeland draw farther. If I said that for the Left it is a shame to brag about helping the weak, the greatest shame for us is the existence of vulnerable social groups. In relation to our dreams, in relation to society's demands, we respond: Yes, we can today concentrate the needs of many, the resetting of the economy, the relaunch of employment. Yeah, we can get out of the crisis with society standing up. We are the political power of the economically weakest social groups, we are the force of social and political stability and we will certainly succeed with the living social forces on a common path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Igoumenidis, SYRIZA MP. Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, Member of the New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, they say that history is avenged. This bill, which we are discussing at the moment, is the living example of the confirmation of history in the sense that SYRIZA today, with this bill, is in front of a past that haunts him, as he is faced with his lies, in words of shame he has said in the past, but in the face of a merciless reality, in the responsible, institutional, patriotic attitude of the Anti-Population Officer, but also of other parties. But I don't want to talk about the rest of the parties. This is, gentlemen of SYRIZA, today's debate on the bill. And I say that because from the start we've been placed. And that's good to get it as a lesson in parliamentary morality and responsibility. I say this to the SYRIZA Members and to the government: we will vote for the bill, but with our criticism, on individual issues, and I will explain why. We will vote on the bill on the part of social policy, the first and second chapters, because it integrates instruments of policies that have been launched in the days of the previous government and which are continuing. We will not vote on the part of the insurance company, because here you are confirming live, Mr Petropoulou, that everything is on the knees and the insurance in the air. It is not only the reductions that you made, the EUR 3.1 billion, the inappropriate and the unfair ones, which I am saying. It is also the organizational plan and the administrative restructuring of the Ministry, which you are bringing here today as a fragment, a sign of curiosity and a policy that you do not know whether there will be the next day. But let us now go to the social policy part, to confirm what I say, that history today haunts SYRIZA. Minimum guaranteed income, ladies and gentlemen. This is negotiating today's bill and its extension through a mechanism for which I said we agreed. I would like to remind you, however, what he said when I had brought the minimum guaranteed income to the House, as Minister, and I signed it with Mr Kegeroglu. It is worth mentioning this as an example of history, that the next generations of politicians see the video, so that they do not make the same mistakes and never become SYRIZA at the level of behaviour and parliamentary practice. You said that "the minimum guaranteed income, as a policy, is all it guarantees is poverty. They're state charity crumbs. It is an impoverishment allowance, social and economic mockery." That's what SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA said and you did not vote for the minimum guaranteed income, the largest institutional, social reform in the newest Greek state. And you delayed it two years by cheating and mocking the weak, the vulnerable social groups. I heard just before you defend yourself again, with the same political tale and account of the SYRIZA, that you are in favour of the weak and vulnerable social groups. This account is now overtaken, you know. Nobody believes you. Use the weak, use the workers only to guard their vote. In fact, for their sake and improvement, you're not doing anything. This is what New Democracy does, and this is condensed in our policy. She said Mrs. Fotou just before that the evidence suggests that the 2014 poverty was the largest and that from that point on, poverty began to go away. Who are you telling, Minister? To me, to New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u75	To you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u76	So take the evidence of the Bank of Greece, Mrs. Fotio. On page 166, the Bank of Greece says that in 2014 the poverty of 7.1% was reduced. In 2015 - one year you only remained in power - you poored the world by 8%. Here, I put it in the Minutes, so the SYRIZA MPs can see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u77	I would like the floor later, Mr President. He doesn't know when the evidence is measured every time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u78	Well, Mrs. Fotio. Let's go down. We're voting for the social dividend. We have said so in committee too. We're not SYRIZA. But you will listen to our criticism. The social dividend, ladies and gentlemen, is wrong and wrong. I'll see you here today. It's wrong! In order to take a slow look at criticism, however, I would remind you of a text. Listen to a text on Samara's vast and trissy social dividend of EUR 500 million. Do you remember the EUR 500 million that the previous government gave from the primary surplus? So here's something about the social dividend of EUR 500 million: 'We consider an act of shame, an act of shame, an act of humiliation of every citizen of that country. On the one hand they grab the bread from the table of millions of people and on the other they fly it with some crumbs to buy, as they imagine, their support in the policy that stole the bread and aims to steal from the table and the chairs and the house." Things unthinkable! Subsequently, "their surplus is marked for the Greeks. In this all sins, all wounds, all rot, all fraud of today's politics are hidden." It's not the government's fault, I see. It is not your fault, colleagues of SYRIZA. It's Mr. Tsipras' words. A little shame. That is what Mr Tsipras said, so that you can read it, gentlemen of SYRIZA, so that these phenomena will not be repeated in the future. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That is what Mr Tsipras said about the 500 million we gave the weak and put the social groups in. And here's the political difference. The New Democracy is voting for it. But what do we say? We say it's a shame to say it's a thirteenth pension. The JRC dragged you out today. The JRC dragged you down, put you down the amendment against what the Prime Minister said in the order that it is a thirteenth pension. The JRC dragged you out! It has brought you an amendment to vote on the thirteenth pension. Why don't you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u79	He doesn't want an ally for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u80	In any case, we will vote for the aid with the 517 million, but it is not a third pension, ladies and gentlemen. The second is that I have heard the Minister say that it is an over-performance of smuggling and tax evasion. Do you believe that? Do you realize what you're saying? Ladies and gentlemen, the surplus, as shaped in 2016 and 2015, is a result of the fiscal extermination of each household, every operation. You've taxed unemployed, you've cut pensions. That's where you created what you're giving today. At least be honest with that. And to what we are criticising today, very critical, is the way you give it, not transparency, because the mechanism has been fixed by the Ministry. It's going to be the right way through HICP. You have taken him, Mr. Petropoule, the "ELIO" which you do not show and thankfully that exists and given in this way. But the way you give it is horizontal. Instead of touching vulnerable social groups of the unemployed, you give it horizontally, to fleece and quickly, creating injustices. Someone today will be retiring with the wife of 870 euros, but there are two people, someone will get a seven hundred euros pension and get the allowance. Is that fair? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I have heard that, Mr President, allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u81	Do you want one or two more minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u82	Two minutes, Mr. President. So I say that the way you give it is unfair, because it is horizontal, you do not have income criteria. We, in the social dividend we have given, set income criteria so that someone who has incomes from other sources and deprive him of it from someone who has nothing, someone who has an unemployed, for example. So here is who really cares about the weak and the vulnerable and sets up social justice measures. I have heard the Minister, Mr Petropoulos, in committee say: 'We do not have the mechanism'. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, I assure you that the mechanism is ready for the Ministry of Labour. If the government decides tomorrow to set income criteria, it can in three days to operate and share dividends with income criteria, so that we can get weak charges. I will now speak about the rest, and I shall conclude. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is also taking place in another environment, in an environment in which there is a political economic and social uncertainty. I simply want to raise an issue that concerns the primary surplus, 3.5 %, a particularly serious issue, an issue that comes on the agenda, an issue behind which SYRIZA is hiding behind. Today, we presented and made public - through a communication from the New Democracy - that the primary surplus of 3.5% has been agreed for ten years by SYRIZA. For ten years SYRIZA has signed a primary surplus of 3.5% by 2028 and beyond, until 2040, de-escalation. It is the text - I will present it immediately - which confirms that in the first evaluation report, signed by Tsipras, signature by the Government of SYRIZA...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u83	Signature of Tsakalotus.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u84	You signed 3.5% of the primary surplus for ten years! Who are you hiding from and where are you now lioning? Are you ready to escape? Will you dare go to elections? We're telling you to go. Every day you live in the government, you hurt yourself. Are you going to an election, or do you want to do fake pseudonyms again and sign them all? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u85	Thank you. Mr. Gregos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. The relationships between love and affection between the New Democracy and the KKE are well known over time and the Greek people know very well that the differences between SYRIZA and the New Democracy are usually, if not always, virtual.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u87	Virtual, but not unbelievable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u88	Virtual, because your policies are exactly the same. Because a lot has been heard in the last few days, once again, to return from the Step of the Parliament and as a legitimate and democratically elected MP, like all the Members of the Golden Dawn, all the insults and insults against us of those who have the courage to cut them off. All of these will receive the relevant message, whenever elections are held in courtrooms. You started with a bill to deal with the humanitarian crisis today, two years later, bring in another bill to deal with it supposedly. The solidarity card, the Minister said, is an originality. This is not an originality, Minister, it's a shame. It is shameful that Greeks need such cards in a European Union of 2016. "National Mechanism for Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of Political Integration and Social Cohesion, Arrangements on Social Solidarity and Applicable Provisions of Law No.4387/2016(A 85)", heavy title in a bill, again in accordance with the urgency procedure, which allegedly tries to give emergency solutions to the enormous problem of the Greek people. You said, Minister, that you are wrong in this procedure. We have heard the SYRIZA rapporteur condemn the policies of the memoranda, indirectly, which this bill allegedly will resolve. And it's tempting and outrageous to invoke sensations for vulnerable social groups and social policy implementation, while you apply faithfully and outrageously every command of loan sharks. We have heard about poverty indicators, only these poverty indicators in Greece of 2016 are not measurable at all and they are the result of your own policies. What has led to the need for such bills? Reductions in wages, pensions, increase in unemployment, corruption, the customer state, immunity, false promises. You admitted today, with every point in this bill, that you are responsible for this unprecedented crisis and of course you are unable to deal with it. We used to watch people look in the trash. We used to watch closed stores and businesses. We got used to the piles with shy images that make around the world. We used to offer various kinds to students who don't have to eat. We got used to the image of people outside of supermarkets asking not for charity, but for milk for their children. We got used to 200 euros wages. All this unknown to you, but a daily life for a large portion of the Greek people. The crumbs, which you supposedly share with pensioners, are an insult that they understand themselves and it's money you stole from them through cuts and reductions in pensions. When a worker pays their own contributions every month, it requires - and it is fair that you do - the next day with the information systems you publish in this bill to get his pension that is right and that is done not after three years, but immediately the next day. And how will he live those three years? With the lies of Tsipra and Mitsotakis, there are no problems of survival and no one is convinced anymore. Businesses are there, money is there, but only for foreigners. The Greek must be impoverished, hungry, left to other countries. You are even so 'democrat' that you have characterized the piles of Golden Dawn as a pile of hate - blatantly - by depriving even this aid to our compatriots, blinded by your feelings and hatred. Unemployment is growing, flexible work is now the only employment relationship. Individual and collective agreements have been abolished and nothing seems to stop this catastrophe. The National Mechanism, in cooperation with local government bodies, will identify the social needs of citizens, coordinate social inclusion and cohesion policies, monitor and evaluate their implementation. Big words and no substance! You have participated and continued to participate actively in the attempt to pooren the Greeks and now call on you to establish the administrative mechanism that is responsible for combating poverty. The establishment of this mechanism and the relevant directorates are necessary to absorb social funding. Let us see, however, how many of these funds will result in the real economy and the real support of the Greek family. And recording, of course, is necessary. So far you have shown that you cannot offer anything to the hardly tested Greek people. That's why he turns your back on you, and you guys pretend you don't understand it. Once again, let the Greek people know that there is no difference in the parties of the anti-national, memorial and supposedly democratic arc and any change in the country's governance by New Democracy will have the same and possibly worse effects. SYRIZA's sucess story became a crue store. False promises and benefits from SYRIZA, fakes from the New Democracy. The programmes you are supposed to announce every time are cancelled on the next day of the elections and on the referendum that you have so democratically cancelled. And it is truly tragic and challenging to talk about social solidarity, justice and democracy. The bodies and structures you are trying to build are inadequate and inefficient. Most of the time, they don't serve party interests. In the people's neighborhoods that are mostly plagued by this unprecedented crisis, you dare not circulate. In Perama, Keratsini, in the western districts of Thessaloniki and in every neighborhood you are now unwanted. In these neighborhoods, the nationalist movement of the Golden Dawn has been gigantic, which is all it can give a solution to the humanitarian crisis with its program and proposals. No matter how democratically you organise counter-concentrations with left-wing raids, no matter how democratically you deprive us of the word, no matter how democratically you fight us, you muddle us and you persecute us, we alone will be next to the Greek who needs it, to the Greek who gives us strength to continue, without taking a step back in a struggle, to which we will certainly be entitled and thank him for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for seven minutes. Before Mr Petropoulos speaks, Mr Pappas will speak of an amendment. It will be supported for a very short time and we will proceed with Mr Petropoulos and Mr Javarra. Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we lived yesterday on the quote from the Prime Minister of Communications on the islands and, of course, on the issues that concern the country. I have to start from there and, of course, say that at the time the Prime Minister revealed to us about his youth and his bad friends on the islands, at the same time, in the presentation of the book of Nadia Valavani, they were talking about a great betrayal. Is it related to the development of Mr Tsipras, who has been jealous of Mr Kammenos, and today they do not stand out - as twins are - in their policy? Ladies and gentlemen, two of the Prime Minister's announcements, I will mention, to show that it was really a performance, which does not respond to reality. His first announcement was that the services of the island municipalities are being directed to deal with increased problems. No more untrue. I must tell you that the bill that we are debating, on the basis of which 200 fifty-four Community Centres are set up and which have been voted on by a previous law, which will contribute to the implementation of social actions and programmes and be next to the social services of the municipalities, are seventy-four municipalities in Greece, and of these forty-six are islands. I will submit to their minutes forty-six island municipalities less than ten thousand non-Community centres and for which the Prime Minister has not spoken. Nor did Nisser say a word about Nisser, from which he made the announcements, wherever they are not founded. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The second announcement concerned the additional financing of farmers and farmers on the islands by compensatory compensation. Yes! After abolishing the obligation of the beneficiary producer or farmer or the person who has, as has evolved, simply property receiving a subsidy to be a resident of the island, of course, the beneficiaries are increased and the islands are now receiving a subsidy and the islands of Athens. That's what this is about. The supposed increase in aid for farmers and farmers is the integration of the beneficiaries of the compensatory and islands of Athens. I testify to the two decisions, the one that has been made in the past and the one that came out now, which only says that the property is on the islands, not himself to be a resident. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis raised a major issue concerning social protection, the protection of the weakest and, of course, not only this, but also the need to create a sustainable social state, which would continue its policy and support for low incomes and non-existent ones, a tradition that began from 1981 onwards with PASOK policies. The need for reform of the welfare state has, however, been demonstrated by the intense crisis and, above all, by the creation of a large part of society, people who no longer have access to basic goods. Extreme poverty for the first time made its appearance - of course there was before, but at low rates - a significant proportion of which is 5%, 6% and 7% and the manifestation of the crisis. The consequences, even if the causes are now being addressed, even if the economic recovery is now beginning, will be for many years. That is why they really need policies to deal with the crisis. We must say - because there is a lot of talk - that in fact in the past few years there have been schools, children's stations, day care centres for the elderly, CAP and civil service centres. We were often blamed by this wing for having borrowed the schools, the children's stations, the JEPs, and even the KAPIs, in every neighborhood. The development and social model that the government is coming to show us today is on every block and from a casino! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] This is our big difference, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, and we really need to see with surprise all this is happening. We have prepared the National Strategy for Social Integration and Cohesion. Our rapporteur has mentioned it, and the Minister has mentioned it. The National Strategy in December 2014 was agreed with the European Commission and further developed its specialisation, with a view to implementing this strategy, which is up to 2020, to implement the programme on guaranteed social income or social solidarity income, as the Government re-arranged it. The main objective of this policy is to reduce poverty and child poverty and, of course, to support the weakest, to access basic services, to the services of social care and to the goods that they really need and the weakest, families whole. I would also like to say that the European Aid Fund for the most deprived, food aid, was approved in December 2014 and is implemented by social partnerships. In fact, what the Prime Minister announced today to the municipalities of western Thessaloniki is in the context of food aid for the most deprived, the programme that the social partnership implements in this region. They are positive for us, and that is why you would see that we have also dealt with the government's positive initiatives, regardless of mistakes or disagreements on individual issues, which have to do with the support of the weakest. I must remind you that we also supported the creation of the Community Centres, but we also supported the reintroduction and continuation, the practical start for all of Greece, the programme of social solidarity, so that the weakest can be supported. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like some more time, Mr President. Of course, I have to say that we have tabled a proposal for a law for a long time, which we have taken into account the evaluation of the pilot programme, the comments made, the report by the Economic and Social Committee on this proposal, and the draft law does not. We have reached different conclusions, which is why the proposal for a law we have tabled has other criteria and different amounts of aid than the pilot project we have carried out. Because we now need to see how it worked in practice. This is lacking in planning, and I believe in the course, at least, of the government correcting it. For example, it lacks the criterion of whether the family requested to join the support program stays in a rented house or not. He doesn't have that criterion. Continuing, I would like to say about the Housing and Reintegration programme, which concerned the homeless, and here I would like to link it to the social dividend. The social dividend was not only what was shared as financial aid, the 450 million previously mentioned, and Mr Brutsis and Mrs Fotou disagreed with, it was also actions that were specific projects. The "House and Reintegration" programme of homeless people, which has so far been very successful - has been recognized by Mrs Fotio - has been financed from these 525 million that were a whole. And I call today for 10 million to be cut off from 617 million and for this programme to continue, which has funding by the end of 2016. It's very important. I will close, with reference to two amendments which we have tabled, in two proposals, in addition to the one I have just mentioned. To say about the amendment on protection against seizure, settling or any claim of any kind of benefits of any kind, prosperous, family, disability benefits, financial aid coming after natural disasters, the social solidarity allowance. We ask the Minister to accept this amendment so that we do not have the phenomena of seizures for money that these weak people need, who are a gift free if you give them and let them take them, whether the banks or the DUs. Because the DUs are now champions in the seizures, even from 500 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u91	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u92	I conclude by saying that the second part of the bill, which relates, a few days before the start of the operation, to the Single Social Security Agency, demonstrates the correctness of the criticism we have had from the outset and of the choice to become a super-benefit for the insurance, but above all to the inertia that Mr Katrugalos has shown in implementing this law and preparing for the implementation from 1 January. All we can surely see is the kiss of Judah, namely the so-called personal difference, which is the precursor to further reduce today's pensions, through the negotiations that the government is holding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-six students and students and three educational sessions from the 5th Grade of Painters. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To inform the students that they are attending a Parliament meeting where a draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity is being discussed. The vote will take place after the debate so that it becomes a law of the state. Mr Nicos Pappas, Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, has the floor to support an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Department of Digital Policy is a newly established Ministry and emerged from the association of the General Secretariats of Communication and Information, Digital Policy and Telecommunications and Posts. Its organizational chart is under way and will come to the House in the next few days, but it is urgent that the three Secretariats be combined mainly with regard to their financial and administrative services. Since the Ministry, as a new establishment, does not currently have the Directorate-General for Economic Affairs, the Directorate-General for Economic and Financial Services of the Directorate-General for Information and Communication is the existing administrative structure which can provide these services until the establishment of the Ministry's establishment. Thus, with the provision proposed in the House, these responsibilities of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information and the Secretary-General's subordinates are entrusted to the existing Directorate-General for Finance and Services of the General Secretariat of Information. As you know, the Secretariat-General for Digital Policy is a secretariat, which was set up and was under the Prime Minister, currently under the newly established Ministry, does not have administrative and financial services. The General Secretariat for Telecommunications and Postal is transferred from the Ministry of Infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Minister. Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate has an object, which I expected it to have the admiration of all the wings, and why it is dealing in a well-organised way with poverty, with welfare policy, and why it creates the most solid foundations, as the EVA project is developing, so that we have the best record, which is a real performance of pride for the country, creating a very short period of time a very large public body in social security. It is an achievement that I expected you to support in the direction of capacity building, to have the best results in the functioning of the ECA. However, you show again as if you do not understand the efforts made by the Greek people, the efforts made by the country to deal with immediate, serious and acute problems. This is the attitude of the Qualified Opposition. And I would like to inform you, on this occasion, that the negotiation continues, still today and tomorrow, to be conducted by the Greek Government towards creditors and I would at least expect you to support this effort, by changing the position expressed by the New Democracy, on the collective negotiations, to change your attitude on the issues, which concern a vital issue for the Greek people and the economy itself. Because the economy needs the collective negotiations and you declare your refusal to do so, which is also a request for trade union parties, expressed through the New Democracy. This two-faced and unjustly blurred policy that expresses the New Democracy, should be with everything and nothing, at one time it must be cleared and at least on the critical and topical issues to take a responsible position. Will you declare support for the government's efforts in collective labour agreements? Do it here. Despite your extensive information yesterday from the representatives of workers in the media, I still did not hear you express your opinion and position at last. Will you support this request by workers in the press to strengthen the EDPS by employers, with whom did you well go hand in hand during the previous period in the authorisation process? It's done. In the previous period, the argument was that they would not obtain authorisations from those who had them and therefore would not pay and participate in their respective part of the contributions for the operation of the EDPS. Now what is the argument you will put forward and what do you, as a party, which you aspire to, as you say, give a solution to the problems of the Greek people? Immediately this is the request and now you must answer what you say about it, as well as what you say about collective agreements. Because Mr Georgiadis may have said so, but you must say that it was Mr Georgiadis's views and not the New Democracy. As long as you remain silent, it means that you are adopting this attack against the interests of workers and against the interests of the economy and society. If you have not understood it, because it was a foreign thing towards your own ideology, collective labour contracts make a fair break in the powers of labour and business, in the sphere of economic production. It is criminal about your refusal to contribute positively to what is below - the Constitution demands, to what normality is imposed on the European Union. How ready are you? You want to go and rule when you cannot give simple answers to the ruthless questions and immediate needs that the country has. You're not saying anything. And it's really something that at least displeased me. It doesn't make me happy not to say anything about Qualified Opposition. You've already left reality. You are always in a state of escapism and avoid all responsibility. I am particularly surprised when I hear the representatives of the New Democracy here who have received a social security system with a cash surplus of 1.5 billion a year to deliver with the cash deficit, not proportionally, over 1.3 billion, to give us, with reduced pensions, to dramatic deficits. These are not those deficits of high pension derivatives, but of declining pensions. And now, you're telling us that we're doing things wrong and we're ruining yours. Who? The insured at IKA in 2009 were 1.8 million, 1.3 million went down in 2015, with remuneration being dramatically reduced. Therefore, the contributions to these reduced earnings were minimal in order to enter the social security system and meet pension requirements. We have a problem to deal with. You cannot see it any different from organising the social security system at least on a fair basis, giving ideologically what we consider to be a protectionist Community: the Community of interests for everyone, without discrimination. This includes both farmers and all the people who work and work in Greece. That is why we did not discriminate against the payment of this allowance, which for 500,000 pensioners since 1.6 million corresponds to the pension received. This aid, allowance - say it as you like - you didn't want it. We shall vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. Your first reaction was negative. It is good, of course, that you have changed your mind, that we are not dissatisfied with this, but change our minds to the rest, if you really want to be honest in order to support this effort that the government is doing to get the chestnuts out of the fire. For I would remind you that we are in negotiation and it would be good for all the sides of the House to support what we are seeking, free negotiations, clear objections or refusal, absolutely contrary to any claim to reduce pensions. We declare this. From you I have not heard you say 'no, we will not accept a reduction in pensions'. I didn't hear you say that. You're saying we're gonna take it, we're not. You, not only are not saying no, but instead you are speaking in one, too, irresponsible way of reducing tax burdens - which we too want - but without saying where the equivalent effect will come from for this tax reduction, which we of course also want. We can achieve it through the development process in which we are in. How will you do that? You haven't explained it to us. The debate on this bill is a part of the ideological origin of yours and ours, because it really is what the project is that you are choosing for the Greek society and what it is, which we are putting before us. Instead of meditating - and I say this with due diligence, because I could say that you are constantly mocking - about trying to operate a social security institution for everyone without exceptions, you see that you have exempted farmers from national pensions. We will, however, give them a national pension. You are presenting yourself to farmers as a better option - not only did you give them nothing, but the basic pension in 2026 also disappeared in full - against us, which we give national pensions to farmers and we maintain, despite what you have raved to say so long, in the small areas, in the small villages in the category of insurance of the OGA, the small ones, every small activity. You keep saying that, so that the lenders can hear it and claim the exclusion of these charges. They did, but we did not accept it. It's over, too. Finally, support something sensible and support, without any evasion, what we simply and logically achieve: No redundancies, no redundancies for workers in social security, but to strengthen the structures in the municipalities with the provision that exists in the law from the provisions of the Theanos Fotium, so as to strengthen the municipalities. I heard just before that what the Prime Minister, who spoke about strengthening the municipalities, was not true. There's the layout. Support it and we will see the distribution and in practice, which I am sure will be operational. Finally, do not pass the pessimism on the Greek people, on the insured, above all, repeating that no one will be there to receive a pension, because the system will have collapsed. Hey, that's not gonna happen! And the great example of this government's behaviour and practical results will be the start of the Single Social Security Agency from the beginning of January. But as I have said, it does not mean that everyone will be transferred to the same buildings in one day. However, everyone will be on the same legal basis and operate in the same way, in the same way - the distribution - of pensions and benefits, of course - with fair differences where necessary. For this reason, I will table a legislative improvement with regard to those who are insured in heavy and unhealthy, who, instead of choosing to leave earlier than working life, as they are entitled to, will remain in their work relationship, work and those who are working overweight, who will have an increase in pensions, which corresponds to one percentage point for each higher contribution paid by the ceiling, which is provided for heavy and unhealthy and overweight. This legislative improvement will be submitted immediately after that. There is no point in Mrs Christophilopoulou's view that persons with incapacity or disability under custody or protection are also receiving - or they should also receive - an increased pension. Discrimination has been made in maintaining the right to leave earlier and it is a ministerial decision by Giorgos Katrugalos and mine since last year, which has been in force and we have retained this right for these people not to cross the increased age limits. However, there is no provision in any law in the past for an increased contribution in order to get an increased pension. We have retained the right to leave employment earlier than working life. You said, Mr Brutsi, as well as the rapporteur, Mr Salmas - if I am not mistaken, both of you - that we are going to eat the EEA's money by putting on a commission. Mr. Loverdos said so too. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I will finish with this because I want to be always accurate in my time. 5% commissioned the IKA to the IKA on your day, by your own decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u97	Who is she?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u98	It's an old decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u99	What's the decision?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u100	I'll give it to the Minutes. There are many millions of euros every month that were amortised by IKA's obligations to the EEA. IKA commander's decision, mandated by you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u101	Here's the thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u102	That is the way it is, and do not object.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u103	You should file the document. There was no such legislative framework. If the commander did it, he did it himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u104	I've answered. It was yours. What was it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u105	You can't say inaccurate. We made the EPPY. Don't we know that there isn't? There was no 5% legislated. You don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u106	It's not inaccurate. Mr. Salma, I'm going to be noble while I'm here. Don't be rude. I said exactly what I repeat and now. The administration of the IKA...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u107	What do you repeat? That you legislate something that didn't exist?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Salma, then Mr. Javarras, who follows, might say whatever he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u109	I repeat, the commanding officer of yours has charged the EEA...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u110	You plead ignorance. Expose. There was no 5% legislated. I told you to the committee the other day, 'give it up'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u111	Then get serious. Be serious, so you can hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Salma, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u113	What can I hear? Is that inaccurate? Where do you judge that you don't know?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u114	Listen to see, because you call for your long term term term in Parliament, I can invoke other things myself. Don't talk like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u115	What can't we talk about? That you legislate something that didn't exist, I tell you! Check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Salma, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u117	Respect yourself and the Chamber this year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u118	Respect what? The inaccuracies of a minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Salma, please let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u120	I repeat, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u121	Check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u122	The commander, and obviously...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u123	And what does that mean? Do you have to do this law?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u124	I don't understand! I, therefore, take the initiative and this 5%, I limit it to 2% and you shout over it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u125	It is 2% on the whole of the insurance funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u126	Telling us that way...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u127	He's telling us inaccurate and criticizing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u128	Well, people listen and understand. The more you yell, the worse for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u129	Don't criticize, you're being exposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u130	I'm gonna make a review, I don't understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u131	You inaccurate me? It is 2% on the whole of the insurance funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Salma, please, we're not going to go on like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u133	I'll give you the exact account. It's too many millions you've taken away. Therefore, do not invoke the limitation to the lesser 2% that it is due to our own intention to set aside obligations to the EEAS and put a very specific provision, which clears all the requirements on either side of the accounts. You're the newest one tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Minister. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr Constantine Javarra has spoken for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What we have heard from both the Minister and the Secretary-General is a fundamental concern, because the New Democracy does not understand us. And, indeed, this attitude is quite understandable, because the New Democracy does nothing but represent in this Chamber the real, living and heated social reality, that which has put you on the margin and that one, which today does not accept to hear from you any other promise, does not agree to collect from you any of the things that you falsely promised, none of the magically promised it and, unfortunately, everything on the way has proved fruit. Madam Minister, I have sincerely followed you and I will assure you that you have convinced me of one thing: that you are honest. You are honest in the faith that you have, that what you say has something to do with reality. And here this, which corresponds to what I have heard from you, is a saying, coming from the texts of the church, "Always strong in faith". So I do not abuse you, but what I cannot forgive all my fellow Members from the majority who come to this step to speak - supposedly - of any bill, is that they do nothing but act on the opportunity to make a speech parallel, which is ideologically ideologically vague and does not meet the issues raised in the drafting of the bills. Honestly, I cannot understand how you can convince us and, at least, be in such a relationship to develop in this Chamber the dialogue that democracy imposes on us, unless the relationship between love and love with authority, which you have developed, has brought you into such a situation that you have now become completely 'appropriate for precautions', as the great Alexandrian poet says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u136	Are you telling us? Is this about us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u137	But the interest, above all, is that you are talking about poverty, with a completely different spirit than the regulation that you are bringing today, is dealing with it. And I will explain it to you immediately and very simply, because what I said before was neither accidental nor did I want to object to and blame you unjustly. You come here and talk to us adoringly about poverty. You love her poverty, indeed. There is a historical relationship which links you with a form of poverty, that which existed in Europe and England in the nineteenth century, that is, where the impoverishment of the proletariat became the force, which through the revolutionary ideologies of that time gave the Communist parties the right to believe that they could change the world. Things have changed. It is not the same after a hundred and fifty years, and what we are saying today is 'poverty' within the European Union is a risk. It is not the subject of worship, it is not the subject of love, it is not the subject of support, but it is a danger to social cohesion. And what you are bringing today, Mr Ministers, to legislate, if you had studied it even more well, because it seems to you to have been given ready, you would see that it is a regulation which is relevant to the provision of Article 30 of the revised Social Charter, which, quite symptomaticly, you yourself have adopted with Mr.4359. And indeed, because the State Secretary said he can't hear us talking, I'd like to know if what I'm saying is in a position to understand it. I think so, because this provision of Article 30...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u139	Don't interrupt me, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u140	You're also insulting...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u141	No, not at all. I'm an entrepreneur. I just have no reason to adore social weaknesses. That is what I am doing and I am perfectly rational, and I tell you with great respect, because if you read Article 30, you would see that, for the first time, the revised Social Charter and Greece today recognises as a human right to protect citizens against poverty and against social exclusion. But you're wrong, and I'll explain it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u142	Shall we give more?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u143	If, Minister, they were your intentions, you would have made them a conscious obligation on all those who serve the vision of the power of this government. Today, I think you should be ashamed of one thing, that in Thessaloniki a group of homeless people went to warm up in the basement of the Hippocrates Hospital, and there instead of warmth, instead of the administrations you have appointed - and of course you have appointed these people on party criteria - have found the police to lead them to the prosecutor. So this provision does not simply detract from your obligation to do so in relation to Article 30 of the Revised European Social Charter, because you should at least know that this particular Social Charter also says that it has the right of the poor, the homeless, the disabled, the state-in-law, to have access - firstly, to employment, secondly, to education, thirdly to culture, fourthly to housing, fifthly to social life. Which of these, which are some references and aspects of this right, which the poor citizen has, defends this legislation that you are bringing today? Just one. Do you know what this is? What you have brought with the amendment of the last moment: the tip of gratitude, of gratitude, of gratitude to the retired. But here I will ask you: firstly, are the pensioners in this country? Do they live below the limits of poverty or in extreme poverty? These homeless people, who we sent them to the prosecutor, don't they have the same right as those who get the tip today? And do you just do it to attract their trust or actually take them out if everything doesn't go well and lead us to the elections? Also, the second thing I wanted to ask you and which is very important to me: what are the measures you have taken so that on 21st or 22nd December this particular gift can be given? You know very well - because this Karugali legislation is so solid and coherent that today it will be necessary with most of the articles in this bill to correct it and bring it to certain limits, so that it can be applied - that there is the provision of Article 51, which says that the ECA is running on 1-1-2017 and with Article 100 of the transitional provisions of the same law, you say that until then there is a temporary administration and a temporary commander, which is the commander of IKA, and he has specific responsibilities. Among these specific responsibilities, which do nothing but prepare the functioning of this system from 1-1-2017, neither the approval nor the payment of these benefits are included. So tell me, because we happen to know each other and I know that you have a professional legal status: What Commissioner of the Court of Auditors will approve the payment of this amount on 21 and 22 December?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u144	Don't you want to give it to us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u145	So, you're saying we won't give it up?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u146	So you have made such decisions about what I said earlier about your love for authority, which has brought you into such a situation, so that you are completely inappropriate for precautions. That is why I am telling you that there is also some elementary obligation, which the ministers have, to respect this Chamber and, above all, to listen without interrupting it. Because here you are a guest government. Here - I say it for once - it is a parliament, it is a parliament and it is dedicated to the exercise of popular sovereignty. This exercise of popular sovereignty is guaranteed by us, by the representatives of the Greek people, who, as you said before, do not understand. Now listen to something else, which is just as serious: in which civilised country and especially in which country a left-wing party, who wants to be completely foreign to what was preceded by the parties of the past, we would have the phenomenon that we have already informed yesterday: the Public Power Corporation, which manages state money, that is to say the money of the taxpayers, for whom you are very much inclined, does not declare a political appeal against accused persons who are accused of illegally collecting money from them, who are the property of the Greek people. And if this is not called unbelievable service, completed by omission, I would like to know, in your view, Mr. Secretary, what it is called. So don't tell me that's worthless. Because, just from the absence of PPC as a civil action, it will be decided whether the court has all the necessary documents and evidence needed to lead to a fair judgment. So, here in the absence, with PPC failing to take part in this trial, it not only violates its duties, but mainly leads obviously - and attempts to do so - justice in an erroneous crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u147	What you're hitting the seat. Are you going to try us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u148	So all this, because you listen to me and you laugh, and your laughter, I would like, personally, because I respect you and appreciate you, being the seed, when it comes into the field. Sadly, however, he has no power but the power of foolishness. So having you the power and authority to listen to a congressman and laugh, means that some others who trusted you in this position did not have the great care they should have, to respect the Greek people, who gave me the right to represent here...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u149	Tell me about your people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u150	Please don't have a dialogue. Mr. Javarra, we've been over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u151	I didn't even hear a word about the bill!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u152	Of course we're talking about the bill. Because all that I've said is about the bill, in this simple sense. That the bill is nothing else...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u153	Did you say a word about the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u154	I said, you didn't get it. I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u155	It's not my character to interrupt, but I'm offended by what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u156	The bill, therefore, is a tough way under the cover of love for poverty and poverty, to bring the corrections made by Katorugalou reform, which has proved to be the only one that does with the forty articles contained in the bill and for which none of you have mentioned, is simply changing labels. It does nothing else, it creates no new organograms. The worst thing I can say is that on the basis of Article 53, to operate this system, we have to wait for both the organograms and the regulations, which he saw, when you can make them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Javarra, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u158	I shall conclude, Mr President. So we expect one of the next provisions, which you will bring and tell us that the current system will still be in force for two, three more years. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, too. I would like to say, above all, to the Ministers of State or Government, that the debate is provided for in a parliamentary procedure, with secondary, tertiary and so on. They cannot answer every Member, because then he will also have the right to return. We shall proceed with the independent MEP Mr Theocharis Theocharis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u161	For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, I am personally upset because I am being renounced as a non-parliamentary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u163	Oh, no. That's personal. Wait a minute, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u164	No, I'm not. I'm not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u165	Here you represent the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u166	Please! If it is personal, which has escaped me, Mrs Fotou, please refer for a minute, but not a reply to what Mr Javarras said in his political criticism. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u167	I, Mr President, protest at the moment because I am a non-parliamentary, while I am a Member of Parliament elected by this Greek people. I have been a Member of the European Parliament for so long as it has not been elected and has been persecuting the Members of Parliament. A prisoner of this. I am a Member of Parliament for so long, when, while he is a representative of the Officerial Representation, he has not said a word about the bill in which he is a parliamentary representative. That's a disgrace. It's never happened in the Greek Parliament, where I am.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u168	Wait a minute, Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u169	And Mr. Petropoulos has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u170	I believe that in all my speech I have decliningly taken the floor. It must now be said that I am characterised by ridiculousness and that Mr Javarras tell me this, rather it is an abuse of the position to invoke the popular will, because he is a Member of Parliament, to refer to me with impediment. I don't think it's an honor for the people and your office to tell me that I'm ridiculous and I'm making ridiculous. Yes, I have the privilege, because I am very well inside, yes, I smile when I hear you say about all your friends who gave them jobs, get the benefits of PPC and what happened with the known companies, tell us here in the government what we did and I don't know what happened. Are you talking about a poor precursor and PPC didn't go as a political lawsuit? Because your political friends, who have been grabbed and gone, are well known. Don't blame us. It's too bad to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u171	Names to tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u172	Tell us the name, so I can figure out what he's talking about. And finally...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u173	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u174	Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Cryazides, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u176	You've found the trick. Because, indeed, I am not a Member of Parliament, you have the impression that you each time, when I say something, will deny me the floor, because I am not a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u177	I didn't say anything about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u178	You did so with your representatives, when I had the right, as I had the right, as a competent minister, to an insurance company and threatened that the New Democracy would leave the Chamber, because we do not keep its own. And I smiled and was punished then again. You've come up with this, fighting whoever has an opinion. Forget about this regime.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u179	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u180	Yes, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u181	I don't know, it's a very good method when we can't answer what we're told to change the subject of discussion. So I didn't even say about Mrs. Fotio that she was not a Member of the European Parliament. I said that here it is in the Minister's capacity, and this quality is the one that supersedes and defines both its word and its behaviour. So this is a retreat of the Member's status.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u182	Oh, well...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u183	Not like that, though. We won't be able to continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u184	"Oh, no" don't tell me. Tell anyone else who may have the same knowledge on these matters. Don't say it to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u185	What do you mean, "the same knowledge"?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u186	What you can understand is why 'a' is not an expression for Parliament. It could be for your associations. It is not an expression of my ‘hm’, ma'am.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u187	You will not choose when I am Minister and when I am a MP.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u188	With regard to the matter that the State Secretary has said, I criticised the government and I do not care whether it is or is not a Member of Parliament. What I care about is that I speak as a congressman here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u189	All right, Mr. Javarra. Thank you. Let's move on to Mr. Theochari. I'm sorry I wronged you. You have the floor, too, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u190	Thank you anyway, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the Ministry of Labour trying to do with today's draft law, which brings it to the vote? Firstly, it establishes a national mechanism for dealing with poverty and social exclusion in our country. Bigglow! Secondly, it introduces changes to the Social Solidarity Income, and thirdly it promotes changes and clarifications in the Katrugalos Act, a very recent law. Governments over the years have failed to tackle the problem of poverty and social exclusion. You do the same, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, as your policies have neither a goal nor a strategy. Feature is the Minimal Guaranteed Income, which in 2015 you buried, to bring it to us now. In 2015, which was your year, ladies and gentlemen of the Partnership, the rate of extreme poverty in Greece ranged to 15% and one out of 10 people were only receiving the unemployment benefit. The Greek social protection system has proved inappropriate for handling emergencies, not because it was poor. In 2010 we were on the European Union's average, with 29.1% of GDP compared with 29.4%. It proved inappropriate due to ineffectiveness. While social benefits in the European Union have reduced poverty by 9.5%, in our country, unfortunately, only 3.9% were the corresponding result, i.e. two and a half times as much. In the Greek social state, bureaucratic mechanisms favouring customer relations are reigning, while anyone who avoids tax declares lower incomes and is being subsidised from the top through benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, your bill merely gives you an aspirin to fight against the carcinoma that has spread into the system of social solidarity. What are you doing? You extend from 1-1-2017 the social solidarity allowance to all municipalities in the country, while limiting the categories of beneficiaries. What else are you doing? Recruitment, recruitment, recruitment! Thirty-nine in the Directorate-General for Welfare, at the cost of 864 million, countless consultants, seven hundred fifty places coming to the community centers of the municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, in our bill you describe a pharanonic information system, when the President of the HICP himself described another, a modern information system. Consistent with each other at last! Also, make new information systems while you close or rattle the existing ones, "ELIO" and "ERGANI". You almost shut down Macedonian airport and we had to ask a question to correct Mr. Spirtz these mistakes he made. You are persecuting hundreds of businesses every day in Romania, Bulgaria, Cyprus. I was before the Athens Commercial Association and I was told how many thousands of businesses are leaving.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u191	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u192	To combat poverty and social exclusion, what is needed is building the social state and the economy from the outset. How can this be done? With the attraction of investment and new capital for job creation. According to “ERGANI”, only in November 2016 were thirty-seven thousand sixty-seven jobs lost, which is a five-year-old negative record. To reduce poverty and social exclusion, political stability, rapid and impartial administration of justice, stable legal and regulatory environment, reduced bureaucracy, lack of corruption, reduced taxes and costs, as well as a lack of economic surprises. It is also necessary to evaluate and target social inclusion and social cohesion policies for vulnerable groups of the population, so that there is a fair management of the available social resources, the money of the Greek people, which gives them blood and tears. Ladies and gentlemen, I know I speak in a foreign language for you. In our insurer Catrugalo you have sold to the great reform of EVA, the Fund, as well as the single pension calculation. You are today abolishing or postponing EVA indefinitely, which you degrade him to a sign under which you are actually putting the existing addresses of the Ministry, EVA, OHIM, ADD, IKA and the other funds. So when we were accusing you of sloppyness, you said the charges were unfair. Now we read that the contributions of the free professionals will also be calculated with the incomes of 2015, because the revenues of 2016 do not come out and so Mrs Ahtsoglou will bring us a new amendment in order to correct the unsympathetic ones. You do not understand, ladies and gentlemen, the real problem of insurance. People do not want the distribution system that is currently in place, i.e. the employee to pay the pensioner. On the contrary, he wants his money to catch a place, to have a reasonable rate of return, as if he had put it in the bank. He wants a reserve system. He wants to believe that someday he'll retire. Now he doesn't believe it, and that's why he chooses black. See the recent presentation of the Nektario-Tenius proposition, if you've had any ideas. Do something! Mr. Petropoulos was in this presentation. Let's get her! Only with a sustainable solution to the insurance issue, with investment that will create jobs and growth, will we be able to effectively combat poverty and social exclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Chakalotos told us that the International Monetary Fund is stubborn with the truth. Why? Because he said that the government agreed to 3.5%, while Mr Tsakalotos said he has not agreed to anything. Really? Your third memorial doesn't say 3.5%? Aren't you celebrating for a year now that you finally got 3.5%, while previous governments had 4.5%? Here's the evidence. I will submit for the minutes page 14 of the first evaluation report bearing your signature, the official document. I read and translate: "In relation to the primary surplus, Greece will achieve 0.5% of GDP"...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u193	This is about 2018!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u194	Wait, Mr. Colleague, listen: "In 2016, 1.75% in 2017 and 3.5% in 2018. Greece will then retain 3.5% of the primary surplus over a ten-year period and gradually reduce it to 1.5%. So take it, teach and read! [[At this point, the Member, Mr Theocharis Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These are your signature. So let go of the lies! No one believes them anymore. So you don't like it now, so your signature and you say it doesn't come out of the program. So, Shoeble tells you? He's given you the rope you hung yourself. Last year, didn't you agree, Mr. Chakaloto? What's changed now? And unfortunately, Mr Tsakalotos has no argument, and that is why he will endure and accept new measures. Ladies and gentlemen, you are giving the retired and dare to call them the thirteenth pension. One month's pensions are 2.4 billion, and you dare say the 600 million third pension. You don't retire to those who wait for her for years. You do not support two hundred thousand children living in families without a single worker, live in families without income. You do not give more than a year of VAT to exporting enterprises. You don't give 7 billion late. You do not pay attention to the problems of the Greek people. You don't give him hope after all! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras also chose an island to lie to the Greek people. He said yesterday from Nishro: "We will keep the programme to antenna." First of all, it made this statement and then said: 'We will not ask, but no one will be asking what to do with the surpluses'. That is right, we have seen with this bill what you are doing with the surpluses: Recruitment! We have seen with the loans of the Attica Bank what you are doing with the surpluses. Loan to friends manufacturers! We saw with the mandate you gave PPC not to attend the felony trial of trade unionists accused of stealing it, stealing the Greek people, what do you do with the surpluses: Traveling for workers! Be sure, however, that as we have seen it and the Greek people will reward you as you deserve! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr Theocharis Theocharis, Independent MEP. Mr Georgios Papaliou, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes similarly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Members of the House of Representatives and in particular of the New Democracy have spoken a great deal and some of the designations have been given offensive to both our colleagues and to the institution to which we belong. Something else has been said, if I am not mistaken, by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, that we need to show political courage.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u197	You're wrong. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u198	I'm reversing it to him. The New Democracy must have political bravery in order to recognise its enormous responsibilities for the birth of the crisis, for its worsening and for the situation in which the country has come. However, a common denominator of the attitude of the Opposition and the New Democracy and the PASOK is their decision to vote in favour of the bill, but at the same time to attack the draft law on all matter. In this respect, there is a contradiction, which is explained by their embarrassment, because they do not dare to vote against a bill of a social nature. The bill comes to address the poorening of broad social strata, poverty caused by neoliberal austerity policies and led by the Governments of New Democracy and PASOK. It is also a reason why they do not dare vote against it, because they realise that the Greek people know that the cause of their poverty is their governments. This is a kind of inseparable confession of their responsibilities. The bill is an expression of the social character of government policy. It is not an isolated part of the government's social policy. It is a link between a chain of targeted social interventions, which have been voted on at present's governance. The adoption of this draft law does not only constitute a contractual obligation of the country. For the SYRIZA Government, it is an ideological, moral and political obligation to deal with phenomena of extreme poverty and social exclusion, due, I repeat, to neoliberal austerity policies. Priority is given to addressing extreme poverty and social exclusion, starting with the most vulnerable groups. The national mechanism for coordinating, monitoring and evaluating social inclusion and social cohesion policies established by this draft law is a project that has not been carried out for years. It is foreseen by the national strategy on social inclusion. It will be implemented in the respective action plan and will at the same time operate at three levels, governmental, regional and municipal level, which communicate with each other, since this national mechanism is based on and linked to the single geo-information system. In order to monitor, coordinate, evaluate social inclusion and social cohesion policy, there will be a system of common indicators and an evaluation methodology. In an effective way, the actions of all actors involved in social inclusion and social cohesion policy will be monitored and monitored. At the same time, the experience and know-how of both the public sector and private bodies in the context of social policy will be exploited. Citizens will be able to put their demands in a dignified position and have a direct response, without looking for non-State intermediaries, in order to provide citizens with the information, services and benefits they are entitled to. Under the social policy of the Government, the arrangement based on the Prime Minister's recent announcement of a one-off financial assistance horizontally and counter-symmetrically to pensioners who receive a monthly pension of less than EUR 850 is included. A total of EUR 670 million will be allocated, which constitutes exceptional expenditure for the financial year 2016. This is not a surplus, therefore, as the Vice-Presidents of the Commit tee on Representation have inaccurately claimed, but a surplus of revenue. The attempt of counter-population to depreciate this financial support does not work. Now, as far as the social solidarity benefit is concerned, it is an allowance granted to our most deprived citizens throughout Greece for some seven hundred thousand citizens, while so far they have been piloted by a certain number of municipalities. The granting of the social solidarity allowance ensures an elementary decent income for living and promotes the survival and basic socio-economic integration of the beneficiaries. The conclusions of the evaluation of previous pilot applications as well as the conclusions from the programme to combat the humanitarian crisis implemented during the two years that passed were incorporated into the revised social solidarity benefit programme. However, social solidarity benefit is not the only financial aid to combat extreme poverty. It is also accompanied by benefits in kind and in social care services, as well as by measures to promote employment. One final comment on the community centres founded in two hundred and fifty-four municipalities of all regions except the Peloponnese, unfortunately. These are cells at the level of primary local government of the national coordination, monitoring and evaluation mechanism for social inclusion and social cohesion policies. The choice of primary selfgovernment is due to the self-evident proximity of this to the citizen, and as a result of the more precise information that the municipality has about the economic and social situation of the beneficiaries. In this way, more effective information, support and promotion are achieved on the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is extremely important because it is voted under specific economic and social conditions and I would therefore say that it is absolutely necessary. It is also part of SYRIZA's worthy load as a party on the Radical Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr. Papaliou. We're on our way with Mrs. Maria Therleritis, SYRIZA MP, for seven minutes. And then Mr. Yoyakas will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill that comes to cover needs, deficits and gaps in the existing institutional framework for social policy. It is also a bill resulting from the great need to change the institutional framework for social policy. Here too, it is true that it is also really coming to adopt and legislate provisions of the revised European Charter - Article 30 - and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union - Article 34. I am talking about the colleague of Officerial Responsibility, where for five years the Civilian Opposition has not wanted to adopt these provisions on social protection. In fact, we come at this time, at a time when Europe is changing towards the worst and most conservative through neoliberal policies, with this bill that adopts and protects the institutional framework for social protection. And not only does it protect, but it also lays foundations for coordination that will help no overlap of policies and responsibilities, where so far they have characterized the whole part of social welfare. It also comes to implement and support what is envisaged through the three main pillars of the national social policy strategy, which is combating poverty, so as to ensure a decent standard of living for our fellow people, access to services, so that it is possible to provide health care advice, care, psychological and social support to people who need such services, and of course the job market inclusive, through active employment policies. And yes, we are today voting on this bill on the first two pillars, and we are adopting the extension of the Social Income Programme not only for thirteen municipalities which were also provided for in a study to the heights of the previous government. Today we are applying it for all the municipalities in the country, so that in this period of austerity and neoliberal policies, we can deal with extreme poverty. We are also creating the National Instrument for Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of Political Integration and Social Cohesion, that is to say the national mechanism, as is called and listed in Articles 1 to 21, so that we finally have effective and efficient social services and actions. In particular, the creation of the national mechanism will give us and guarantee us a quality social welfare system and will finally put an end to what exists in the current social welfare system. What was the case, ladies and gentlemen, until now? To a small and large extent, all services, direct dependence on central government, and indeed, irrationally, limited to the level of benefits and quality, overlapping, mismanagement of limited social resources that we have had, the absence of social consultation and transparency, and no coordination and evaluation, which could be through a long-term programming that we are trying to do, give another development in social protection. Of course, this whole anarchist also allowed cases of corruption to be created. We are therefore adopting the National Mechanism at three levels, precisely as we should, at the central level with a definite character, in regional and local, strengthening these decentralised structures, giving a much more active role to local government agencies. After all, we couldn't do any different, because this is the level that is closest to the citizen, and so it can make this diagnosis of needs much better. We also all know that the exercise of social policy at local level was carried out by all three levels of administration - both from the state and from the region and from the municipalities - and this was done in a way of overlapping structures and programmes. This has to end sometime. So this comes and adopts national coordination. It coordinates these three policies from the three levels of administration. Also, what it does, and in conjunction with the reform that is under way in local government, namely by identifying the competences which belong to which of the three levels of administration, I think we will resolve to a significant extent the lack of coordination in the exercise of social policy at local level. Finally, as far as the organisation of this system is concerned at three levels, as I said before, the state at last provides the central core of the national mechanism with the welfare of the Ministry of Labour and with two addresses, social inclusion and cohesion and the fight against poverty. Twelve contact points are created with co-operating and social inclusion policies Ministries and this ensures horizontal coordination. At regional level, we are creating the region's social care department together with the thirteen regional social inclusion observatories, which will coordinate and specialise both the national social inclusion strategy and the regional strategy and reflect poverty and social exclusion at regional level, in cooperation with the municipal social protection office, which will collect all the data and information at local level, because it knows much better and can make a better diagnosis of needs, so that we have a coordination at all levels. Finally, we also give the municipalities community centres, which are reference points and contact points, where the citizen will go and serve for all social services, whether they concern benefits, programmes or other types of services. All this is created in all the capital cities of the municipality, except for the Peloponnese Region, where the agreement with the Ministry was not reached. Unfortunately, in the Peloponnese region, the figure is less - the resources, that is, it is EUR 367,200 compared to the € 738 000 that the Ministry gives - and with fewer workers, that is, six against thirteen. This is not all, but movable units are also being created and not normally Community centres in the seats of the municipalities. Finally, I would like to say that serious consultation bodies are also being set up to design and coordinate these social policies where vulnerable groups are involved, but coordination is also being made with regard to the objectives of the national strategy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There are three levels here, namely the national committee designed to promote the dialogue, the regional consultation committee and the municipal consultation committee. These committees have a purely consultative character. In this way we also ensure the participation of vulnerable groups. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u201	The end, however, should be the end of this time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u202	Yes, Mr. President. I'll finish this. Finally, it provides tools for this exercise of social policy, such as the single geographical information system, where all policies from whatever level are recorded. Also, in terms of evaluation, there are indicators for monitoring social inclusion, so that we can really see that resources have landed as we will have very detailedly how many of the population of socially excluded may have joined. There is also the regional welfare system for the citizen within the National Centre for Social Solidarity. This bill achieves a very serious step towards our country's social protection system, because it is taking place in a decentralised multi-level system, with a long-term national planning, with tools, networking the vulnerable social groups and networking the services for better coordination between government and local government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Thalerite. We proceed with Mr. Vassiliou Yoyakas, Member of the New Democracy, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of talk at committee meetings on the first part of the bill on the national mechanism to monitor and coordinate social inclusion and social cohesion policies. I would like to remind you that this mechanism was a prerequisite for the national social inclusion strategy prepared by the New Democracy Government in 2014. After all, the same government had prepared the application of the minimum guaranteed income, which I would remind you that SYRIZA until then had described crustaceans of state charity. Today it regains it, renamed it to social incomes of solidarity. A National Mechanism is therefore necessary to enable all kinds of privileged benefits to be directed to those who must, when they must know and know all the players involved in government, regions and municipalities who are taking and what they are taking. We have expressed our reservations about whether this mechanism can function as it is designed, because it adds central services to the relevant Ministry where there are already services with similar responsibilities, because it provides for two different structures in the region with approximately common responsibilities and for setting up a National Committee for Social Protection, and there is already the Governing Council for Social Policy. In order to have fun with these doubts, the Minister focused on the role of the Community centres which wish to operate as first-stage points, while the beneficiaries of allowances can be served - and they are already - by the social services of the municipalities. Let the funding for the operation of these centres be made by the current NSRF, i.e. without guaranteeing their funding in the ultimate future. I would like to make one final comment on the national mechanism. The single geo-information system is indeed a very ambitious project. To succeed, it should be interconnected in the best possible way with all computer systems, so that different elements can be easily and quickly crossed. The most difficult is the integration of the registries and regions' registries' registers for actions and benefiting social policies. The other part of the bill, the non-preferential, which refers to the Single Social Security Agency and other applicable provisions of Law No.4387 of the Katrugalo Law, actually tells us one thing that changes to insurance are being mobilised. Insurance reform is not reform. Instead of the government having the new agency of the FBI ready, it is changing the label to the regional agencies of the various insurance funds. He will say that we have a Single Entity as of January 1st 2017, when he refers the organogram to the unknown future. How will the new ECA be established? Not by a presidential decree - which means that it has been passed before the crisis of the Council of State - but by a ministerial decision. There are also various changes that confirm the many problems of the Katrugalo Law, let alone when ministerial decisions are pending and circulars on which it depends when and how much pension will get thousands of people insured. Knowing are the same services in insurance funds and in the State General Accounting Office, which say that this law is neither functional nor viable for both current and future pensioners. This is what the Higher General Confederation of Pensioners of Greece, on the basis of the amendment, Minister, on the one hand, to aid the low-pension pensioners, namely that the essential solutions are achieved with the appetite and willingness to solve the insurance and not with benefits for pensioners as children who wear a Christmas gift. We understand that for too many people the 'from the whole good and the Panagiotina' is true! That is why we shall vote on it. But it is not even the thirteenth pension, as some Members of the Com mittee insist that it be forged. So here is the amendment tabled by the former Minister, Mr Brutsi, on the thirteenth pension for the JRC, which has worked to give priority to those who do not have any other source of income. And, above all, it comes from the bleeding of taxpayers and pensioners, while the public's debts were pending pensions two and a half months ago touched 1.4 billion euros, according to the European Commission, We, ladies and gentlemen, expect the government to implement what is to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr Yoyakas Vasilis, Member of the New Democracy. We proceed with the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Ioannis Sahinidis, who has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President. Today, the bill could have the title of a Greek film, translated by "bricks in the cobbleds", in "heartbeats on the beads". We have seen that there have been reports from the New Democracy regarding the tabling of an amendment to the Communist Party. They're used to us anyway. Here's an old love! They are the ones who recognized the Communist Party. They're the ones doing a memorial to Mars Velouchiotis. And finally, they are the ones who co-governed. But what has never been mentioned in this Chamber is what had arisen from this coup d'état at the time. The only good thing New Democracy had done then was that it had exposed the Communist Party, because the ministries that had undertaken very simply had done nothing. That is why the former Secretary of the Communist Party has repeatedly stated that they do not care about power. That's it for the old days. There have been several references to this Chamber. However, there have been no references to the latest political developments. Mr President, before I refer to the draft law, let me refer to the statements made by your former Minister, Mr Paradise, who referred to democratisation. What is needed in this Chamber is indeed democratisation, but all the rest of the other than the Golden Dawn. The answer of our Secretary-General and Chief of State Mr.Nikolaos Michaloliakos - whom I will read to you on behalf of myself and to the minutes - was: "The badly paid mercenaries of the New Democracy in flirts and the internet, as well as official officials, who, on the occasion of the statement by the former Minister of Justice, Mr. Paradulou, see a symphony of the nationalist Golden Dawn with the Nationalist SYRIZA, are simply fools and are directed at idiots. On the subject, let those who have a question, read the book of the late Evangelos Lebasis "The enormous social significance of the fools in modern life". [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, it is only by chance that the statement by the former Minister of State, Mr Paradise, on the democratisation of our Movement, of course, and also by chance, the silence of the government and party SYRIZA, on the statements of Friday, could not be described. And as it was expected, after the non-response of the Left, that the people of the bread - right should flee from the opposite side and remind the Greek people of the evils that the Chrysayites have caused in this place. And it begins with a club - which has been giving birth to only brains who have been in extremism - about our movement and its relationships with the current government since 2014. In fact, Mr Kikilias spoke with a backbone and mentioned the conclusion of the Golden Dawn with SYRIZA, which caused the President of the Republic not to be elected, resulting in the fall of the Samara government, which we are proud of. But like us, Mr Kiklia, for our opinion has coincided with SYRIZA's opinion. Otherwise, if we were to vote 'yes' for the election of the President of the Republic, we would have concluded with you, with SYRIZA to rust today instead of you. Then they remembered Vutsi's statements when the bill on simple analogue was passed on to the "yes" and the votes of the Golden Dawn. With ludicrous and cheap political terrain he tries the once powerful political system to achieve hits under the belt in our movement. They're trying to get through to the world the impression that we have a common course with SYRIZA. They use simple actions of an institutional nature, such as the transition of our MPs to the remote islands or the choice of "yes" or "no" to the vote of the bills, to demonstrate the bad way taken by the Golden Dawn. When, of course, the Committee on Defence of the House meets in Parliament's building around a table, there is no 'emergency' - in introductory terms - with the Chrysantheites. But that is what happens when the committee comes out of the House. On the other hand, they tell us that our opinion in the bills should not have either a positive or a negative sign, because we are in danger either of having a common question or with the rulings or with the opposition, while we could well have all the bills that are passed in this House to vote 'the present' in order to avoid the months of our political opponents. We understand, gentlemen of the constitutional arch with the broken string, that it would very much attract you against the commands of those who have commanded you, as would us enter the House, upsetting you and bringing them down. And that's what we're doing. And we will continue to do so until we finish you politically once and for all. With regard to the newborn Chrysayada, which you bring to the fore, because there is a precedent for old Chrysayades, we remind you of something: once again you will eat your faces! You've already started your curse and you're making spasm moves like the ones that happen when the drowned one is caught by his hair. I should also like to refer to the invasion, as all the media have presented it, of six Members of the Golden Dawn at the U.S.S.A. We'll tell you why we did it. And it was not an invasion, but a peaceful activist energy, absolutely peaceful and dynamic. At the same time, there was a protest gathering, which we held at noon, members of the Golden Dawn, at the office of the EESC, where there were Turkish feasts on the subject: "The national minorities in Greece and the recommendations of the international organizations". At the panel of these speakers there was still a government presence, Minister, Mrs Giannakakis, who is Secretary General for Transparency and Human Rights, as well as the well-known Dimitris of the Helsinki Observatory, and the President of DEB, Javoz. We are talking about people who have played their leading role in anti-Greek actions and who gathered themselves to highlight the limitation of the rights of the Turkish minority in Greece. But for human rights in Turkey, all of them must be absolutely satisfied. This challenge even came at a time when Turkey threatens Greece by war, challenging our sovereignty in the Aegean Sea, the Greekity of our islands, but also trying to create tension in Thrace, as the pan-Hellenic allies saw Erdogan and EASE. A few dozen members of the Golden Dawn were enough to reveal to the Greeks these misery. With Greek flags and a slogan of "Thrace, Greek land", the nationalists gathered outside the entrance of the offices of the EESC on the street of the Academy and a delegation of competitors, including I and five other Members of the Golden Dawn, entered the hall of the event and reported openly to the organizers, while we stressed that there is absolutely no national minority based in the Treaty of Lausanne. There was an outrageous natural misinformation from the media and the CSCE which talked about violent raids and other phenomena, which, of course, denies the audiovisual material that we published. The protest we made in the Chamber was absolutely peaceful and aimed at denounce the event. As far as censorship has dared to emit in its press release, we say that we need a steadfast courage to speak of censorship, which the CSCE has never reacted to the total imprisonment of the third political force of this country from all the newspapers, as well as that we have no respect for its members who receive and witness the political persecution of the Golden Dawn. As for human rights and minorities, they could visit Turkey - and why not stay there themselves - to find out what status they support directly because of their hatred of Hellenism. For Greek nationalists, the country is above all and we will always be in the front line of the national race. So beneath, your hands from home. And I submit to the minutes a related article from our newspaper "SELECTION GROUP". [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the minutes this article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And now we're going to the draft law. A few days ago we had the Prime Minister's letter to the Greek people, where he had announced measures to relieve pensioners whose pension is up to 850 euros. Finally, this announcement by the Prime Minister comes as an amendment with a general number of 796 and a special 48 and has been tabled today. The People's Association - Golden Dawn will support this amendment, because we believe that from the horrendous conditions in which the Greek family lives, even a temporary relief measure, it will give a few smiles to Greek citizens, since at present a large proportion of the Greek families are based on the survival of the poor pensions received by the elderly. We are well aware, however, that this one-off payment of the aid is intended to deceive third-age voters. After you have imposed, ladies and gentlemen, unresponsive measures and taxes and after you have impoverished them, you are throwing them a scumbag in the belief that they will appreciate your move. You are fooling the distractors who are once again living the nightmare of their childhood with the deprivations they have experienced during the Occupation period. At that time, however, they knew that this was because they defended their homeland in a war. Today they are experiencing it, while the country is selling off. And here I will give you an example, because we always talk and have evidence. A pensioner of the OSCE, the former TEBE, who receives a pension of EUR 462,46 plus EUR 230 from the OSCE, goes to 692,46 euros. With the help that will be given to him, he'll get 1.092,46 euros. But what do you do from 1-1-2017? You are punishing these pensioners, cutting 50% of CSR, which means 115 euros. So 115 euros for twelve months makes us 1,380 euros. If we remove the 400 euros allowance you now give them for Christmas, you put your hand in their pocket - I'm sorry - and you get them an additional 980 euros. That's the money that retired people will lose after you give them a scumbag. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You're a fake humanist. Yesterday we heard from the President of Parliament - I conclude, Mr President - that 5 million euros that have been left out of Parliament's budget will go to illegal immigration. Legislation and decision with exclusive and unique guidance to illegal immigrants. And this is seen by all your policies, which have acted on the whole constitutional arch. A short time ago you even cut off an allowance, the allowance of the border region received by our soldiers and was in the order of 105 euros to the extent of the captain and 140 from the Captain's rank and above. In fact, because, as I said, we are always talking about data, this allowance has to do with the special body code 15310, and it was from the HR's budget, K0721 to 22 from the general budget of the European Union. You've taken money from where you can, to make it available to illegal immigrants only. This, gentlemen, is a crime against the poor Greek people. We had unemployment last month, in November, a loss of thirty-seven thousand sixty-seven. All these positions were from the private sector, not a post from the public sector. That's enough with your rescue and the measures of your development! We are the only guarantee for the welfare and security of Greek citizens. We are the only hope of the nation. We, the Greek nationalists, were born ready and committed that in the end we will win, because for us most of all it is home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and three teachers from the General School of Astros Arcadias. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To inform students and students that they are attending the workshop of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. Members of Parliament are given the floor by various parties. The Members' speaking time is seven minutes. The Member of the Communist Party of Greece will now speak, George Lambroulis, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. With the draft law being discussed, the government is developing a state mechanism in order to implement its social prostitutional policy, as it is proclaimed. But what policy is it talking about? What will this mechanism implement? It is therefore a question of implementing, promoting a specific policy, at the heart of which is the management of poverty in its most extreme forms, and indeed, at the minimum budgetary cost, but not of dealing with it. It concerns those that the government, like the previous governments, together with the European Union, lead to poverty and impoverishment, because that is what the capitalist development path of all parties is demanding. That requires the competitiveness of capital, that is, its profitability and the service of this road, that even the people's basic needs be abolished, that they continue to fight, that of spreading absolute and relative poverty. So, on the one hand, we have the mobilisation of extensive poverty within the capitalist economy and not in general and vaguely, as in the draft law's report, and on the other hand, the government, capital, the European Union, define state benefits at the lowest possible cost at the level of impoverishment and not on the basis that social benefits are a people's need and a right. This is the essence of the misery and barbarism of the government's and Euro-Union policy: on the one hand, to cut billions of euros from the poor, to smuggle wages, pensions, health benefits, welfare, medicines, and, on the other, to plunder the people's income and, on the other hand, to promise a few crumbs to the impoverished, for which it calls on the poor to give the impoverished, while at the same time trying to demarcation the dividing line of society, between those who are impoverished on the one hand and the rest of the populace on the other, and not between the producers of wealth and those who are polluting it, such as the business groups, monopolies. Indeed, the criterion of whether a provision is entitled to be granted will be what the government calls real needs - and it also appears from the rapporteur's report - a concept that it uses for propaganda. The aim is to incriminate as an exaggeration of the already inadequate state benefits, since for the government, the European Union, real needs are equivalent to the state of impoverishment, and only then will there be a minimum state contribution, as if all the other poor had and had state benefits in addition to their real needs. But, above all, the government's aim is to point the people even further down its demandingness, in other words to dismantle the people even the thought that they can claim the recovery of their losses, how much more to fight to satisfy their modern and ever-enlarged needs. In fact, he wants to reconcile and reconcile with poverty, without the expiry date. This is precisely what is meant by the mechanism, for which the Minister said it would last for years. In practice, I am passing away, meaning that either during the period of crisis or during the period of recovery will reign and multiply the poor and impoverished. In practice, does that not make the famous Social Solidarity Income, the CRL? It therefore trains a four-member family to live with 13.3 euros a day and requires it to reconcile with the idea that this money should be fed and serve all its vital needs. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of the government and the rest of the co-population or opposition of the other parties, which support this development path, all other parties except the Communist Party of Greece, are you living with this money? Of course not. That's what you're gonna say. Of course, according to Mrs Fotio, it can also be destroyed if she takes 200 euros in money. Because if so, it will be - he says - better in kind. And that's not all. The implementation of welfare policy, through the new Mechanism, requires the abolition of a number of benefits, which are given up until now, so that the Social Income of Solidarity will become the main lever of support for the poor and poor. Aren't the OECD directives, as are the guidelines of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank to abolish the number of allowances and replace them with the Social Income of Solidarity? Is that not why the third memorandum predicted the EUR 900 million cut per year from welfare budget expenditure in order to support the CRL from this money? Now, if it is a Memorandum of Understanding or not, as you said, Minister, the issue is that it applies anti-grassroots, barbaric memorial policies. It is provided for in the Memorandums. But, even before this Memorandum, did the CSCE and the Disabled Certification Centres not constitute a slaughter industry and a reduction in disability rates, by extension of allowances and disability pensions? The claim that no allowance is to be cut is one of the well-known ‘Syria’ terminology and tricks, as such strict criteria are established on paper that may exist at one or the other, but the number of beneficiaries may be drastically reduced or those who retain the right to take much less than before. In fact, as the Minister in her position said, this mechanism will act as a 'batch' of the impoverished people who, in the name of reintegration, will be offered 10% as a obscene labour force, i.e. free workers in business groups, while at the same time subsidising their costs and of course lose any benefits from the CRL. This policy, these plans and measures of the government, capital and the European Union rejects the Communist Party of Greece, a policy that shapes, on the one hand, extensive poverty and, on the other, defines state benefits at the level of impoverishment. Today - and we say it clearly to the people - there are the material conditions and possibilities for our people to live by satisfying their modern needs. For this to happen, these material conditions must function in social property and not atomic conditions, as is the case today. That is why the Communist Party calls on the people not to compromise with poverty and misery, but to claim everything they have taken it, especially in recent years, but everything that belongs to it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Mr Alexandros Triantafylliides, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. I think that anyone who follows the Minister of Theano Fotio in an impartial and objective way could say a lot. I have learned, in addition to the political structures and functions, to support people who give their souls for what they do and one of these people is Theanos Fotio, who has given the committee a message, to put all together a back on what is the necessary and capable treaty for this to happen. All you haven't accused us of is that we put the country in the memorandum. We found her there after five years. The aim is to get everyone across, not to be left behind, so the perception of this policy is not the policy of the noble company, nor the charity, nor the opportunity to give, a telephone that must support at holidays near Easter, Christmas, the unemployed, the homeless, the deprived, etc. That's not our logic. Our logic, as codified by Theanos Fotio, is a dual function, a dual, daily concern and anxiety, to be next to the man the weak, the unemployed, the homeless, the poor, the poor, to form a huge hug, a huge network of solidarity and humanity all around Greece with an established and specific policy, with structures, with functions, with overall and collective mobilisation of society, not of mercy. This is the one side. The other side, in response to what was heard a moment ago, is the preparation through recovery, the retreat of those who were outside the production process back to work, the productive reconstruction of the country. It provides for it and I think it gives a measured percentage, 10% of the eligible unemployed, beneficiaries of the CRL who will enter the labour market with OAD programmes and pilot projects in our Ministry's employment portfolio. I mean, we don't say take 200 to 400 euros and stay there. We're saying that's the least. Is it too much? No, it's a little bit. For the country, it's for the country that he can give from the cozy. And that's where we come to micropsy, micronomiality, about what the Prime Minister announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u211	As long as the cigarettes of an industrialist!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u212	And it is true to wonder how the 2016 EUR 158 million cut-off was the huge amount and the sum of EUR 617 million, with this amendment, are crumbs! Is this the 617m euro crumbs? I agree that it's the least, it's a breathless breath, only to spend the holidays, to stand up a society of six hundred thousand people, where Grandpa and Grandma will get the 850 euros and give them to the unemployed daughter, the unemployed son, the grandchildren. These messages we had in our offices. That's not a concession. It is the least we have to do so that we do not consider ourselves unaltered, so that the policy as a whole is not considered to be based on the attitude of everyone for themselves, the 'every one for all' has become 'all for anyone and everyone for himself'. It's the least we could do. Some of us said it's a thirteenth pension. Isn't it? So, what were the thirteenth pensions? It has been so long since you abolished both the thirteenth and fourteenth. Isn't it the exact equal of Christmas and half of Easter? Did you forget that? So soon you forget and put it in the timeline of history what Easter and Christmas present means? An entire salary at Christmas and half of Easter!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u213	That is what our amendment says in it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u214	This one? And it is good that your amendment does, but you have the right thing to do. That's where we're headed. At this stage, however, it is possible. And they started saying about the crumbs of 617 million euros and, on the other hand, about the huge CSCE. The EUR 617 million has been the CSR for five years. The CSCE for five, according to them, is crustaceans, while the CSCE alone is huge, for the early eighty-nine, twelve months, which for the CSCE eighty-nine thousand seventy-seven rightholders have also taken the compensatory money for a month and a half. I come to the vote and vote. When Tsipras learned - and the government learned - that since the public, public frequencies on private channels received or was going to receive 248 million euros it was the first to think about distribute them to vulnerable groups. We had elections then! Why didn't you say it two days later when Tsipras came out of northern Greece and said that what we'll get from the channels - no matter what evolution the case would have, we'll see who was right - will we distribute them? That's not what you can understand from that wing. And I'm not talking about the JRC. For election clientele only you cut 450m euros inscribed bills from the public. In other words, you got from the supposedly planned surplus by cutting off government bills to give them to your election clientele. Against this comes a policy that gives for the humanitarian crisis 105m euros in the 2015 budget, 250m euros in the 2016 budget, 617m euros with the thirteenth pension and 760m euros with the CRL. Total, EUR 1,745 million. They're crumbs! I will agree with you, but it is what the country can do at this stage. I heard Mrs. Theanos Fotio saying something they didn't answer. He said: “You gave 450 million by non-transparent procedures. We still don't know who took them." "Other procedure is the process of community centres that if a community does not inform and does not say that this month no one came," said Theano Fotio - "we will have to see exactly what is going on, why no beneficiary went there to claim it." One hundred and twenty-five allowances from twelve, fifteen bodies. This reminded me, Mr. Petersburg, of the ninety-three ways in which IKA's pension came out. Nine hundred and sixty-three ways were there! And now it becomes one, transparent, equal to everyone. Just like that. Why? Because we don't have the next election in mind. We don't want to raise money in our party fund from Missens 2% and 8%. Us, our only ambition is when we come down to the world to meet his smile and believe me, a secret smile begins slowly for 2017 to be neat. Don't steal the smile of Greek citizens! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, too. We proceed with SYRIZA's MP, Socrates Vardakis, who has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the country's governance by the SYRIZA Government - ILE one of the immediate priorities was the regulation of the social protection network, where for many years there has been only a steady reduction in the social budget and no strengthening of the social protection network. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] This draft law includes arrangements for social solidarity and illustrates our strategy for implementing a social protection plan with strategic axes to support the most vulnerable groups of the population, reforming the welfare state, increasing the services provided and modernising the structures. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has a social person and it proves it every day in order to help in fragile strata. The draft law under discussion incorporates a number of critical interventions, such as the full expansion of the CRL to households living in poverty. In addition to the arrangements of social solidarity, there are also applicable provisions of Law4387/2016 in this bill. By the May Insurance Act, the EESC was established, with the main aim of ensuring decent living and social protection in terms of equality, social justice, redistribution and solidarity of generations. The integration of all the main insurers into the ECA will substantially improve the services provided to insured and retired persons and at the same time its operation will allow for the creation of an efficient tax evasion and uninsured work control system. Procedures are simplified to enhance transparency, reduce bureaucratic costs and allow the easier and faster awarding of pensions. Insurance reform is radically simplifying the system and improving efficiency. Chapter C' is intended to ensure the proper functioning of the ECAI and to ensure the services of insured and retired persons. The aim is to move smoothly from the old to the new regime, taking into account the interests of those insured in existing facilities and information systems, the smooth integration of staff, so as not to disturb the operation of the socio-security system. This provision clarifys how the services of the ECAA are organised and further issues of its organisational structure. The services of the existing bodies are part of the structure of the services of the ECA and are composed in an organisational framework by forming a single social security system structure. Ladies and gentlemen, the economic and social crisis of the past few years has made it imperative to delineate and implement a plan. Clearly, then, we now understand which government is gearing towards a strong social policy, a government with strategic axes, a government aimed at the welfare state.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u217	Mr Stoyannides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, entitled "National Mechanism for Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of Political Integration and Social Cohesion, regulations on social solidarity and implementing provisions of Law 4387/2016 (A'85). A third party listening to the fact that today we are legislating a mechanism for pre-innovation allowances, for organising more generally the pre-innovation state, would he wonder: 'But, until now, have there been no governments to organize this state? Is it possible in 2016 that Greece will first come to legislate a mechanism that integrates all the privileges with which Greek citizens can learn their rights? If that's possible! These people who ruled so lowly were mentally"? I'd say no! On the contrary, they had a lot of brains, but, unfortunately, they used it for other purposes. They did not intend to organize the state with dignity. They were not meant to be worthy, the rule of law. The purpose was to organize a client state. They did that. We are giving them "congratulations". That's the reality. They wanted all citizens to go through the MP's bench, as one would say quite simply. We just want the opposite. Do not let citizens pass through the Members' offices. Citizens will go to the public services, where they have the merit of taking what they are entitled to. So that regulates this law. So this is the law we all have to support. Even those who have ruled over the previous years, finally, let them be political and not micro-political. I would like to make a small reference to the amendment on the one-off amount allocated, which is exceptionally from the economic objective set. We are not celebrating this, but we are sure that the situation of the poor Greeks, the low pensioners, is in great need. We're giving 617 million. They may seem little, but for those who need it and the minimum, it's something very important. We also prove something else that our aim is always to support the impossible finances. Another issue that exists in this bill is the establishment of two hundred and fifty four community centres in the municipalities. What will these community centres do? They will be served with officials in the municipalities and citizens will have the opportunity to come to these trained officials, to explain their rights in detail about the state's benefits or other benefits of a preferential nature, and until now, for them to be informed, they have had to put an instrument in a parliamentary office. Another issue that is regulated concerns Social Income of Solidarity. The Social Income of Solidarity we know that pilots have been implemented by previous PASOK and New Democracy governments as a monumental obligation in thirteen municipalities. We will now implement it throughout Greece. In the seven hundred thousand we estimate that the number of people in need will reach. This also proves something else that this country has arrived very low. Citizens have fallen too low. Our aim is not to increase this figure. Our aim is to reduce the number, because we believe that man should have work, cannot live on pre-school allowances. That is why we need to introduce him into the labour market. There is one fear that many are expressing it and called 'the trap of poverty'. In other words, giving the Social Income of Solidarity may some people think: "Why not work black for 300 euros? So I will be working less time, I will also take social income and get a small wage." There is no doubt that the state should intervene and constantly monitor that there are no violations. We believe that we also have an obligation to ensure this as a state. With social income of solidarity we support our citizens who are below the poverty line. There are also transitional provisions relating to the single social security institution. As you know, a few months ago we passed the law with which we unite all the funds into one. This is a very big project, a colossal project. I'm sure from time to time we'll meet issues that will need corrections. Here, then, there are some corrections that are positive. I cannot mention a provision which says that when a selfemployed person is employed as a parttime employee, the premiums which he pays will be deducted from the overall obligation he has a month to pay will be deducted. That is a positive provision. So why not accept it? I think this helps a lot of free professionals. To close, I want to refer to the elastic forms of employment. They come from New Democracy and PASOK and tell us that the elastic forms of employment have increased. They forget to tell us who has legislated them in this country the flexible forms of employment. They also forget to tell us that from six months ago, which was the employer's right until 2010 to unilaterally impose rotational employment, they posted it in 2010 to nine months a year. So we have come to have a unilateral imposition of rotation, for example one day a week, a worker working four days a month and saying that he is a worker, counting him in the wonderful systems that record the work. So let the New Democracy, which is being cut so much for flexible forms of employment, tell us what is the proposal? Let's get her to the House to see her. Does he want us to abolish them? How can we remove them? Disappear them? Let's get her to the House. Let's stop mocking the civilians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u219	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u220	Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u221	Madam President, we have been informed that the ERT has transferred that the JRC, apart from the Golden Dawn, did not vote for the work of the Ministry of Labour's amendment on the financial support for pensioners. We think it's a misery, a filthy provocation against the JRC, so the JRC can't deal with it. Our position is very clear that we are also voting on this amendment and on the amendment that delivers concessions to the beneficiaries of the ECE. ERT should listen better and should not fight the JRC in this dirty way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u222	Apparently, there's going to be some misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u223	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u224	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u225	I didn't understand well, but did my colleague say that Golden Dawn was voting against? Is that what she realized?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u226	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u227	ERT said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u228	But correct it because you're making a mistake here. Golden Dawn is voting in favour of what is useful to the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u229	ERT said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u230	Please don't misinterpret.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u231	Okay. I think that later at the speech stage this will appear. Apparently, there was a misunderstanding, I don't think there was any feasibility. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, sixteen students and students of Athens Center. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Dannelis has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, sticking to a rhetoric that insists on talking about the alleged protection of the public interest exclusively through the state, in contrast always to bad private management, should be reviewed, for example, in energy and PPC. More specifically, in the trial launched on Monday, 28 November, for the great flea of tens of millions of euros set up in Genocide - PPC by known workers, the administration of PPC, which is obviously appointed, where is it? The case is known. The scandal of the illegal gold grants received by GENOP - PPC in previous years, as well as during the post-breaking of the bubble season. Luxury trips directed 32 million euros, expensive gifts and meals, monkey ceremonies, and even loans that have never been returned. Public administration inspectors and the Athens Court of Appeal are accused. Fifty-nine trade unionists, protagonists known to everyone, timeless chiefist Mr. Nikos Fotopoulou, but also other executives of GENOP. However, PPC is absent and had to come out and point this out to us the other day, that is, that PPC does not declare a political appeal in a case of infidelity in the service by co-automatic and consistent and fraud to the extent of a felony, from which it suffered serious damage, according to the indictment. In other words, it is not there to support the interest of the Greek taxpayer, PPC, which otherwise does not lift a fly on its sword and is also present at the last court of the country, in order to rightly defend its interests. Trade unions to the detriment of the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, bad legacy is a regular tactic. We are tired, and we ourselves, of pointing it out and commenting on it all the time. Noms appear in their final form only after the end of the consultation, which means nothing but the substantial abolition of the consultation process itself. For example, today's bill tripled by consultation until it reaches the relevant committee. It is now common to ignore even the newly adopted laws. The legislation under discussion is characteristic of the case of Articles 7 and 8 relating to transfers or secondments, which will provide for the new address of the Ministry of Labour. The legislator seems to forget what he predicted in the Mobility Act that he received only a week ago. We are discussing the bills by means of summary procedures that do not allow the national delegation to make a substantial contribution and to be useful. At the same time, we are discussing bills accompanied by a number of serious amendments which in many cases could and should even be autonomous bills. Today, among other things, we have an amendment that its special weight almost overshadows the entire bill. Only its cost, 610m euros, is enough. An amendment which, of course, acquires flesh and bones which the Prime Minister promised the day before yesterday in his complaint. It is obvious, and no one can disagree, that for the recipients these small amounts will be extremely welcome, and even symbolic. Is this option, however, a one-off aid at some point small even the rationally effective choice of support, relief of the weak? In a similar decision - action by Mr Samaras just two and a half years ago, you yourself were saying other things, and they had, of course, a logic, as has been proved by the point of fact. And obviously, it wants another kind of debate and other planning to bring about a place for the always small possibilities that we have before the much larger needs, especially in a society that has suffered so much over the years of the crisis after finding out of bankruptcy. On the draft law: we are, of course, legislating once again on the back of the wall, because the establishment of the National Monitoring and Evaluation Mechanism for Social Integration and Cohesion Policies is insignificant, since it is a national obligation for payments from the European Social Fund and must be completed by the end of this year. However, the complexity of the architecture of the mechanism under way, divided into three levels, national, regional, local, I fear it will not be effective, efficient, but will reproduce bureaucracy without solving problems of co-responsibility and malfunctions that are already being observed today with other structures. Is the mechanism trying to collect the existing system? Does it help us overcome the existing perpetual management system? Does it form a basic design of architectural coordination and monitoring? Because, as the mechanism is recommending, we fear that an opportunity is lost to lay the foundations for the full restructuring of a field of central and decentralised state, as well as of self-government, which has the potential to self-determination in order to try and make significant changes possible. It is clear that the mechanism provided for in the draft law does not concern a genuine reorganisation of social policy and welfare services on the basis of an executive state. We are actually creating another structure, which brings new recruitments. Articles 7, 8 and 9 create little or no more than thirty-nine positions of civil servants, administrative and some more potential, with the total cost of the new structures being close to a million euros. Of course, the skills of new employees are not provided. We also think that we should be careful in another area that has recently appeared to gain a considerable scale. The new e-government structures, when they are not well prepared and overlap with other existing electronic structures, do not think they will help overcome the existing problems. On the contrary, we think that we are creating a new originality, electronic bureaucracy. We talked about it a few days ago, when we discussed the bill of the Ministry of Economy and Development "New Institutional Framework for economic activity and other provisions", we said today that a good idea, a new coordinating body, based on digital innovative technologies, can be buried in a service tuition, under disguised portals that lose in different levels, either central government or local government, how much more, when we notice that digitisation rather than increasing jobs. Thus, effective e-government is once again referred to as the bells or as in the case of the Single Geographical Information System, there is an excuse for smuggling additional funds when the same needs could be met by e-pronoia.gr. In relation to the second chapter, which extends the Social Solidarity Benefit, the former minimum guaranteed income, of course, we should note the wishful habit of rename, perhaps to excruciate everything that you have been demonizing in the past. We have talked about the need for minimum guaranteed income and its extension from the outset, without any footnotes and asterisks. Because it is not possible in a country such as Greece to receive three times more social benefits than poorer citizens, while families with long-term unemployed are not entitled to anything at all. These distortions, with the minimum guaranteed income, are avoided. So social solidarity is also guaranteed, but it is imposed or can be said that social cohesion is based. However, it remains the question of whether you are convinced of the necessity of this tool, how much it can be applied throughout the territory, perhaps it should be implemented and, of course, whether the resources required for its full implementation have been secured. In relation to the third chapter and the corrections to the operation of the Single Social Security Agency, the provisions are completely interlinked with the incomplete Kakrugalos reform, for which, of course, we have said a lot since last May, when we discussed the relevant draft law. In fact, we, the only opposition party, have tabled an integrated proposal, with an integrated view, without of course seeking to plunder the ears of all citizens in relation to an extremely difficult one to deal with, especially as has been done today, a problem such as insurance. The creation of EKA is an ambitious and difficult task, which is not completed in the traditional way of rename services. To put it another way, Articles 40 to 51 reveal the lack of a substantial integrated planning. We also see that there is a obsession with complex structures, which certainly do not guarantee the functional integration of the insurance funds and the more efficient organisation of the system. A single structure requires overall planning in order to organise all available resources in the most effective way. The rename of existing structures in the sense of not being upset, not being undone is canceling the very idea of the creation of the ECA. In the years of the crisis, ladies and gentlemen, the word reform has been demonised and linked to collective unconsciousness with the unfair and ineffective, of course, horizontal cuts in wages and pensions. For this misunderstanding the whole political system has responsibility, of course. But many Memorandum Responsibilities are real reforms which, of course, we should have adopted and implemented on our own without suggesting or imposing them on us. The Instrument for Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of Political Integration and Social Support, as well as the minimum guaranteed income, are genuine reforms that will relieve a large part of the society that has suffered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Mr. Dritsas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law entitled "National Mechanism for Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Integration and Social Cohesion Policies, Arrangements on Social Solidarity and Applicable Provisions of Law No.4387/2016 (A 85)", which aspires and I am sure it will become a law, I am also sure that it will be a law, a tool to upgrade a fragmented welfare practice, upgraded to a single public system of pro-active benefits and aid to citizens who need it. The rightful citizens, which we all know are the vulnerable social groups - I will say below how these are produced and in what context such initiatives must be integrated, because it is not just regulation, it has to do with overall policy. These vulnerable social groups, obviously need support, aid for promotional benefits, which should as far as possible be upgraded, larger, more comprehensive and cover a wide range of needs. Obviously, and this is an open issue, the mechanism does not close it. He's obviously not closing it. On the contrary, it makes it easier. The citizens themselves, the vulnerable social groups, in particular, who do not have a voice in general, which do not have a representation, which is not socially effective, are the ones that, apart from the aid itself, also have a huge need for legal certainty, legal certainty, that is to say, and not be prone to circumstantial interventions by those who provide voice and, above all, political representation. They need transparency and the objective documentation of the right, they need the complementarity of benefits in a single direction, constantly evolving and constantly intrinsically seeking the most complete complementarity of benefits. Because it's not enough for a cash allowance. Children's facilities are also needed, and hospital and medical care are needed. There is also a need for many others, which are beneficiaries of all the policies we are trying to implement, but at the same time, information and knowledge of these rights are needed at the same time. So when one focuses on and guides it, then I can understand the criticisms that have been made. Already Mr Danellis, who came down from the Step, said there and pointed out that this proposal from the government does not guarantee this. We'll see. I am convinced by Mrs Fotrou and Mr Petropoulos yesterday that they have put me in the law and in the explanatory statement, but also in the presentation of very important points - forecasts, in order to achieve this overall objective. Of course, the act will show it and perhaps it will also require further improvements. I respect, however, and I can understand a criticism, which says that this does not guarantee these things. It's a point of view. It will be judged, as will the law in its practice. But what we really want - and that is where we must all agree - is, in particular, the dignity of the beneficiaries. That is where all these mechanisms are judged, not to depend on the citizen from other centres that will provide him with a service. This is the quintuosity of this choice and of the effort made by the Ministry alone, the agencies made it on their own, the ministerial staff made it on their own. This is also important to stress. The National Mechanism for Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Integration Policies is an important step. No, I do not give up and I leave, but there is a social integration effort and at the same time social cohesion. This whole grid is trying to serve in the best possible way under these conditions. That is why I say that the relevant Minister and the Government are perhaps organising for the first time or at any rate so systematically for the first time a single public system of supply and aid next to the insurance system, next to all the other systems that the Greek state has, which have too many imperfections and many injustices, which we need to be vigilant in order to deal with. But there has also been a criticism from the left. Right-wing criticism I think it's left in a miserable situation, that we would do better or you know, have this or that. I think there is no depth of criticism on the right. On the left, criticism raises a question. It does not put it fully because it could upgrade it. I will try to do so because I think it is a very serious matter and so I think the Minister and the Ministry and the Government are dealing with it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some time, Madam President. Indeed, this is not a Memorandum of Understanding. But it is a commitment in the context of European decisions - the Minister and Mr Petropoulos and Mr Javarra have said so - to social exclusion and poverty. This, however, is a threat that does not fall out of the sky. In modern society and modern neoliberalism perhaps - and perhaps not possibly, but with certainty - some circles of economic and political politicians assume that we will also have unemployed and poverty and a threat of social exclusion. So we want a pillow, so that we can rationalise this, that modern and powerful capitalist societies do not reach such a great deal of well-being. This is the neoliberal approach and has a lot of feasibility. Give free redundancies to the companies, give them unemployment, to have flexibility and to develop entrepreneurship, but do a pillow. Uh, no, it's not our approach, and here's the question of what exactly the left approach is to these things. The difference is that for neoliberalism represented both in this Chamber and in Greece and internationally, such mechanisms are of a structural nature and perspective. For us it's the opposite. They are transitional mechanisms, they are not structural within a assumption that growth must come. They're emergency mechanisms, because you can't close your eyes to poverty and you shouldn't. Because you must not close your eyes to social cohesion and social exclusion, so that you can create conditions for growth. Because work for us, for our government and for the Left, is a development factor and not just a matter of social justice. It is therefore precisely this different approach which can give a left-wing, progressive, social, mechanism and measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u235	Finish it, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u236	I shall conclude, Madam President. Otherwise, it's like saying we have a capitalist state. It is known for the manhattan approach decades entire. The 20th century was tortured by it. That we have a capitalist state, as a package, we drive it away and we put a socialist state in. Well, it's not like that. The struggle of classes is a lasting reality both at the level of the economy and at the level of politics and at the level of philosophy and at all levels. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has much more, but it also has these basic amendments. I shall begin by ending - the conditions for the issue of concessions proposed by the Minister of Labour yesterday by Mrs Ahtsoglou, which is extremely important after decades. I was a young man, and I grew old with these concessionaries of work dwellings and opened a very serious way in this direction. Of course, there is also the big issue of the one-off financial aid. I also said in my speech in the budget that there might be a view that this amount resulting from the overpayment of revenue could be capitalised, stored. It could be invested somewhere else. Hard, because this must be done in 2016, but it is not consistent with our logic of the thirteenth pension, which is necessary to keep the objective constantly open. The programme of Thessaloniki was not able to implement it, but we did not forget it and we will not forget it. We must not forget the need to constantly look at ways, even small, medium-sized or larger, and to stimulate active internal demand, to overcome the crisis throughout the world and in all the countries that have experienced an economic crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u237	You're done, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u238	So it is a consistent choice and it is not an election, because elections are not in our plan, but it is not an opportunityal provision, so to appease someone. It is an act of justice, an act consistent with a logic that we can and we are constantly trying to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u239	Finish, Mr. Dritsa, you've taken twice as much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u240	Mr. Drizza, are you taking advantage of...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u241	Mr Javarra, Madam President, many colleagues who spoke before me were tolerant. Thanks for the tolerance. This isn't about the special relationship, anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u242	Although there was a reason for exception, we didn't show it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u243	No, there's no reason for exception.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u244	We didn't show it because we appreciate you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u245	On the contrary, the President is usually very strict with me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u246	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, nine students and students and an educational meeting from the Xannio Experimental Gymnasium of Piraeus. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Lazaridis, you will speak immediately after another MEP, because another parliamentary representative has preceeded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u247	I have to go, Madam President. I was hoping I could talk, because when I was upstairs, I was told it was my turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Comrade, open your microphone if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u249	When I was on the voting procedure for the Bureau of the Committee on Production and Trade, I was told that my turn was here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u250	I called you but you weren't here. So Mr. Dannelis spoke in your place. So now, because two Members must always be present between Parliamentary representatives, Mr Dritsa spoke, Mr Simorellis will speak and you will speak immediately afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u251	Madam President, I have to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u252	Hey, it's not a matter. It's seven minutes. Mr. Simorelli, do you want to give the floor to Mr. Lazaridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u253	Alas, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u254	Mr. Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I hoped that today, in any case, this bill, which concerns the relief, assistance of our suffering fellow citizens, our suffering fellow citizens, somewhere would raise awareness of Anti-Population and we could look for some common points, in any case, or see some fertile opposition on the part of the Anti-Population Officer or the rest of the anti-Population. Instead, I can see that the tons went up too much. We have heard here about poverty. We heard a colleague here asking the Minister to remind her of what she said before etc. I'm not going to make Mrs. Minister's attorney. We don't need the Secretary-General either. I would like to remind these colleagues what they have done. Since we are going to start remembering, to remember what they did, because poverty and what we are now trying to correct is the result of their own policies. It's not the result of this government, it's to remember what they did. When they handed over the government in December 2014, one third of the Greeks were poor. Of the 7%, who received the unemployment rate, they took it to 27%. That government didn't do it. On the contrary, this government within this short time has succeeded and improved the rates of unemployment, etc., not at such rates, which will make us celebrate, but in any case, it goes back to the indicators, something is going to change. You've booked two hundred and fifty-two thousand businesses, and in the middle class you've been busting her, which you've often been out here or the channels, etc. And you're talking about middle class. But in the middle class, you're the ones who kicked her out. The middle class is those closed stores we see outside. What are those closed stores? You know, this middle class is the one that traditionally gave the world a job either by investing itself or by recruiting staff, turning the gears of the machine. They are the ones that have been smuggled out and you have been telling them and counterproductive, 'no, they are traders', 'no, they are, they are counterproductive', to justify your criminal policy. I also wanted to remind you that you had not taken any social measures. On the contrary, the state’s social policy had been undertaken by the Church and was feeding people. In fact, I remember that the previous governments had not shown any sensitivity, and not only did they show sensitivity, but at first when it started talking about child malnutrition or about people who are looking in the cans, etc., they were getting out and blaming the people who mentioned these for demagogues. It says 'democratize'. Only one metropolis in our homeland in Thessaloniki came to feed around eight to eight thousand people. He also mentioned a colleague from Anti-Policy and mentioned EEAY, etc. The problems of the EEA, as with all the insurance funds, are the result of their policies. All the insurance funds were subjected to full precipitation, full destruction with the PSI. Some other things had been ahead of us, but with the PSI it was their total destruction. Only in a hospital in my homeland, on Thessaloniki, the debts from 2012 - in 2012 were not ruling - they had reached 240 million and were in danger of closing. We are talking about a large hospital, which has had positive effects. It wasn't one of the hospitals that needed resolution. I am talking about Papageorgiou. The debts of Papageorgiou were 70 million. So, if we do the account, it has 170 million positive results. So you can't blame it for mismanagement. That was the sensitivity and the good manipulations you had done. Now, the present government comes and tries to relieve some of our fellow citizens and says that in the form of 13th wages it will give them a sum now. And people came out and said, "But you didn't ask the partners. You didn't get permission from the partners. How do you give it?’ I mean, even in that, there was a reaction. Instead of that, our partners out there see that we can agree to support vulnerable groups, even in that they see there are some willing ones going to support and some others go to pull the carpet. For Christ's sakes! We see, of course, in this regard, when we talk about sensitivity, that sensitivity is relevant. Because, for example, we see the Vice President of Officerial Representation giving Symble right and saying that Symble is not absurd and, in fact, it would normally have to be more than it would have been necessary to do. In other words, the Greek people now understand what they would have suffered if they were not the government. Of course, he comes out and says something else, that the 200 million loan will also be given. In other words, that would be the way of politics, which they would do. But the Greek people now know what they are doing. And in any case, here I would like to say: what film of scientific imagination has anyone seen the victim be convinced of being able to save it? Is it possible that the one who shot, went and asked after his victim to trust his life, why would he save him? It's not possible, because society is their victim. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a bill containing three major legislative reforms - interventions: the establishment and operation of the National Monitoring, Evaluation and Coordination Mechanism for Social Inclusion and Cohesion Policy. The national application of the social income of solidarity throughout the country since January 2017. And the third, concerning arrangements for insured persons and pensioners, which are included in the Single Social Security Agency (ESA). The planning, information, monitoring, evaluation and coordination of the State's overall social policy on vulnerable groups in all aspects and levels of administration are a national cheque. Strengthening social protection is essential in order to coordinate effectively and co-ordinate all co-operating bodies at government and self-government level, to strengthen social dialogue through the consultation bodies, and to eliminate duplication and mismanagement of limited social resources in an extremely critical policy area. These objectives are pursued by the National Coordination and Evaluation Mechanism for Social Integration and Social Cohesion Policies, the establishment and operation of which are laid down in this draft law. The protection of the poor is a social debt. And the government's priority is to strengthen and shield social protection. We are going on, that is, as demonstrated by our legislative initiative so far, strengthening the social part of the state budget, supporting the most sensitive groups and those who have been most affected by the long-term crisis. With the establishment and functioning of the National Mechanism, the State will have a strong tool to ensure information, transparency, directness, objectivity of planning and good management and distribution of resources in the area of social protection. Citizens will be able to put their demands in dignity and have an immediate response, without being forced to seek out non-State intermediaries, in order to provide them with the services and benefits they are entitled to. Over the past six years, the proportion of the country's population, which has been at risk of poverty or extreme poverty, or of social exclusion, has increased considerably. The proposed provisions of Chapter II seek to set out a general but certain framework on issues of e-government of innovative services and the extension of social solidarity income from pilot implementation, which has so far been in all the municipalities of the country, in order to stop as far as possible the socio-economic exclusions of our fellow citizens. We have secured EUR 760 million from the surplus budget to finance the social income of solidarity. And it's not only for allowances but also for services, such as free medicine, medical care, etc. The CRL is not only taken as financial aid for combating extreme poverty. It forms part of a more general social policy against social exclusion because it is accompanied by benefits in kind and social care services, as well as by measures to promote employment. It recommends an integrated social assistance programme which ensures a decent standard of living and at the same time promotes the social and economic integration of the beneficiaries. Among other things, the CRL provides that it will cover over two hundred and fifty thousand households living in poverty, while redefining the benefits and providing that the multi-faceted household is to be integrated into and adult children as twenty-five years old who are students, while limiting the categories of beneficiaries who are not able to work, with the abolition of the case for those who serve their service in the Armed Forces. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I speed up my placement because my time is up. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill creates an integrated system for dealing with poverty and social exclusion, but also a grid of interventions, which help to reintegrating socially and to ensure easy and decent access to the prostitutional system. It follows from our legislative initiative, which aims to promote and support initiatives based on the development of a modern and socially fair model of development. As the rapporteur of the Independent Greeks, Mr Papachristopoulos, said in committee, the whole structure of the bill is a tangible proof that this government cares about the people who were really on the sidelines for several years. We support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, too. Mr. Simorellis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Madam President. I always like when we talk about the bill to deal with just the bill. But this time I will break the rule, and I will make a comment, because in the last few days - and even today - we have been bombing here and talking about high surpluses. I would also like to say the words 'Look who is speaking'. I'll only remind them of a number. For 2016, the previous government had agreed on 4.5 billion more. We are talking today about the monitoring mechanism in general of social events taking place in our country. I wish there was no need, Minister, for this mechanism. I wish there was no poverty. But poverty has existed and there will be as long as these austerity policies currently being implemented in Europe and, in particular, neoliberal policies are implemented. There's a need for this mechanism and another thing. Let me give you an example and an experience from the province, from the town of Trikala, where so far what has happened? In addition to the fact that many did not have any information about which allowance they had to receive, there were enough of those who ran to the political offices to receive them an allowance. And this mechanism is coming today to solve these issues and specific issues of dignity. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill on today's plenary is an extremely important piece of legislation. Finally, our country will have a national mechanism for monitoring and evaluating the social policy of the state. Our aim is to protect vulnerable social groups from prioritising and to provide social protection more properly and more quickly, by exploiting modern technology. The National Coordination and Evaluation Mechanism for Social Integration and Cohesion Policies, which employs the first articles of the bill, is an obligation undertaken by our country in accordance with the revised European Social Charter and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union provided for by the study "National Strategy for Social Integration", which has been approved by the Commission and summarises the priorities of the Greek Government for combating poverty and social exclusion, phenomena which unfortunately have increased in the years of the memorandums. We do not go into this law because it is a contractual obligation. SYRIZA and the Left have always prioritised the importance of eliminating social discrimination and poverty. The moment that law comes is the most appropriate. The Greek system of social care is incomplete, fragmented and inefficient to cope with the humanitarian crisis we are experiencing. It is characterised by overlaps of competence with hundreds of actors and a lack of centralised coordination. In the past, this situation has enabled to a certain extent the phenomena of customer relations and corruption which have made the social welfare system an unreliable and political tool of the respective rulers. The National Mechanism, structured in three levels, the government, regional and municipality, will have as the core the Directorate-General for Social Welfare, which assumes responsibility for managing the social income of solidarity. In fact, municipal social services managed by seven hundred and fifty new recruitments under IASC procedures will be the most immediate sensors of the National Mechanism. That is where people will be addressed with their problems and their demands and they will ask their questions. The institutions of the National Mechanism will be informed and communicate through an information system with three registries: the register of debtors, the register of institutions and the programme register. Everything will be open and transparent, without room for exclusion for those who meet the criteria and for those who do not meet them. Ladies and gentlemen, with the establishment and functioning of the National Mechanism, the Greek state will have a powerful tool for social protection and it is our duty to support it. The organisational upgrading of social welfare provided for in this bill in conjunction with the social solidarity income, which last week in the budget we adopted 720 million euros for over two hundred thousand households who live in poverty, are important steps to curb the humanitarian crisis. Furthermore, to note that social income of solidarity is not just financial aid to combat extreme poverty, but is accompanied by benefits in kind and in social care services and by measures to promote employment. In fact, 10% of the CRL benefits will find work with the OAS programme and the employment portfolio in an attempt to hit the unemployment scourge. Finally, I would like to say to my fellow Members, who often go through our efforts and degrade them in the public debate, that we are trying to unite a state that, with your inexcusable and scandalous policies, brought it to the lips of destruction. We are trying to alleviate the humanitarian crisis which is the product of the neoliberal austerity that your fellow believers impose on Europe. In this effort, do not put obstacles, because the Greek people see and judge. Social income is the least we can do and help our fellow citizens who have suffered and suffered in the years of the memoranda. The same applies to the thirteenth pension, which will be shared this year by the surplus. The maximum would be to achieve the removal from the comitology and the memoranda and a Greece with growth, democracy and social justice. This is where our policy is going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, too, for the accuracy of time. Mr. Sevastakis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u259	Unlike Mr. Dritsa, I'll be sooner, I'll be accurate again. My small parliamentary experience and involvement with public affairs has led me to understand that the prosperous part was scattered into small benefits, mainly favorable or benefits under the pressure of various scattered, unconscious, irrational groups. The second element was the inability of a reliable file that creates and records the profiles of the beneficiaries. In this sense a large part of it as long as the years passed and more necessary welfare material was scattered. There was no organised dispersion, that is, but a scatter. A second element I had identified is that the various mechanisms, which managed the prosperous part of the economy, were mechanisms that created little power towards the subsidized. They had a power relationship and set up for many years long careers and a political profile was made on the notion of charity or its distorting version of charity. I think that the bill is attempting to organise more rationally and, above all, to exalt the very concept of provision. It's a defensive choice to provide. Normally you have to win your bread, but under the terms of an economic crisis of a structural nature such as today's prosperous action is very important. Why not just win economic development, but you must do so in terms of social stabilisation and social unity. One aspect of the government's policy is that: The pro-active part is to be an organic part of the economy, not an interpolation and a slap in economic normality, but as much as it can integrate it as an organic part of the economy. In this sense, unification is a very important experiment, a very important attempt. The second element is the way in which it is implemented. Many have reserved for how this can be incorporated into administrative reality, self-government reality, the various mechanisms that control and mediate between the central government and, in fact, how it can be reproached in a healthy way. It is a bet, the way in which the pro-innovative policy will become a reality. However, I think that does not reduce the importance of the bill. Another element, which I would like to highlight, is that the crisis is an informal mechanism of profit-making. It's not the accident. The crisis is a structural, systemic profit-making element. In this sense, then, people's discounts, to throw people out of normality, in nowhere, to have an absolute need to support because they cannot make their bread, it is not an incidental element, but an organic, systemic element. Therefore, its coverage is not just an excess of an emotional society, nor just a cultural choice. I think it is a choice for general human-centered rationalisation, that is, for society to rediscover certain measures with which one coexists, it coexists with the other. On this basis, I would place the government's political choice, that is to say, culturally, precisely because we have a structural deficit. With these considerations, I would say that we need to strengthen not the vote or approval - which is fortunately very broad, if I judge from the parties' positions - but, above all, the organisational implementation, the reliability of implementation. Too often we have a contradictory file, that is, people are filed as beneficiaries, while they are not beneficiaries, and there are overlaps and that produces a great waste, not resources, but mainly categorizes and captures people in a sense of poverty or injustice. In the previous parliamentary term, when many people relied on the Minister for the fact that the rental allowance, the strengthening of PPC, that is, the various subsidised policies, did not have unity, in fact concealed the fact that it was the same product as a long-term transaction, or above all a low level of political power management and economic advantage. I therefore believe that this political choice of the government and it will benefit from support and, above all, will benefit from implementation. With these considerations, in support of the vote on the bill, I also find some measures which reconnect us as a political community to the self-evident, that is, humanity and economic logic lost by the policies that have been implemented more widely in Europe over the last few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u260	Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u261	Madam President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Loverdo, would you like to speak now? But after you've spoken, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u263	Madam President, I am not urgent, but I request the floor under Rule 97(4) of the Rules of Procedure for a half-minute placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u264	Okay, okay, I'll give you the floor sometime. I was confused, I thought you hadn't spoken. Here, Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u265	The draft law we are debating is an indication that even in a period of economic surveillance, a committee, even under very difficult conditions for the national economy, a government that intends to prioritise its priorities can do so. Mr. Javarra, this government is not a guest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u266	You're wrong. We didn't say that. We said 'in this Chamber'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u267	Nor, of course, are the political systems that were in power, the NW-PASOK rotation is the hosts for the political forces who want to contribute to the reconstruction of this country. This government has emerged in the most difficult historical period of a highly indebted country, as the people, underneath, could no longer be tolerated to be governed in the same way, with an intertwined neoliberal system of power, which, instead of dealing with the unprecedented deficits, led to a deepening of the debt, internal devaluation, the eruption of unemployment, thousands of human dramas, a humanitarian crisis. I will say, however, that we are sincerely pleased that the basic principles and provisions of the draft law meet wider acceptance, despite objections to the criteria for the yield of the primary surplus of 2016 to their pensioners under 850 euros, as well as to the ECA or to individual provisions. We welcome the broad acceptance of the establishment of the National Coordination, Monitoring, Evaluation of Social Integration Policies, Cohesion, the establishment of thirteen regional observatories and social care services, the establishment of two hundred and fifty-four Community Centres in municipalities with seven hundred new hirings through ASP, which will act as sensors of the mechanism and serve citizens on all their social issues, as they will be informed by the three Geographic Information System electronic registers and will inform of all the programmes as a service of a stop, requested by Mr Salmas. We are pleased about the agreement to extend the social income of solidarity across the country and the opportunities, which gives the beneficiaries a participation in their free medication, but also in other programmes - school meals, the exploitation of TEVA, roofs of supported living, policies for the child - with an electronic platform for all benefits and with a view to creating a single National Welfare and Solidarity System. This wider acceptance allows us to hope for agreement on other issues too seriously, on the Cyprus issue, on the tension in Greek-Turkish relations, on the issues relating to refugee, on the issues that cause our conflict with irrational demands either from the lenders or from others, who think they can handle the European family in the big issues ahead of its own future and in the future of the peoples it serves. This broader acceptance allows us to hope in agreement on what constitutes the European Social Charter, fundamental human rights, which, of course, speaks to us here in Athens when European employment and social policies such as Thomas Handel, chairman of the committee of the European Parliament, and similar Commissioners - Serbs, Svarts - of the Commission and of the European Social Fund - come to Athens. It goes without saying, however, that in order for there to be a social cohesion policy, a high quality of health services, a substantial reduction in poverty, as requested by Mr Salmas, there must be a number of conditions: Firstly, the national economy must recover, that the second positive assessment of the third convention proceeds, that we enter into the quantitative relaxation of the European Central Bank, that the promotional reforms, which we are doing in public administration and in the state, that of collecting money from plastics, electronic transactions, and smuggling - we are now legislating, that of revealing undeclared assets, that of extending the tax base. Secondly, all development interventions, which will allow 2.7% growth in 2017, newly-healthy entrepreneurship policies, competitiveness, extroversion, innovation, new projects of the new NSRF, the new development law, the European Investment Fund, entrepreneurship funds, the new "EXECOMM" programme and much more. Thirdly, we must not accept the reduction of tax-free allowances and the abolition of personal differences in pensions, the doubling of collective redundancies, the need to promote the need to establish the freedom of collective bargaining and, at the top of the question, the lack of irrational requirements for decades of primary surpluses of 3.5%, as everyone points out that they do not come out. The references to customer amendments, which have not yet come, do not go hand in hand with the sensitivities of our group. We have shown examples of writing and I think that when you tell us what constitutes client interventions, you should do so and we should discuss it here in the House. In closing, because, Mr. Javarra, you have wondered if the world is changing, I tell you that the world is changing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u268	I wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u269	People change if...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u270	You have to change with him, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u271	People change, if we change the links between those who support the capitalist right to enrichment and those who want a human emancipation society, without exploitation and alienation, a society of free and equal producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, fifty students and students and three educational attendances from the 2nd High School Argos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Theonas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Your Honor. I will try to be very brief. The National Mechanism for Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Integration Policies and Social Cohesion - we need to highlight these elements, because they are features - it is based almost exclusively on the development and implementation of digital technology and promotes the strengthening of e-government. I feel - at least - that Minister Theano Fotio has given us so many elements and descriptions, which I think he has persuaded us almost everyone where this National Mechanism is aimed, what it uses with regard to the technology and the tools it uses. And I think that if we want to convince ourselves, the arguments used by the Prime Minister give us the opportunity to be convinced, as long as we have good faith. I will not make any more comments on the content of the law, which gives many opportunities to develop policies that will serve the interests of the wide folk and those who know the most problems, but I would like to make a few remarks relating to issues raised in today's debate. I would like to say that a key issue that I raised in the debate in committee is not included in the legislative improvements submitted by both my colleague Mr Fotou and Mr Tasos Petropoulos, and I think it is a pity that it is not included. Withdrawal of Article 23 of the draft law we are debating will be a sensible act, but also an expression of respect for people, who are working in conditions of occupational risk, occupational disease and a low life expectancy. In particular, I mean that the provision of Article 23...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u274	Mr. Theonas, we did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u275	Did you do it? Did you remove it? I didn't see it removed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u276	We've given it to a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u277	I read the legislative improvements. I wish! Thank you very much, if you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u278	Since yesterday, I've said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u279	It's very important. It is mainly about heavy and unhealthy professions. I think we'll all agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u280	We agree, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u281	And I want to applaud your immediate response, because it is correct and important.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u282	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u283	Secondly, I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, this is the following.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u284	The game knows well!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u285	If it's a game, Christo, all right. I think we're going further.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u286	You know that well. Since yesterday the Minister said so, and today you mention it...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u287	Uh, he didn't hear it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u288	Let's go down. I would like to note the following that entered the debate here. It was denounced that IKA owes and does not pay its obligations to the EEAS. I want to tell you that this is not accurate. As far as I know, since February 2015 when I was in the administration of IKA, there have always been meetings in the Ministry of Labour and Social Security and the question of how the funds responded to the performance of the contributions they had received for the health industries. And you will allow me to say a little bit about that. In any case, IKA has always been the first organisation to fulfil its obligations. I don't know if there's anything else against the IKA, but I want to tell you this. IKA will be the cornerstone of the Single Social Security Agency, and I think we should all be against IKA carefully and wisely in our comments, to help improve, as best as possible, the activity that the single institution must have, which will be called upon to serve and solve major problems for pensioners and will make a decisive contribution to the fight against poverty. On this occasion, I would like to express an opinion that has been tormenting me for years. The abolition of the health branches of the funds was a very big mistake when it happened. I am not going to go to history now and I am not going to mention names. However, the abolition of health branches was wrong when IKA had an integrated primary health care body throughout Greece. For in one hundred and fifty cities where IKA branches were housed, there was a piece of administrative services of the branch that concerned insured, registries, etc. And the second half was medical, with IKA's doctors. Now, of course, IKA doesn't have doctors, because since the health branches have been abolished there are no doctors in insurance funds. At that time, IKA doctors served not only the insured IKA, but all the citizens in the particular area that was the branch, whether they wanted to write them a prescription, or they wanted a doctor to see if they had a fever or have them transferred to a hospital if they needed wider care. All these medicine was the primary health care body in operation. We've done away with it, and now we're looking to rebuild a primary health care body. I think that we should draw this as a conclusion and see how we will continue along the way. I believe, however, that IKA is the country's largest insurance company and must be sympathetic, because it operates and offers services to all workers, but also to all the insured and uninsured workers in our country. That is what I would like to take into account. There are several issues on which we can reach agreement. With all due respect to Mr Javarra, I would like to say to him that he has been a little wrong as a body. You have spoken about poverty, Mr Javarra, and you have done very well, because we must all be concerned about poverty and we must fight for its transcendence. But you told us about making a tip now with the Prime Minister's announcements. But that's not the way it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u289	I said that poverty must be fought. These are opinions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u290	I don't charge you, but I charge the New Democracy that with Act 6, the cabinet has turned Christmas gifts into tips, Easter gifts, the regular leave allowance, the lower wage and the lower pension. That's what we need to rehabilitate. I think we too have a responsibility, because so far they have not been restored. They should have been restored and I think that will be done in a short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u291	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u292	Madam President, I would like the floor, please, on the basis of Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, which organises the first debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u293	This article 97 doesn't say. Now speak for three minutes, so we can get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u294	You're taking me to Article 97(5). I wanted to speak with Article 97(4), but it does not matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u295	Neither Article 4 nor Article 5. Nothing's wrong. You constantly want to intervene. We'll find a way to show a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u296	You're very good, Madam President. Thank you. For a long time now it has been submitted to the National Representation by Mr. Brutsi, as well as Mr. Theocharis, a village from the European Commission's 'Compliance Report' on 9 June 2016, Mrs. and Mr. Minister, according to which the government has agreed on 10 years of primary surpluses of 3.5%. A statement by Mr Regling was posted on the Internet a moment ago that ESS is "fresh" what has been decided on the public debt until it is cleared, judged, assessed whether what we are for today - because there is an amendment to the draft law regulating the issues of the Prime Minister's announcement of the one-off allowance - is or is not compatible with the programme. Otherwise, what was agreed in the Eurogroup does not apply. You're not here, of course, as Finance Ministers, but from your Ministry. But you are members of the government. You may not be, Mr. Petersburg, a member of the cabinet, but you're a member of the government. Mrs. Fotio is part of the cabinet. You are obliged to take the floor and tell us both, because for us and for what is being discussed outside Halloween there is a feeling that you are mocking the world. You may be mocking your own world - Mrs Christophilopoulou, Madam President, has said that we will vote on this amendment on the one-off allowance - but you are making fun of us too! You have the House to vote and you'll invite her to vote tomorrow? Are you humiliating yourself? Are you gonna humiliate us, too? I hear the other opposition parties are on the same line.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u297	Are you a representative of the lenders?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u298	To finish, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u299	Calm down! Your request will be answered. Wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u300	The government must clarify before the votes and at the outset - and not here the ministers are sitting and not speaking - what are these two issues: and the issue, which concerns your amendment on the one-off allowance, but whether you have or have not agreed on ten years of primary surpluses, after 2018, 3.5% of GDP.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u301	Mr. Brutsi said it. Repeat!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u302	You want to say something, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u303	No, I'll talk when the time comes. We'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u304	We're on. Now Mr. Cessa has the floor for seven minutes. Then there's Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Madam President. I'll talk less, because most of them have been said about the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill which has been late to come. She's been late for over 40 years. I think this delay is not accidental: it was not because the previous governments could not do this at national level, it is not because they did not have the knowledge. The delay was what enabled the political system to exploit both poverty and unemployment and impoverishment and all the people who were in a difficult position. It has arrived in 2012 to proceed with this obligation and on 31-12-2016 to be the last date to become law, to become that mechanism. And now we hear voices asking us why we're bringing it in with the urgency procedure, what we've been doing all this time. A little self-criticism I think it doesn't hurt. In 2012, in 2013, some preparations were made in 2014, but no bill came to Parliament, the law was not done. We have 14 December. Why do we vote for it in the urgency procedure? December 31st is the last date. But what is the situation today in this area? According to the report, and according to the data, seventeen institutions give allowances. Some of the institutions are not well known. How many allowances? A hundred and twenty-five are mentioned and I don't know if there's anyone who can report them one, or have them registered. In other words, no one knows who gets an allowance, how much he gets, if he gets an allowance, if he gets two allowances, if he is entitled, if he is not entitled to it, etc. It's not a random situation. It wasn't created because there were earthquakes, famines and oppressions. She's intentional. Why? Because this is how customer relations were created, these client relationships that devastated the dignity of our fellow people, these client relationships that are even perpetuating now and reaching our own parliamentary offices and today still tell us: 'But, a help can't you get? Previously, they took it off. Why can't you? If I go to someone else, I know I'll take it off. But I voted for you." That's the situation. At least I've met her. This is the first time that I have been elected a Member - that is in 2015 - but they come to my parliamentary office. And what I'm saying to you is not my words, but people who are, of course, in a terrible economic situation and arrive at this point. I think that with this situation it is obvious that the devastatement of the dignity of every human being is evident. The bill makes a central mechanism which goes to thirteen regions. Each region shall take care of the municipalities for which it is responsible and in two hundred and fifty-four municipalities the Community centres are established. We all know the needs of the municipalities in personnel. However, we have heard voices about why they are appointed and why there are seven hundred fifty workers for these Community centres, despite the fact that it has been said from all sides that the procedure will be through APA and that these people will also help the other social services of the municipality. If there were no staffing, I believe that this mechanism would be incomplete, because the Community centres are the sensors of the whole system. I think that's where all the information will be taken. There will be the disguise of the people I described earlier, of the people who will know that they will go to the Community centre, say their name and their VDU, and there will be all the information, that is, their register, according to which the official responsible will inform them of what they can and what they are entitled to do and what they are entitled to. There is a link between all the mechanisms involved, such as HICP, TAXIS, Welfare, etc., and I think this is how the data are easily found. Is this mechanism just going to grant an allowance? Oh, no! It will also provide other benefits, in accordance with the register of the beneficiaries themselves. It has been said that there will be free medical treatment for them and access to nurseries will be provided. Forty-five thousand children are entitled this year to go to nurseries. In 10% of them, work will be done. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let us now see what perspective this law opens. It opens up a right path and, as almost everyone said, it is in the right direction, because it lays down objective criteria for the beneficiaries and enables further study and scientific processing of the data and the possibility of further improvement and expansion. That is why I think that this law should be passed by all Members. Thank you very much for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u306	Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u307	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, if things were not so serious, I must admit that your Government would be a nice sightseeing in this gruesome period that we are going through. Yesterday we heard the Prime Minister call neither a little or a little bluff the Minister of National Defence. Excuse me - Mr. Loverdo, do not take such a position! - but I do not agree to say "bulk" to Panos Kammenos! Panos Kammenos is not "bull". He's a very decent gentleman. At the same time as the Prime Minister tells us "bull" the Minister for Defence, and he sits down and applauds as if nothing had happened, he liked the designation - we still hear the Deputy Minister of Education, who said: "It's okay for the Turks to take us a couple of islands. The world isn't broken. We'll get it back.” Do you realize you're a government? Mrs. Fotio, you're grumbling. Mrs. Fotio had come out about a month ago on the SKA and said the second evaluation was closed. You said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u308	In my own words.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u309	In fact, your own words.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u310	I said it about pre-emptive rights. Listen to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u311	It's not just your assessment, Mrs. Fotio. You're Minister of Government, Mrs. Fotou. Today we have learned from a European official, who plays on all the financial sites, that the evaluation, he says, goes rather until March. I'm sorry, they have elections in the Netherlands in March, if you don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u312	And? Are they going with ours?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u313	Madam President, I would like you to protect me from Mrs Fotou. If he wants to, he can take the floor to answer later. We don't do stuff here or share jams. This is Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u314	You're funny.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u315	Come on, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u316	Funny thing than being the Minister of the Hellenic Republic has not been. But let's go a little seriously now. The Prime Minister came in and announced the social dividend the day before yesterday. Yes, sir. The same Prime Minister three days ago told us with non paper by Maximos - and you said it on the channels, Mr Papadopoulos, the next day - that you triumphed the regulation on debt. A moment ago, Mr. Regling of the ESM announced that he was "false" the debt arrangement until it was clarified what exactly the so-called social dividend is. Excuse me, did you risk the triumph you achieved on Monday or wasn't it a triumph? Or you don't know exactly what you're doing? Mrs Fotou, of course, flew with the usual tale: 'You are the representatives of creditors'. That is what Mr Tsipras said today in Thessaloniki. You know, this story now about who the lenders' representatives are, we've lived it. We lived through it all the time of the first semester of 2015. Do you know where that story led us? It has led us to the third, harder, worse than all the Memorandums, and it has led us to a point that no one really knows what will happen in the next few months. Yesterday, the magazine "Economicist" released, ladies and gentlemen, its forecast for the economy in 2017 and for Greece, as a possible scenario, Grexit says "Grexit before Brexit", with a storm. "Economicist" is not any form, it is an economic magazine that everyone reads on the planet earth. So what are the clouds suddenly telling us that gather around us? They tell us that we are starting to live again - and I wish to fall out - the theater of the absurdity that we lived in early 2015. When the Chief of Staff Response said to Mr. Tsipras on Saturday night: "I hope you do not jeopardise the negotiation", Mr. Tsipras rushed to his speech to say what Mr. Mitsotakis is at stake again. It did not pass two days and the ESS and "freeze" the debt arrangement and the German Ministry of Finance asks the troika for a written explanation as to whether the measures are compatible with the programme. We, as a New Democracy, said we would vote for the regulation. We vote in favour of it in the following sense: these people need to take this money, they are weak and we need to help them. One thing, however, is to help weak people, another thing is to do so in such a way that it does not jeopardise the country as a whole. Because if you do...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u317	Don't worry about Shoeble!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u318	Listen, Mr. Colle, in a recent book, Mr. Symble said he was very pleased with the election of Mr. Alexis Tsipras. Yesterday, if you did not know - in fact - the day before yesterday, your Minister of Finance, Mr. Yiannis - with a neo-Varoufakis revealed to us, the one who applauded and admired you of SYRIZA, that Mr.Soible told him that he had decided in June '14 to banish the Government of Samaras - Venizelos, because - as Mr. Varoufakis said - he wants to take Greece to the drachma and with the government that Greece would leave the memorandum and go to the markets. Normally, you should explain to us all SYRIZA Members if Mr Varoufakis is ridiculous about this. If Mr Varoufakis is ridiculous, he goes on to say that during the first and most critical semester of SYRIZA negotiations, Mr. Tsipras had put a ridiculous Minister of Finance. You also understand the level of the crisis that we must have for a Prime Minister, who at the most critical moment puts a ridiculous one. If Mr Varoufakis is not ridiculous and what he says is serious, you must tell us, Mr SYRIZA, Mr ANEL and the Golden Dawn, because you suddenly remembered that we cannot join you on Golden Dawn. In the most critical decision of our political system, Mr Panayotare, in recent years, Golden Dawn has allied with SYRIZA. As Mr Varoufakis said the other day, the Golden Dawn, SYRIZA and ANELs not only allied themselves, but also agreed with Symble, in order to bring the government down and not allow Greece to come out on the markets. So, Mrs Fotou, be very careful when you talk to Parliament again about who the representatives of the lenders are. You're the representatives of the lenders. Now we'd be on the market. We still have Tomsen in our head, Simple and Troika, because the Greek people have been lured from your lies about the thirteenth pension, for the 751 euros, for the abolition of the ENPIA and all the others you were saying. The famous - don't forget - the programme of Thessaloniki, which you would do in the first hundred days and which was independent of the negotiation with the Troika, as Mrs Notopoulou said, is what the lady you appointed in Thessaloniki to the office of Prime Minister called. So, having said a lot of lies, you took authority and what does Mr. Varoufakis reveal? That you were Shoeble's toys. You were playing Shoeble's game and you got the face to tell us if we're the lenders' organs and who we are with? We're with Greece. We want Greece to get out of the memorandum, get out of the market and need no one. But the more you do it, the more you do it, and moves that block the negotiation, the greater need we need from the lenders, and the greater dependence we'll have on Tomsen and Shoeble. That's what Mrs. Fotio doesn't understand and she even smiles when she's screwed up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u319	Take care of yourself. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u320	You, I'm not looking out for you at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u321	Be careful!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u322	I never take care of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u323	It's coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u324	I want you to leave!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u325	You're not gonna kick me out!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u326	Can you leave?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u327	Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u328	That's what I want. Get up and get out of here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u329	Mr. Georgiadis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u330	Get up and get out of here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u331	Mr. Georgiadis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u332	You're not gonna kick me out! I'm here because the Greek people decided.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u333	Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u334	You don't decide! Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u335	If you don't close the evaluation and take Greece to the rocks, ma'am, you'll be accountable in history.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u336	Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u337	Shutting down...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u338	You're incapable, Mr. Georgiades! You're done!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u339	Closed to say, Mr. Stathakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u340	Mr. Georgiadis, you cannot continue in this style.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u341	Mr Stathakis at the General Assembly of the Industrialists of Northern Greece on 15 October, at international level, committed himself as Minister of Development of the Government of Tsipras, then that the assessment would have been closed by 1 November. I said to him then: 'Block by 15 November and I will tell you good.' It closes in December, we go for January, the elections in other countries are starting, the ESM freezes the measures, you don't know what's happening to you and you're smiling already. You're so dangerous.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u342	Okay. Mr Georgiadis' speech has been completed. Mr. Rizzos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u343	Well done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u344	Are we going to give you an account?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u345	Please! Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u346	Mr. Voridis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u347	Do your job. Where are you looking from here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u348	Please. Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u349	Mr. Voridis, I don't understand. What's wrong with us today?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u350	Madam President, your remarks to the Minister, who is irresponsible and provocative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u351	Really, Mr. Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u352	I can't hear what the Minister says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u353	Seriously, Mr. Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u354	Yeah, like I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u355	He's talking to you in the plural, though. You're talking to her in the native. It's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u356	To people, Madam President, who control my behaviour, those who have no right, of course, and I will speak to them on their own.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u357	Oh, no. That's not allowed. Calm down. I think that is not in the climate or the criticality of moments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u358	Tell that to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u359	Mr. Rizzos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss - it is assumed, if some of our colleagues leave us - for a major step since the beginning of the new year on the introduction of the Social Solidarity Income, the universal application of it now in a national context. I think the evidence has already been heard and that's enough. We are talking about the 760 million of the 2017 ordinary budget that will also be allocated to the two hundred and fifty thousand families of beneficiaries, who will receive the financial support provided. Total number? We're talking about over seven hundred thousand of our fellow citizens. This bill doesn't come unravelly on its own. It is a continuation of legislation, actions and initiatives that we have brought from the beginning of our governance, and it is precisely aimed at strengthening the most vulnerable social groups. It was the law to deal with the humanitarian crisis that we voted for in the first period of governance, precisely to support the people who have been wintering, afflicted, who have been hard hit by the recession in recent years. On this was the coverage of the medical care of all our uninsured fellow citizens, those who, with your policies, had flew out of the predictions of the National Health System, as were the five-and-a-half-day rags, as were many things. You are now telling us that what we have given in recent years, in particular the emergency aid to the low-pension workers, and what we have given in the context of the Social Solidarity Fund, are crumbs. I do not know how I can describe that as my fellow Members. Hypocrisy? Illegality? Immediately? I don't want to do it, I'll avoid it, because time will show it. Let us now come to today's bill. There is something new here, which will prove beneficial to all our fellow citizens over time. I won't talk about the rest. All my colleagues have referred to this. I want to focus on one thing, the establishment of the National Monitoring and Evaluation Mechanism. I think that's a little revolution. I'm sorry about the expression, I might be misunderstood by some people that I'm overreacting, but I think that's it. Why? Because, although we are in the second decade of the 20th century, so far no one has known what the benefits are, who and under what conditions they receive them, for how long and with what transparency and proportionality they are given. What do we want, then, ladies and gentlemen? A Greek citizen who is responsible for bureaucracy, for the alalum among the various services, why did we do so, or better you? Are we proud of the seventeen funds that were giving ‘support’ and the citizen was obliged to run between the municipality, the services of the old prefecture, the current district, the OGA or the IKA? Here we must give the Ministry and the Minister credit, but we must also say something about the people of HICP, this service of e-government, a public service that has so far been consciously held to lethargy and inactivity. Why? Because most projects were given for implementation to private contractors and, of course, they were multiplying each time and, respectively, multiplied the cost. These HICP people have managed in a short time to create and upgrade a new information system, which is the most important tool for monitoring and evaluating social policy for vulnerable groups. It will include three registries of beneficiaries, institutions or bodies and programmes through the two hundred and fifty-four community centres. Let us not forget these are the points of interconnection between the state, the region and the municipalities. In other words, it captures all areas and a regime of fragmentary solutions, with annual electronic systems that have not contacted each other or with third parties at all, and so no one knew anything and was lost in the process, we are going to go through a definitive approach for functionality on an open platform that operates and runs the entire public sector. Why do we say that? Each citizen will be able, at any time and at any time, if he fulfils certain criteria, to enter and be recorded at the same time, if he is in the process of demanding, without one's intervention, either political or service. This is the case, in order to ensure both information and transparency, directity, good management and proper allocation of resources. Of course, it has been said recently that today, with this bill, we are also going through a definitive solution to issues relating to the former Labour Housing Organization, the fourteen and a half thousand working dwellings throughout Greece. This case has been coming from far away since 1978. Now, the older obligations are cleared, definitive concessions are given throughout Greece. The basic principle is one: the basic prices per square meter will not be those in the arrogant prices that have been given up until now, but will be the minimum. An example can be obtained from the arrangements for the Olympic Village. Colleagues and colleagues, having regard to all these elements, all the speeches in both the committees and in the House, I call on you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr. Rizzo. Mr. Ilias Panagiotaros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u362	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Georgiadis isn't here. He's gone. Let us answer him that the third memorandum was passed by SYRIZA, the ANELs, along with PASOK and the New Democracy. When you voted for the third memorandum, you knew very well what this memorandum contains. As for the accusations that the Golden Dawn destroyed the economy, against SYRIZA, the Independent Greeks and others for the President of the Republic, Mr Dimas, we have to answer that with what you did against the Golden Dawn, with the trespassing circuits, with the illegality, with the illegal persecution, the imprisonment and all the vigilances against our party, the third political power, which you have done just to squeeze the votes of Golden Dawn - why did you think you will destroy us - ultimately what did you achieve? Strengthen us more, be a stable third political force with growing tendencies, and our persecutors, one after another, decommission, leave, seek them justice and everything else. Accountable in history, Mr Georgiadis, are you for what you have done at the expense of an entire political party, its leader, its MPs and the third political force. In the end, because we are constantly listening to you and your members, to complete the third memorandum, to remind you that you also voted for the second memorandum. The third memorandum was a natural continuity. As for hypothetical speculation that you might go out on the markets, the other thing you know? If my grandmother had earrings, it'd be a railroad. Hypotheses and scripts elsewhere, not now. You and me are responsible as well. For this bill, which is being discussed today, we are reminded of the entire Greek people with their words: "Let me burn you, Giannis, to savour you with oil". Only in this case, "to burn you to Yiannis" has something to do with the memorial and enforcement laws, where you have literally misguided an entire nation, the Greek nation and the various "spirins" that the government is now bringing me, announcements from last week, probably nothing, because in this case the oil will tax it, and most likely, you will seize it before you do, so as to ease the pain of the Greek people. [[At this point, the second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Georgios VARIVEOS, takes over the presidential seat.]] In the first part of this bill, you are talking about something that sounds very nice: the National Instrument for Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Inclusion and Social Cohesion Policies. That sounds good, so that we can help our fellow citizens in various ways, with legislations that have problems. The biggest problem, however, is that you, who, by your laws, are driving more and more Greeks to poverty, migration, suicide and destruction. So these "aspirins" you serve - which are not even aspirins - will never be able to experience them, nor will it have to do with the so-called thirteenth pension that you promised, which is for laughter - and Mr Samaras had done something like that, he had shared 450 million, he had said, since the surplus, of course, no one ever saw them, because with various accounting terminities on the one hand you gave them and on the other you were on the multiple. Your attitude seemed the day before yesterday that Mr. Voutsis, the Honourable President of the Parliament, announced that with good economic administration the House saved around EUR 5 million from the budget. Where's he going to make it available? Illegal immigrants! So in your mind you do not have the Greek citizen, the Greek citizen, because for you - so arbitrarily as you say - a citizen is anyone who is in this country, whether it is illegal, whether he is an illegal, or anything else. Let us not forget the too many laws, which you are bringing or various articles and provisions into bills, which constantly favour illegal immigrants to the detriment of Greek citizens, and which, of course, have been the ones who have been involved in all these benefits for years either have to do with assistance from the OAED, either with the unemployment funds or with whom they will be preferred by those services. In the second part of this bill - and that is the nice one - you say: 'Structurings on social solidarity and implementing provisions of Law 4387/2016'. I mean, the Katrugalu, the law. We are talking here about the tombstone of the insurance funds, the free professionals, the real pillars of a Greek economy. Because by trying to maintain a water-headed public, which at our borders, at the border, where our homeland needs to be stimulus, to be declining, to be no one, to be pamphleted and to be all in the large urban centers, in Athens, Thessaloniki and elsewhere. So, with this bill you serve at the outset what is very eunuchful, sounds beautiful, that it helps the world, but in essence that doesn't interest you at all, and all you care about is passing new Memorandum cheques of the Katrugalo Law. Finally, I would like to make a little mention on the basis of what has been heard by various SYRIZA officials about the Greek flag. We heard from a SYRIZA official, the former Minister of Justice, saying about decriminating the flag burn. So, if I'm here now, within this Ethiopian, I'm taking a Turkish flag and making it a raven, and I'm breaking up, will you like it? Won't there be any problem? Because that's what this is about. But I forgot, if any such action is done, it falls into the anti-racist, while burning the Greek flag is not running chestnut, because everyone is being acquitted, so it's all good! As for you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, do not cry for the Greek flag. After all, do you have a classic executive who said "and what is the Greek flag?" A piece of cloth and if someone burns it, nothing's going on!" That's all to remind you. Mr. Tsironis also came out and said some incredible things to justify the decriminating of the Greek flag, that if a flag from a private person who has it at his house takes it, download it, rip it, throw it or anything else, it's nothing because it's not a national symbol. You have no idea. You don't know anything about national symbols. We also know this: Mr Tsironi, as a member of the Occupied Greens, who are in favour of the so-called Macedonian, namely Skopje being called, calling themselves Macedonia, what else would he say about the Greek flag? He came today and the cherry on the cake the statements of a Member of the patriots Independent Greeks, Mr Zourari, who said that as a scholar he says these things, that, whatever we lose some islands, there is nothing wrong, we will get them back, he says, we have lost them in the past and we have taken them, as long as we do not lose our language. Let me remind all these gentlemen that some people during the Macedonian Struggle for the liberation of Macedonia from the Turks and the Bulgarians did not even speak Greek, spoke of some idioms locally, such as Captain Kotas or others, but had Greece in their hearts and souls. There were others, when it became revolutionary in Crete, in one of the revolutionary efforts of the Cretans to liberate and integrate with the mother Greece, when the enemy's boulders smashed the flag once, they put it back, they put it second, they put it third time, they put it fourth and when there was no longer anything to support the flag a Cretanar was found, who made the body of the web for that flag. So for the Greek flag not to say a word. Normally, anyone who burns or desecrates the Greek flag should be a felony, as is the case in most of the serious states of this world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u363	Mr. Christos Mandas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, Minister, these days in Parliament, an extremely important effort is being made on many levels, and today's bill, which will be completed tomorrow by its vote and by the bill on the issues of plastic money, the bankruptcy code and other very critical issues, which are obviously forwarding and having a positive sign. We think that we are actually giving a signal and a breath to society that lives at difficult times without doubt, especially the poorest strata. I would like to say that the interventions that are being made are crucial. I do not want to degrade under any circumstances and whatever work has been done in the past, and I think that is clear from the position taken by the Minister too. Today, however, the decisive step is taken: the Mechanism is established, which is absolutely necessary by its very nature and by its own mission, so that the Social Solidarity Benefit can be reached in terms of transparency and efficiency to those who need it. No one is fascinating, I imagine, in this Chamber about the difficult situation that many people live in our country for extreme poverty. We need all together to be able to reach the most effective way in which we can help these people. I think that there will be no disagreement on this, it has already appeared from the positions that have been taken. I would say equally that problems and challenges are before us, because something that we legislate, until action takes place, needs a lot of road and a lot of struggle. At the same time as the mechanism, there are critical and important interventions that I would like to remind you of, in other words, the release of the insecure uninsured from the paradox and for the work places that give way to the final concession, so that the beneficiaries receive the final concession, as well as the arrangements made by the respective part of the Ministry of Labour, by Mr Petropoulos, for the EFKA, are very important, because that is where we have very great challenges ahead of us. We have to set up an organisation capable of giving pensions from 1 January 2017. This is a crucial thing. I think that by the legislative arrangements that exist in this second part of the bill, this is guaranteed. At the same time, there are also provisions that are really improveable. I'll just say two so we don't degrade it. The provision, for example, of Article 59 on the partial payment of contributions from freelance professionals and self-employed farmers gives a breath, provides a way out and really helps people who are unable to pay their contributions. Like the resources for the EDPS, which are given through the next provision, Article 60 is also important and they really help in this process. For the long-term unemployed, because there has been a debate today and in relation to your allowance and how it is distributed, and so on, I would like to present here in the Minutes of the House the clarification of Mrs Karamesini today that the unemployed who have a 12-month grant and who fulfil the income criterion with a family income of less than EUR 10,000 are still entitled to the long-term unemployment benefit, namely EUR 200 per month for 12 months. Let's keep this in mind. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Mantas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, because there is a debate to be held and tones have been raised at very critical times that our country is going through. At the moment that we are discussing talks and negotiation with the institutions are going on. The European Parliament is evolving the debate on labour relations and not only is it - I would say - efficient for the interests of the country, but is undermining the efforts made by the country as a whole, channelling things forward first of all - and I will say specifically about it, I do not want to use extreme conditions - and triggering situations within the country that do not ultimately help the country. The government - and I want to say this absolutely - has never accepted any primary surpluses of 3.5% for ten years after the end of the programme. I would again like my colleagues to read out what Mr Brutsis has said, namely the report, the comparison report for the first review in June 2016, which is the Commission report. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Mantas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the Commission's report, therefore, in addition to this first scenario for 3.5% surpluses, there are two others that speak of 2% and 1.7% surpluses. There are three scenarios, therefore, which are set out in this report. As is also the case with the International Monetary Fund scenario with 1.5% surplus. What the government is fighting and has made a very specific proposal from the Minister of Finance, which is on the table, concerns the proposal to commit the country for 2.5% surpluses, while committing 1% from the State budget, separate from that, to small and medium-sized enterprises. In any case, I would like to say this at this stage: the government is giving a fight, a battle on many levels. The opposition must be clearly placed. Does he or does he want the collective negotiations to come back? To speak clearly about the expansion of sectoral contracts and the possibility of re-energy and more favourable regulation for workers. That is a clear question. Does it, or does it not, support the Greek Government's proposal, formulated by the Minister of Finance, in relation to the primary surpluses? Does it want, yes or no, to help the country's effort, or does it want, in the name of its small-party interests, to cause a new cycle of instability in the country? Ultimately, ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing all sides of Parliament - when we have a programme that we are fulfilling and there is over-performance in this programme, is it the Greek Parliament's right or not, through the proposals and the specific proposal of the Government that exists for this allowance and where to make it available, to proceed with this procedure? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u365	Mr. Mada, your time has passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u366	I shall conclude, Mr President. These are crucial questions that define, not only for now, but also for the future, for whatever government, how our country should be placed on them. After all, for all these statements that have ended up on the Internet, the Greek Ministry of Finance has responded, from the first statement of the German Ministry of Finance, that all this is, of course, discussed in the context of the second evaluation with the institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u367	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty students and students and two educational companions from the 5th Grade of Painters. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Aivatidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u368	Thank you, Mr President. The draft law introduced for the National Instrument for Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Integration and Social Cohesion Policies, with co-information arrangements for social solidarity and implementing provisions, but also enriched by some amendments, is interesting to ask what an incentive the Government has to introduce. We have heard from the spokesmen of SYRIZA, in particular, that it is solidarity for the bankrupt Greek people, a form of government altruism, and in the explanatory statement, it is expressly stated that it is being introduced to combat customer relations and corruption in the field of, of course, social solidarity. In 2014, in the list of countries relating to services and corruption, our country was placed in the forty-third place. In 2015, one year that SYRIZA ruled, our country retreated seven positions and now ranks in the fiftyth place worldwide. Therefore, it should not be obvious that the government is taking on corruption. What, though, is the real motive? The real motive is this heresy for launching the 2014-2020 ESDP programme. In other words, it is an explicit cult - a condition for voting in favour of this draft law, in order to launch developments for the NRPs over the next five years, essentially. What makes it seem is that in the draft law, in more than a hundred points, words are mentioned which, as root, have the word nation, such as "national mechanism", "national strategy" etc. It is a special impression because, unfortunately, SYRIZA, with various draft laws that have been voted on, has been followed by a stable ethnic corruption policy, especially on the issue of immigration, so-called euphemism and exaggeration, I would say, refugee. I shall then refer to this. I shall refer here to two of the amendments which are ministerial and the Golden Dawn, a faithful and targeted one for the good of the Greek people, will vote in favour of them even though they are introduced by a distorted left-wing government, a left-wing coalition. The first of these is the amendment by Mrs Ahtsioglou, Mr Tsakalotou and Mr Petropoulos, concerning the one-off financial assistance to low-pension workers. This amendment is precisely the quintuosity of SYRIZA's policy, which, led by Alexis Tsipras, follows literally the Lenin policy. I would remind you that in 1904 there was this important book by Vladimir Ilich Lenin "One step forward, two steps back", which was published as a guiding handbook to address the problems within the party. That's exactly what Alexis Tsipras does. However, the Golden Dawn, because it is a positive financial instrument for supporting low-pension workers, will vote in favour of it. The second amendment, which the Golden Dawn will also be voting for, is that of Mrs Ahtsoglou and Mrs Antonopoulou, of the Ministers. It's number 797 and number 49. He will vote for it for the simple reason that, in a way, problems of the former Labour Housing Organization, which have been pouring for many years, perhaps if there is a political will, will be resolved. One of them is an issue that accentuates Corfu. It is the settlement of Agios Ioannis, the work houses there, where the beneficiaries have not settled despite the fact that the work dwellings have been ready for some years for the reason that they are not connected to a sewer network. We hope, as Golden Dawn, that this issue will be resolved in Corfu, which is a super-party issue and will be for the benefit of the Corfu people. On these days, the German Defence Minister, Mrs Ursula Von Der Laien, visited Saudi Arabia. In the media there was first news that the German Defence Minister did not wear in its public appearances Hijab, which, unfortunately, the Minister of Tourism, Mrs Kefaliannis, in February 2014, but also Mrs Koudoura, in April 2015, had worn in order to impress the world in this Islamic state that reigns and dominates the Saud and the law of Sharia. Here I would like to point out that it is truly sad to see feminists, who have an active role in the political life of the country, defend themselves by political means, of course, in Greece a misogynist Islamicism, while Greece is slowing down because of the birth rate. Finally, I would like to refer to another very serious incident of the current situation that is directly related to immigration. On October 16, in Germany, an Afghan refugee murdered the daughter of a German official of the European Union, Maria Ladenberger. This Afghan was arrested and confessed to being the same person, who in 2013 in Corfu attempted to assassinate a young student - from Souli, in particular, it was this girl - who survived the attack after throwing her into a edge of eight meters. The same man, who had declared a minor and even seventeen years in 2014, entered Germany - from Greece, of course - as a 16 - year - old in 2015. So it is very important, and I must now also refer to the former Minister of Justice, Mr Paradoxopoulos, to say that this law on the decongestion of prisons has led to a revival of criminal acts by people who have a criminal personality and are already doomed. Some time ago, His Majesty Archbishop Jr. had made a public statement and said it was not our duty to expel illegal immigrants. I am referring to what he had said a few years ago: 'It is our duty to give them food and water if needed'. The Golden Dawn today says, strengthening the view of the Archbishop - but not religiously - that it is the first priority for the Golden Dawn to relaunch all these illegal Islamics, because Greece belongs to the Greeks and will belong to the Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u369	Mr. Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, Mr President. We are here today, to discuss in plenary - let me say - the minimum guaranteed income, which started piloting at the PASOK initiative in 2014, has been interrupted by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government for two years and is now returning and we welcome them in our policy. But today, in recent hours, facts have been created, which cannot be pointed out, however much as Mr Tsakalotos calls us to be calm. We're calm and I hope the government is calm too. Firstly, we can no longer know how much lies you have told and to whom. We no longer know what you have agreed to secretly, clearly and what you have signed with the partners. We know for sure that a statement has come out of Mr. Dieselblum's representative saying that we are freezing the positive developments that you celebrated on the debt. The government must inform the House. What have you agreed? What's happened? Because we are here and say - we have said it since the first day - that we Syrians are not going to be. I mean, culture. When we secured the social dividend, we did not have such a problem in Europe. There were no such problems. The social dividend was secured and given, and now there are people who need it. What lies have you lied to, how much lies have you lied to and to whom? What have you agreed, and today we have these developments? Second matter. I had hoped that the Prime Minister would make a decision on Mr Zurari, who made this statement as Minister of Government, that 'it is okay and there is no problem losing two or three islands'. Not a single SYRIZA government has come out - ANEL to make a statement! I ask you, Minister: what is the government's view - are you two ministers here, are you representing the government - for Mr Zouraris? What do you say in this House? Do you agree? Do you disagree? Does it express the Government's positions? He's a government minister. Look, over the past few days, the government has been a ship unregulated at all levels: in national matters, in the political issues of negotiation, in matters relating to the unleashing of neonazis. You're all on a ship undisturbed. Because I want to be very clear, because we too have a responsibility for how we deal with this phenomenon and how to speak clearly yesterday...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u371	Who's this gentleman talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u372	Yesterday we had the Kalavry Holocaust. In the Kalavryan Holocaust, which we had yesterday, the Germans in retaliation killed all men, eight hundred who were not refugees, were not immigrants, they were not Syrians, they were not evildoers, they were nothing. They were Greek. But yesterday in the Holocaust there was no representation of the Golden Dawn. Do you know why to tell Mr. Paradise and the others? Because they killed them neonazis. And there is hypocrisy - and we must say it - that those on the one hand, hypocritically hold the Greek flag as supposedly patriots and on the other, salute Nazis, so they cannot go to honor the eighteen men killed in the Holocaust. That's the reality! I am sorry for you, for the so-called left, which in its way and with many facts is trying to wash away a story. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u373	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u374	It is very clear and the Greek citizens must know, because - I say this again - the eight hundred, murdered by the neonazis, were Greek patriots, children from thirteen years old and upward. Ladies and gentlemen, your time is running out of time. Interestingly, you will choose your patriotic duty or party task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u375	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u376	There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u377	I'm asking for the floor for a second. It was personal, and I want...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u378	There's no personal matter. Only for personal reasons can you take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u379	Mr President, allow me for a minute...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u380	You have the floor, Mr Aivatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u381	The gentleman, who spoke earlier, systematically uses, because he has no other arguments, a false argument against the Golden Dawn. So I call on him, like all my fellow Members, to see today on the first page of the Golden Dawn on our site what exactly we have topics on Calabria, on the heroes who have been slaughtered. So, please, because Mr - I repeat - he has not actually dealt with the draft law at all, but with the imaginary neo-nazi organization, I think he is most of all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u382	You can't make another speech. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Mr President. Golden Dawn, as a fascist criminal organization...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u384	It's all the same again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u385	This must be deleted, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u386	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u387	Delete this!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u388	Not only in the Kalavry, they don't dare if they're going...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u389	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u390	If they take them, if they dare, let them take a walk from Anoya to Crete and they'll take care of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u391	What's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u392	If you call, you go out on the streets. We go everywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u393	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u394	Ladies and gentlemen, the National Mechanism for the Implementation of Social Integration Policies and Social Solidarity Income is not your patent. They are set out in the European Union Strategy - Europe 2020 for the Management of Extreme Poverty and the objectives of the Greek national strategy for social inclusion. In fact, it is stated that the universal coverage of the population is not chosen as a viable scenario for targeting this strategy. So, what's he telling us? That granting of the Social Solidarity Income requires that the total income of the beneficiaries is minimal to zero and that they do not have any assets, but that the beneficiaries are linked to the labour market as a oblivious workforce. In other words, they are directed towards a limited number of people and groups of people living in impoverishment. The European Union of monopolies, which causes poverty, homeless, unemployed and refugees, together with the governments that impoverish peoples, are taking the protection of impoverished peoples. I mean, the wolf keeps the sheep. Absolute hypocrisy and intimidation! But what is the deepest aim of these policies? With reduced costs of meeting certain urgent needs for a greater number of completely poor people to avoid social explosions. What does that mean? First, the lower integration of benefits so that the total individual income from each source together with the CRL does not exceed a threshold, which is very low. Secondly, the exemption of capitalist states from social policy costs to strengthen business groups and their competitiveness with incentives, tax exemptions, warm state money, not only in the context of the capitalist crisis, but also after it. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law photographs the favoured. The establishment of the national mechanism, he says, is a national obligation, an international and Community commitment, in accordance with the hereditary commitment to launch the ESDP programme. That is to say, or you are applying a mechanism for the reproduction and management of extreme poverty, to save funds for the investment uproars of monopolistic groups, or to cut the financing of investments through the NSRF. This mechanism that is being introduced is a mechanism for the reproduction and management of extreme poverty, for the redistribution of poverty between the least poor and those who do not have a fate in the sun. The lever of this redistribution is the Social Income of Solidarity, either in money or in kind. It is a requirement of the third memorandum that you voted together, SYRIZA, ANEL, New Democracy, PASOK and Potami. But let's see the substance behind the curtain of the draft law. Firstly, Mrs Fotou gave her very comfortably last October. Shortly - he said that in order not to make rebesques for those who receive a allowance today, he must be cut off and not to become a custom for the CRL’s crumbs, he intends to replace part of it with benefits in kind. So what did he say at the press conference? When you reach such small levels of benefits as the CRL, 200 euros, benefits in kind can make you survive, money benefits will destroy you. Because, as I said before, it is impossible to survive at EUR 200, while what I just said to you is EUR 150 and you can survive very hard, but you can. No comments! It's completely revealing. Secondly, the income criteria for the CRL are so low that they exclude the vast majority of those receiving the lower pension thresholds. It is equivalent to the allocation of EUR 13 per day to a four-member family. The same - downwards were foreseen by the New Democracy's minimum guaranteed income. Thirdly, you will incorporate 10% of the beneficiary CRLs into work and training programmes. What can anyone say? You are proud of the unemployment recycling programmes condemning workers to poverty such as the socially beneficial work of EUR 490 wages and typified rights. Fourthly, you're telling us you're not cutting any benefits. Not only are you cutting them off, as a Memorandum of Understanding, to 0.5% of GDP per year, but you are maintaining the existing unacceptable provisions on disability rates which constitute a reduction in pre-school allowances. For example, with two legs disabled, diabetes mellitus and coronary disease, it is not entitled to a double-month allowance, because they are cut under the knees. In order to qualify for this, the kinetic disability of lower limbs must be more than 80%. And for it to be over 80%, it must be cut over the knee. So the CEDEFOP health committee responsible gives him 75%. To get the allowance, he has to get back into surgery and cut his legs above his knee, as he cannot wear prosthetic feet due to chilling. That's the lies. This is the misery of your supposedly sensitivity to the disabled. Here's how you cut benefits. I submit to the Minutes the specific findings of the CEDEFOP. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Syntrakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] This is the essence of the intentions of the government - the European Union, ladies and gentlemen, and of the other urban parties: Cutting billions of euros by the poor, plundering pensions, wages, health benefits, welfare, medicine, plundering people's incomes and promises for a few crumbs to the impoverished. You put the dividing line between those who are located or headed to the last step of impoverishment and the rest of the populace and not among those who produce wealth and those who fruit him, i.e. the business groups. That is why you modernise the social policy and welfare system throughout the state structure, ministries, regions and municipalities with more stringent criteria that will cut off or dismantle benefits. This is why institutionalize the Single Geographical System with a full record of social, family, income situation of the poor to automatically cut or cut benefits. The choices and propaganda of the government, ladies and gentlemen, have a great deal of depth. Under the pretext of the inevitable option finds the alibi to blur the real objectives of the CRL and the mechanisms they set up. It develops the illusion that with another government with moral management there may have been a state social policy that meets modern folk needs. Finally, Mr President, the poor and afflicted people have nothing to expect from painkillers and even mittasion. Not to accept the xenophobic, racist and intoleranceous sermons of the Golden Dawn, nor the legitimisation provided to it by SYRIZA officials - SYRIZA himself - by washing away its criminal and nazi character. The people must take action because they do not deserve to live with the crumbs that return to them from the bloody surpluses. He must strive to return everything he has been stolen from in the name of the national effort to tackle the capitalist crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u395	Finish it, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u396	I'm done. That is why the JRC again tabled the amendment to reintroduce the thirteenth and thirteenth pensions. It has tabled proposals for legislation to relieve people's families, to deal with unemployment. It has tabled the proposal for a law of five hundred trade unions and on the reintroduction of EUR 751 of collective agreements. None of them accepted either the government or the other parties. The JRC invites the people to be trained in the popular school of the struggle that will in practice force it to pluck the wealth it produces and which reaches and abundantly...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u397	Put a perfect one, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u398	...to satisfy his modern needs. In view of all this and what our rapporteurs have said, we are voting against the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u399	Mrs Katsavria has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u400	Mr President, please, for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u401	It is not every time that I refer to a party to give the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u402	Yeah, but it was a bad report and you'd allow it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u403	He didn't just make a party, made a reference to another party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u404	On Sfakia 7.21% Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u405	Tell Paul, not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u406	I'm telling you, 7.21% and will be at least 10%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u407	Here, Mrs. Katsavria, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u408	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly not original. It is a well-known phenomenon in Greece that has been emphasizing the public debate for too many years. We must agree, in other words, by disagreeing with high and aggressive tones, such as those used by Mr Brutsi and other colleagues in the New Democracy and some alleged pro-Europeans and other anti-populist ones. I have the feeling, however, that this rhetoric is aimed at disguising their responsibilities and not trying to make good criticism, which would be necessary and welcome. New Democracy and the once socialist PASOK claim that this bill is on the one hand a cheque of lenders from 2012 and, on the other, that they had it already been ready and we delayed it. However, they all know that half the truths are equivalent to huge lies and half the commemorative origin of these regulations is true, because the Charter of Social Rights is being ignored. As is also a half-truth, and the fact that they had it properly ready, as all they had predicted, but not planned, was the use of the HDR database. In order not to blame them, they have also predicted the pilot implementation of the minimum guaranteed income. However, anyway, even if things were exactly as they claim, the conclusion is obvious. They have faithfully implemented all their Memorandum commitments, except those concerning the weakest, vulnerable and vulnerable groups of the population, i.e. the victims of their policies. In any case, however, they are the citizens themselves who know exactly what they did and what they did not do. Ladies and gentlemen, neoliberalism of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, from the time of Simitis until today, needs a gender of figs. Since the mid-90s, their programmes have been prepared to heal the injuries of the weakest sections of society, the victims of their politics. They abandoned all constituted social policy and deleted the need for the welfare state and the rule of law from their vocabulary. They delivered basic social structures either in private interests or in steadfast and dubious quality bodies many times. I am talking about various centres of mental health, protection of the elderly and illiterate young and defenceless children who offer services, and indeed with state or European funding. It is no longer organised society, it is not the state that takes social protection. Our all kinds of undignified fellow citizens are now herds of charity and merciful mood if she manifests itself. Today's neoliberal and social-liberal people are pretending to have built the social state and let it be understood that they have the right to break it down. They are sometimes missed by the line that the post-government social state was built with loans to justify the bankruptcy of the Clergy and the client-political and economic system which they have excavated themselves, but also vice versa. And then they wonder about the heavy political costs they pay and mourn warmly about the loss of power. Mr President, both institutional changes to the effective organisation of social policy provided for in this bill, and the policy on social income of solidarity, are coming to give flesh and bone to the fair requirement of society for real social justice and solidarity. For us, for SYRIZA, the fulfillment of our government is the fulfillment of the debt to the winter-driven society. Transparency in the use of resources and efficiency at their disposal is best ensured at all levels of administration. No one has the right to seize the pain of the other and to make politics, i.e. unwritten voters, whether he is the mayor, a regional mayor or even a MP or a minister. The CRL 760 million will breathe to many of our fellow citizens. I hope now that the revival and development wheel seems to be turning, we need less and less. Get everyone a job, get a fair distribution of income. To have social justice, dignity and democracy. It's the least Greeks and Greeks deserve. With them we seek it, we try it and we do it. Congratulations, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u409	Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u410	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of a very tiresome day, I think that it has now become clear, as has been done in committee, that, as in the case of the majority of the bodies responsible for expressing civil society, most of the parties' rapporteurs have said today, the bill is moving in a positive direction and that it is coming to resolve and support critical aspects of the social state for vulnerable social groups. However, since major opposition cannot deny - mainly this and not only - the positive sign of these changes and rightly votes positively - to confirm the alleged failure and incompetence of the government, or because some choose to throw blood on the arena of their television audience - the savage aggression, insulting characterisations, reversal of the reality of the status quo and chairs or even fireworks of the press that we have discovered that the government has signed ten-year-old surpluses of 3.5%. Mr Mandash answered, I would say the same thing: the government has never accepted a primary surplus of 3.5% for ten years after the end of the programme. The texts presented are simply a conformity report from the Commission. There are many such cases and they are not signed by the Greek Government, which has clearly stated that it does not accept these assumptions about the surpluses, claiming a viable solution to the debt. In this connection, I would remind you that a few days ago in the budget debate here, the Minister of Finance itself had put the effort made by Greece to operate in the 2.5% solution to primary surpluses and the other 1% to be spent on reducing taxes on small and medium-sized enterprises, thus strengthening competitiveness and growth, even calling for a wider consensus that would help with the tough negotiation. So I think it is wrong eventually to move documents with the aim of slandering the Greek Government as a compromise and not helping to finalise this battle for the entire Greek people. And much more they don't help in the other battle given for the work statements unfortunately made by the Vice-Presidents of the major Opposition, such as: "We could sign all reforms and much more", "collective agreements will lead to a closure of businesses" or "the solution is special contracts between the employer and the employee". I say this because this battle is also open at the level of the European Parliament and at the level of the institutions. However, to come to the bill under discussion, this is clearly a continuation of government policy, as I have said introductory terms, in order to support people who have been most affected by the crisis and who have limited or no access to social public goods and find it difficult, or are unable at many levels, roofing, work, satisfactory income, education, medical care and social security. Let me remind you that our government's first bill was on the track of combating the humanitarian crisis, and that was then a number of people who had been designated as unilateral energy by others as crusts or non-enforceable. A year and a half later, we can say that we have succeeded in implementing it, covering instantly - I will agree here - four hundred thousand of our fellow citizens at the level of their basic needs. In addition, despite the suffocating budgetary environment, the government throughout this period is constantly fighting for social equality and solidarity on a daily basis, trying, despite the constraints that we do not question them, to unfold a policy that is trying at its centre to have a large social majority. How does that prove? For example, I mention a number of legislative procedures: first of all, the coverage of uninsured citizens. At a time when the previous governments left without health coverage of two and a half million citizens, seven hundred and seventy thousand people with very low incomes have a zero share of drugs, over ninety thousand for laboratory tests of EUR 21.6 million in public structures and two hundred and seventy-four thousand of our fellow citizens for medicines worth EUR 62.7 million in 2016. We prolong the function of poverty structures until we can lead to what we want and dream. Regarding the OSCE employment programmes, Mr Mandas said that the long-term unemployed, who have exhausted the 12-month grant, are given the opportunity, if their income is below EUR 10 000, not to cut the allowance. We also prolong the provision of school meals, which were recently announced to be extended to more pupils, because unfortunately we still need them, the structures for unaccompanied minor refugees, the funding of welfare centres to help deal with the refugee problem. To facilitate the movement of vulnerable social groups by means of transport, the smooth financing of the programme to assist pensioners and elderly people, with the "Help at Home" programme, to cover 15% of permanent staff in IHSH posts by people with disabilities or family members who have in their care with disabilities, the priority being the appointment of assistants of teachers and other staff, at an increased rate of 25%, to support teaching and training bodies for children who have learning problems. To increase the funding for the integration of children into nurseries with a view to extending the programme by providing a voucher to all households with income below the poverty line and also to all households with disabled persons. I would like to say here to the JRC's colleague that we are working on an attempt to legislate on the Charter of the Rights of Disabled Persons, which we hope will become a state law in March, where there will be a great deal of effort, injustices that really exist and that we can deal more properly and rationally with those people who need it. In this direction, of course, we have also increased the cost of the social budget by EUR 760 million, while the total cost is EUR 1.5 billion, and we have chosen, as has already been said, and it is well known, and you are saying that you are voting for it, the distribution of the social dividend to those who have suffered the greatest wounds, raising the greater burden of the crisis, the usual mortgages, as they are called, of pensioners. In fact, it was said by some to be SYRIZA's privileged team. I would say that this age group is the one that - as long as polls have a value - in which the New Democracy has a greater privileged influence. Although this move has been critical, we consider it to be in the right direction and, of course, this expenditure does not come from the primary surplus, but, as has been said by others, from over-performance of revenues, without jeopardising the achievement of the objective of the primary surplus agreed with the institutions. Here, of course, there are comparisons, which we have tabled to the committees, with the social dividends that the Samara - Venizelos government gave, which had effectively dropped the objective of the primary surplus in 2014, since it was essentially entered in this budget rather than in the 2013 surplus. But that's a story now. Indeed, the European and global economic crisis and the austerity policies imposed by those who have been implementing neoliberal policies for many years have created a very increased risk of poverty - this is the right definition, Mr Javarras - and they have led the social state to collapse. How much is that number of households in our country? About nine hundred thousand. And the population at risk of poverty is 35.7%. Unfortunately, child poverty is also very increased, with our country being in the third place in registered poverty in the European Union after Bulgaria and Romania. However, a number of inaccuracies have been heard here that this percentage has been increased by the Government of SYRIZA. That's not true. ELSTAT's figures, which I will present in the Minutes, show that the population at risk of poverty or social exclusion in 2009 and 2010 was at the level of 27.7% and until 2014 on PASOK and New Democracy governments was launched to 36%. And of course, we apologise because 2015 remains at high levels, although there is a slight reduction. We have not even succeeded, and that is why we are legislating in this direction. In addition, you are accusing us of not supporting poverty, but of supporting pensioners and not the unemployed, because we have chosen to give this category the social dividend. Let me remind you here that in 2009 unemployment was at 9.5%, and on your day it reached the explosive 27% by massive shifting from permanent jobs to part-time jobs, with the destruction of eight hundred and thirty-three thousand jobs, and three hundred and forty-three small businesses were closed down. What did we do in this year and a half? Something we have managed to reduce unemployment to about 23% - we do not welcome this - but in 2016 it seems that the first eleven months are positive and is formed at a hundred and twenty-five thousand and twenty-eight new jobs, making the highest performance since 2001. In addition, new recruitments show a trend towards the destruction of permanent jobs with 46% of jobs being full-time and not partial or rotating. This increase in employment to 1.4% is one of the highest performances of the European Union, above the average of European countries both in the Eurozone, which is 1.2%, and in the European Union of '28', which is 1.1%. Also, because you are expressing positions with which you more or less accuse us of maintaining a obscene public system with double staff, with dual services, to say here that what we are trying to do is to reform and create the absolutely necessary services and bodies with as much transparency as possible, but in line with the state's needs for the benefit of citizens. And, of course, I should like to say here that for many years - and this has been recorded in the collective memory and consciousness - you were following this rule, setting up directories, institutions, agencies, authorities, and even university departments, with the aim, unfortunately, of 'days' services. Indicatively, that is why you will allow me - because the issue has risen too high - to present all the special advisers to the Ministry of Health, which is half of what the previous ministers of the New Democracy and PASOK have used. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On our side, therefore, and despite the retreats - you will give me one, two more minutes, Mr President - which we have done to keep the country on our European track, we continue to fight for the reversal of the situation and for the exit of the country from the Memorandum and the Commissionership, for the development with social protection and protection of vulnerable groups. Here too, we are establishing the mechanism with criteria so that candidates can get as much information as possible and the beneficiaries of transparency and, of course, use the experience, know-how, premium the objectivity, design, good management and proper allocation of available resources. I note, therefore, that the operation of this mechanism will, of course, allow the right and effective and fair provision of the Social Solidarity Benefit, as has been demonstrated by the pilot study that has already been completed and which has been found to be in the right direction. There are other differences in the CRL, which I certainly do not have the time to develop. It has been said that it is not just an allowance, but that it is a programme that gives the possibility of interconnecting with very important services to the beneficiaries, but above all that it enables a 10% of people who enter there for accessibility to the labour market to break the poverty cycle through this process, recalling that 1/3 of the people who are entitled to the CRL are not even registered in the OAU to know their rights. The bill also contains provisions concerning the orderly functioning of EVA, trying to ensure a smooth transition from the old to the new regime, with the aim of ensuring maximum service for insured and retired persons.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u411	Good. But put a perfect one now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u412	I shall conclude, Mr President. In a minute, please. The aim is to help this process and the smooth payment of all those that have not been paid, such as the one-off pensions that are late, etc. Of course, there has also been criticism here, but I will leave that for tomorrow and say that there are also amendments in the right direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u413	And tomorrow it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u414	Finally, I note that the state must have a serious and planned social policy and that its responsibilities should not be assigned to state or private charity, NGOs or the Church. The defence and safeguarding of basic rights, which some call them civil rights, which are constantly shrinking and compressing into the altar of the crisis and spending cut, leading to great strata of the population in poverty and social exclusion, are an obligation of the state. A left-wing government, despite the difficulties, must strive constantly in this direction. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u415	Before giving the floor to the Minister, he has an absolute exception for two minutes to propose something to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u416	Of course, Mr President. To abolish services for the purpose of restructuring services, agencies and bodies and their new structure in the counties is today an accident for local communities in the country, but also for their economies. To abolish services in border regions such as Evros at a distance of 500 metres from our river borders with the eastern neighbour, is an act of dismantling intently promoted covering units, with what this implies for the region and for our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u417	This has to do with the bill under discussion?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u418	He has, Mr. President. Recently, services have been abolished in Evros. Today, for the first time, I received a letter - a proposal from the fifty-four employees of the IKA store, Alexandroupolis, requesting that the address be established by the Regional Court of Insurance, the well-known PKA, as the law describes, in the capital of the Prefecture of Evros, in Alexandroupolis, which supports institutional factors of Alexandroupolis and Evros. As the 50-four employees - and indeed innovative and ingeniously - stress in their letter - in fact, the traders should travel from the triangle of Evros, from Ormene, 190 km to Alexandroupolis. The next distance to the edge of the region of eastern Macedonia and Thrace is 160 km. Therefore, Alexandroupolis and kilometres, but also in terms of building infrastructure and staff, is offered to set up this centre there. I think I am clear and our request is justified. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u419	Thank you, Mr. Treasury. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u420	I imagine that what has just been mentioned will be discussed tomorrow on the basis of the opinion of the State Secretary responsible, because it is the ECA. Mr President, I am entitled to eighteen minutes from what Mr Kaklamanis informed me this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u421	You may not need them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u422	Yeah, maybe.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u423	How do you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u424	I said what it is, because you put ten minutes, you know. But in the process...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u425	I don't blame you in time there. Talk now and we see. We're not wronging anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u426	The Minister has spoken before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u427	I put ten minutes. That's it! It's over! It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u428	Is that possible? Wait a minute. We don't haggle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u429	Please. It's over. Keep going!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u430	Listen to me. You know the process very well. I was informed by the President this morning that both Ministers, and me and Mr Petropoulos, have the opportunity to reply afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u431	The President-in-Office now informs you that you have ten minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u432	Uh, but how is it going to happen now? I won't deliver.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u433	But we've already had two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u434	No, Mr. President. Right now, I'm not...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u435	Mr President, we rapporteurs have not been misled. Then we want a dentist too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u436	Good. You should do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u437	Please. It's over. We won't recycle the process. This thing can't be done. Madam Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u438	The Rules of Procedure say a second one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u439	That's the way it always happens. If you have new things now, tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u440	What did you say? I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u441	Mr President, first of all, I would like to apologise to you and to all colleagues here, because I have previously been drawn away from unreasonable behaviour by an institution of the Anti-Population Officer, and I have responded. It is a mistake to respond to interventions that throw Parliament's level and are targeted by outrageous accusations, obviously following the ghellag - I mean Geebbels, the Minister of Hitler -'spoken, slander, something will remain'. So I apologise. Secondly, I will refer to the indicators of poverty and to page 166 of the report of the Governor of the Bank of Greece for 2015, tabled by Mr Brutsis. It's one of the known poaching that's happening. I mean, Mr. Brutsis didn't testify on pages 164 and 165, which I shall testify to, and only filed page 166. I will now submit to the Minutes both these pages and explain to you what has happened. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Mr Theanos Fotio, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Firstly, the Bank of Greece uses EUROMOD in terms of issues and indices of poverty. EUROMOD makes its reports on the basis of citizens' views on issues rather than on the basis of ELSTAT, EUROSTAT or anyone else's definitions. At the same time, in the previous pages, which I have just tabled, the Bank of Greece itself says that its assessments did not include the fight against the humanitarian crisis. In other words, these were not even asked whether they had relief. Instead, I present ELSTAT's report on the population at risk of poverty or social exclusion in 2015, which took place on 23-6-2016. What's he saying there? Just the backwards of what they just said. It's unlikely that the smuggling of the L.A. officer who wants to become a government with lies! Just lying! So, there, what's it talking about? It is reported that the population at risk of poverty or social exclusion in 2012 was 34.6%, 2013 was 35.7%, 2014 was 36% and 2015, for which the reason was 35.7%. I mean, he fell. Is it to be proud? It's to be sorry. But no such specs! So I would like to put this before you, too, to inform the Qualified Opposition. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Mr Theanos Fotio, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Now, these are also the well-known ones that you have said about the 3.5% surpluses that we have signed. Firstly, it was not what the Greek Government signed. Another lie and poaching! It was a referral from the Commission. In other words, that is where the Commission considers that there will be a primary surplus of 3.5%. But there is another compliance report, this time the IMF, which reports primary surpluses of 1.5% over the coming years. These texts are not binding on the Greek Government, neither 3.5% of the Commission nor 1.5% of the IMF. You know that well. They were not signed by the Greek Government, but they are permanently the history you do and for which you insist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u442	Who did you sign?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u443	Unfortunately, with this false agreement - because this is not a truth agreement that you have done, but a lie agreement - I do not know how far ahead you are going, because the lie is completely short of legs. With regard to the fuss you have all made, from the Civic Opposition with its Vice-President and from the Democratic Alliance, and so on, I am astonished. However, when I remembered what had happened again in a similar bill in 2015 on the humanitarian crisis to which I was rapporteur, I realized that it was a permanent one. Do you remember exactly what happened then? Then Kostelo didn't come out and said that the humanitarian crisis law was a one-sided act of the government? Aren't you ready to go away, then the Opposition? You didn't come back again, in any case, and you voted for the law, and nothing, of course, happened? Calm down, then! Please show coolness. And that's what we're gonna answer. This story is a well-known story of lenders. We're stable on what we're doing. The measures will be voted on tomorrow by Parliament and you will see that nothing will happen again in the future. Let's say a few words about the bill. It was a sin to this whole explosion today, because you know that when the parties finally agree to vote for a bill, somehow tension needs to be created, it must somehow be found that we are "the authentics" and "the liars", that we are "the incompetent" and "the capable". That is why, of course, instead of having the courage to vote against a bill and to finish it, you make an artificial polarization. Okay. [[At this point, the end of the time bell of Mrs. Deputy Minister hits a warning bell.]] However, I have to say to you: what this mechanism wanted to do and how it is linked to the European Union's policies on the NRP, I have said so frankly. We never hide behind our finger. But beyond what was the country's obligation, what are we doing with this bill? Did you, if you haven't figured it out, should you think about it again? This bill does not just make a mechanism, but restores the public character of the provincial state. It was well understood that the river that is against everyone, every sense of public opinion. This wants legal persons of private law, wants companies or does not want any publicity at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u444	We're anti-corruption and bail in public.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u445	He understood it very well, and he'd do well to vote against it. But I did not understand why the JRC, which is in favour of the public character of social protection, does not vote for it when the only case for creating a public power to control social protection, was what we did. That is, indeed, from a state of social protection broken up by an administration broken up, only fifty-four employees are serving in welfare today. They do whatever's in our portfolio. Of course, we are strengthening them with thirty-nine transitions and moves. Of course, we are taking into account the law that we voted on, but it will be implemented in April. By then all the services will have been served legally. First of all, do we not want that? Do we not want to have a strong state that can control the situation with people? Do we want it to be in the hands of charity unions? Do we want it to be in the hands of NGOs? Secondly, you knew very well that the mechanism could not work if there were no strong social services in local government. You know that. You all know that. That's what community centers do. Seven hundred and twenty people, with ASEP procedures - you want, you do not want - it will be those first people who will give all the information today, once all the mechanism is in place and the customer relations that you have built up the two parties that you have been ruling for for forty years. That's what you did. You didn't want all Greek citizens to have the information. You wanted them to go to the MPs, you wanted them to go to the mayors, to go to the ministers and thus to ensure a large clientele. That's what happened. And well, I understand how Potami says this thing, but if the KKE doesn't think it's important, I don't get it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u446	Are you talking about a client state, about a party state? Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u447	So we're going to set up the state-of-the-art welfare state. We'll set it up. That's why this mechanism is. We all have to understand that. The platform that connects government to community centers from morning to night on an online basis gives all the information to the government, as it gives it to the region and as it gives it to the municipalities. So no one will be able to make fun of anyone anymore, nor to hide. That's what matters. It is precisely our view of the public prosperous state, of public social protection. It's an important tool. That's why I understand any reactions. However, I do not understand how people who want the public sector to be strong, who really want the Greek citizens to no longer need any mediator and with dignity to go and learn all their rights, how they today may not vote on this mechanism. Because of course it is very easy to say that my party has given fruit to the Greek poor, instead of the poor man knowing that it is entitled to them, that it will take them by a specific procedure, that it is his fault and he will take them. This is the big difference in this mechanism. But we will also be coming back tomorrow so that I do not tire you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u448	To get tired, it's me, Minister, I'm not to rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u449	Mr President, I would like to speak. He mentioned five times the River.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u450	And the JRC 15, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u451	Time is running out, Mr. Amyras and Mr. Katsotis. I have something very important to announce. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty two students and students and four educational sessions from the 7th Agrinio High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We're compatriots!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u452	Is that why it was important?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u453	It's self-proofly important. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to inform the House that the Ministers for the Environment and Energy, Internal, Economic, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Infrastructure and Transport and the Deputy Ministers of Economy and Development, Environment and Energy have tabled a draft law on 14-12-2016: 'Spatial planning - sustainable development'. This draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent and is referred to the competent Standing Committee. The debate is adjourned on the principle of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity bill: "National Instrument for Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of Political Integration and Social Cohesion, Provisions on Social Solidarity and Application of Law No.4387/2016 (A'85) and other provisions". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u454	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u455	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u456	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u458	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u459	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u461	The Centro Association is missing. Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: “National Mechanism for Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of Political Integration and Social Cohesion, Regulations on Social Solidarity and Application Provisions of Law.4387/2016 (A'85) and other provisions” was accepted in principle by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Tuesday 25 October 2016, Monday 31 October 2016 and Wednesday 2 November 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u462	The minutes of Tuesday 25 October 2016, Monday 31 October 2016 and Wednesday 2 November 2016 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-14-S1-commons.u463	With the consent of the House at 18.57 the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 15 December 2016 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's legislative work: the continuation of the debate and the vote on the articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "National Mechanism for Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of Political Integration and Social Cohesion, Social Solidarity Arrangements and Application Provisions of Law No.4387/2016 (A'85) and other provisions".
