ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 19 September 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 1260/13-9-2016 of the New Democracy MP, Konstantinos Javara, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the declaration as the theocratic amplifier of the Municipalities of Andreida and Pineion and the adoption of measures to compensate the affected citizens. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction about the "displacement of 36,769 Greek children from nursery stations". 3. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the reopening of the Purification and Standardisation of the Union of Agricultural Cooperatives (ESA) Argolis "Esperides". 4. Under number 1257/13-9-2016, a timely question by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the fair compensation of the affected producers since the frost of March 2016, which caused extensive damage to the trees of Larissa Prefecture. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under the terms of the agreement, the company ‘Georgios Styriou’ and ‘Georgios Styriou’ (hereinafter ‘Minister of Finance’) will be responsible for the financial problems encountered by the suppliers of the company ‘Marinopoulou’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 1266/13-9-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Sakis Bardalis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Rural Development and Food, on the problem of heavy rainfall in the Municipality of Thermaikos of the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. 3. The Question No 1226/6-9-2016 by the Member of the Republic of Attica Mr Georgios Vlachos to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the abolition of Police Divisions in the Region of Attica. 4. The 1217/5-9-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the published balance sheet of the Objective Federation (SGI). 5. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Saridis, Member of the European Parliament, with regard to visas with the words ‘Macedonia’, under number 1220/5-9-2016, was answered by MP A'Thessalonica, Mr Ioannis Saridis, Minister for Foreign Affairs. 6. The question of the situation of red loans to Evros and Thrace under number 1227/6-9-2016. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the "unjustifiable release of the Tobacco Unit from Agios Kosmas". 8. The question by No 1225/6-9-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about the possibility of reintegrating into the regulation of the hundreds of doses for all those who lost it and regardless of reason. 9. The question by number 1231/6-9-2016 of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning the drastic reduction of disabled pensions and allowances of the HEIs. 10. The question under number 1191/29-8-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the protection of citizens from excessive bank charges.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question by MP Laconia of New Democracy, Athanasios Davakis, Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the freezing of bilateral relations with Iran, will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister, Mr Xydakis, abroad. The second question under number 1252-12-9-2016, first question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the "blankian action by Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace", will not be discussed due to the unsettled obligations of the Deputy Minister for Civilian Protection Mr. Nikolaos Toskas. The eighth Question No 1208/2-9-2016, on mergers of police department in Thessaloniki, will not be discussed due to the unsuccessful obligations of the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection, Mr. Nicholas Toska. The third, with number 1254/12-9-2016, a top-circuit question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the situation in the Athens Concert Hall, will not be discussed for health reasons of the Minister of Culture Mr. Aristides Baltas. We wish him passively. The fourth question under number 1263/13-9-2016, first question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the treatment of public hospitals' problems due to the shortcomings in modern medical equipment, will not be discussed due to a workload of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis. The fifth question under number 1249/12-9-2016, first question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, Potamios, Isona Fotilis, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the reintroduction of the single book price, will not be discussed due to a meeting with the institutions of the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism Mr. George Statakis. The fourth under number 1248/12-9-2016 topical question by the Independent MEP 2, Eftathiou (Stathi) Panagoulis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the costs of the "deputies of the institutions" in the public sector, will not be discussed as a result of a hindrance - a workload of the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou. The sixth question, under number 1206/31-8-2016, is the second question of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotaras to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the "anothermal action of Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace", will not be discussed due to the official obligations of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr.Ioannis Amanatidis. Also, due to unsuccessful obligations of the Minister of Home Affairs Mr Panagiotis Kourublis, the second question will not be discussed with number 1264/13-9-2016, with regard to the recent destructive flooding in Peloponnese, the seventh with number 1250/12-9-2016, the first question of MP I' Thessaloniki, Mr Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Reconstruction, concerning the second question of the subordination of the Technical Service of the Municipality of Arrians, Rodopi, as well as the seventh question with number 1216/5-9-2016, of the Second Cycle of the Volegelist of Heraklion, with regard to the uptake of all children's children's rights and rights. For all these questions which have been postponed, there is also a letter from the Secretary of Government, Mrs Kalogerou, confirming the reasons. It's very kind of him to let us know. It is precisely the same reasons and so confirms what you have heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, can I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u5	What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u6	I want a clarification. Although I am a new Member, as you know I was first elected in 2012, the term "workload" of the Minister in parliamentary control I have never heard of him. I mean, IE Period wasn't that term. The ministers, when they were in Greece, came and answered. When he was abroad, on a mission of the government, for which the Prime Minister had been authorized, according to the presidential decree on the government, they were, of course, absent. For two and a half years, I worked fourteen hours a day, but I don't think I missed any questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u7	Mr Metarakis, because you are rightly complaining - other colleagues have protested - and this has been the subject of the Conference of Presidents, I will inform you about that. In fact, the questions which are not being discussed, according to Mr Voutsi, have reached about 70%, that is to say, far more than we have always met in this House. We have made a decision: there will be a revision of Section II of the Rules of Procedure of the House, which deals with these matters, and there we will look at how this will be improved both from our point of view and from the point of view of the 'chinese' of the Ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u8	It has been proposed by colleagues - and I think it is a very good idea - to give the opportunity for the protology of the honourable Member, in the absence of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u9	All this has been discussed at the Conference of Presidents and will be taken into account when the debate on the revision of Section II of Parliament's Rules of Procedure begins in October.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u11	Here you go, Mr. Synchronous.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I'll speak in the same spirit. It was today to discuss my timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u13	Yeah, I saw it. You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u14	It's a timely question. You're gonna tell me it's two while we've had eight postponements. As you have said, it is about 70% of the unscheduled topicals. But what is the quality element? The quality of the matter is that it is being systematically done, and we, at least, take it as a refusal by the Minister or any minister to place itself on a crucial issue of the kindergartens when we know that forty-eight thousand children will be left out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u15	The news is missing, you're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u16	The news is missing. Therefore, they must also be taken seriously from the Bureau of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Synhonaki, this is not the right place here. You have your representatives and Mr Pafilis at the Conference of Presidents everything you say has been said several times. It is just now in plenary that I am abusing the floor, because today is a few questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u18	It has an extra value, because there are people following up the topical questions. When he sees that one timely question is postponed behind the other, you realize that this is negative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u19	I'm not wrong with you. But there are also ministers who are extremely consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u20	Let this obsolete excuse stop for ‘commitments’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u21	There will be no solution here, Mr Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u22	Obligation is for the Minister to come and answer. The Minister's procedure and attitude are unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u23	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, may I give an answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u25	You have the floor, Mr Alexiadis, even though they are not your complaints.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u26	Mr Alexiadis is diligent!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u27	It's not about me, it's about the government. Let me give you an answer. What it sounds like is one side of the moon! Let's see the other one. Last week, Monday, Thursday, Friday, I had to come and answer current questions this week, Thursday, Friday and find out I have Monday. I will shortly be in this category, because it needs to be regulated at Parliament level. One of this. Secondly, Mr Tsakalotou's programme, which I have a full picture of because we are in the same ministry, is so burdensome, not only for fourteen hours a day, if we put travel abroad and the obligations and preparations for the institutions. This time the institutions are here and he has a huge task on his back. No slogans can be heard for his absence. I am talking about this Minister, because I have a picture of his programme that goes far beyond fourteen hours. Sometimes it's one of five o'clock in the morning, because it comes back from a trip and has a duty to Parliament or anything else. So let's see things in their real dimension and all look at how we're going to deal with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u28	I appreciate the effort to get on your back the entire Treasury, Mr. Alexiadis. However, since you snuck at me, I will tell you that, although I acknowledge that Mr Tsakalotos is a minister who has travelled, it is not justified that a seven-timely question has been postponed on behalf of Mr Kim Glen. No matter how much travel, no matter how much workload it is, it is not justified that it has been postponed seven times! In any case, I can only say good words to you and you are right about every day when you are being put to you because you are coming. And that is an issue that will also be solved by the homogenisation of the questions of a ministry. You're right. We've discussed this with Mr. Voutsi. You'll be patient for a month. We won't trouble you all the time. So we begin the debate with the sixth under No 1255/13-9-2016 topical question of the first cycle of MP II Piraeus, the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, on the fight against smuggling of fuel. Here, Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Mr. Alexiadis. Thank you for being here today and yesterday. Today we have to discuss the issue of the fight against fuel smuggling. I will submit to the Minutes, for any colleague who needs to have an image, Mr Marda's report, which speaks of EUR 2.5 billion of revenues that have been lost every year from the smuggling of fuel. Most conservative studies put it down to 600. But it's not 6 euros. There's too much money lost. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Smuggling and fuel fraud have emerged as the biggest, most serious and uncontrolled problem, which puts at risk public health and creates holes in the revenues of the Greek State. According to studies, the most modern and effective method of controlling fuel fraud is molecular traceability. It is a chemical element that is placed in the quantities of liquid fuels and can be monitored for their movement at all levels. The Ministry of Finance expressed the optimism from early 2016 that all measures would be implemented by the end of June at the latest. I am aware of the joint ministerial decisions, such as from 27-6 2014, but also from 3-2-2016 - I have them in front of me, but I do not submit them, because they are public documents - to set up the work members of the Ministry of Finance to set up a draft joint ministerial decision on these issues. I am also aware that the work of the working party was completed on 8 March, several months ago. He sent it to the Treasury and you'll ask about it. So we have a conclusion about what we have to do since March, and we must now, since the first negotiations have ended - and I understand the delay due to negotiations with the institutions - speed up. Another measure which has not helped to combat the smuggling - and we must say it - is the installation of the input-outs system in the offices, which has cost all operators and the public over 100 million euros and has not been exploited. How has it not been exploited? We'll have to report it. The Association of Oil Trading Companies reports that 98% of stations have the system. 94% of the data go to the Ministry, but are neither controlled nor exploited by the General Secretariat of Information Systems due to a lack of staff. That's what the Association denounces. We need to check it out. We put the system in. But what if we don't have the world to control? Someone's gonna say no we didn't put it in, the previous government put it on. However, I do not want to lie - and Mr Metarakis is here - that the previous government has put the system in order to supply the EUR 100 million. Because if you don't bring the revenue, then what are you doing? You're putting a system in place without anyone who can control the data on smuggling? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm sorry, Mr. President, to abuse another twenty seconds. Ask yourself, Minister: How do you intend to deal with fuel smuggling? Why, while the regulation has been in force since 2012, is the report of the activated molecular traceability provision delayed? What are the results of the management team's work so far, as I said, and the conclusion that has come out since March 2016? And why...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u30	Questions are written. The Minister has seen them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much. I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u32	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. The issue of fuel smuggling is really a major issue. I propose that we should at some point, Mr Kammene, have a detailed debate in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on what has happened in the field of fuel smuggling, in the area of tobacco smuggling, to have the time to submit everything. We have this for granted. We have a full legislative framework. On the issue of fuel smuggling, we do not have to bring in any new legislation, namely, bringing in a new bill, as we had in tobacco smuggling. However, we have the strangest thing to do with very good legislation since 2012, 2013, 2014, which they predicted? They provided for very appropriate measures with a poisonous detail that a joint ministerial decision had to be adopted. And that stayed somewhere in the ministry drawers. I would like to assure you that all three issues - I will speak in detail about them - are an attempt to speed up action. And I'm saying they're going too fast, and I understand the language force. But we are making a great effort to make these things much faster, to make these ministerial decisions. This committee is over. We are now in the study phase for the joint ministerial decision to resolve the tracers' issue. The tracers - I will say it very soon, like you - are an element that will enter the fuel when it comes out of the refinery. And whenever we find this fuel and check it, we'll know when, where it left, what quantity and where it was intended. So if we find a fuel in Lamia that had to go to Tripoli, we'll know it's a smuggling product. Or if we find fuel, which is for another use, going for another use, it will still be a smuggling product. It will give us a very good tool to check after the oil is released. So I assure you, as far as the tracers are concerned, that the procedures are going too far. There was a question of whether or not the tracer's chemical molecule should be revealed. This created problems because serious companies, which can claim the tenders, would never come to say that this is the chemical molecule, that is, 'this is the composition of the tracer I sell', because it could then be copied. This was overcome by a document we made in the European Union, and according to a written response from the European Commission, it is not compulsory for the Member States to make the chemical type public. And I would like to inform you that the European Commission has already provoked a challenge of interest for a new European technology tracker dated 31-3 and an end to the imposition of the new molecule before 31-12-2016. For full information, I present a series of documents from the Ministry of Finance, the General Secretariat of Industry of the Ministry of Economy and Development, the General Secretariat of Information Systems, the General Secretariat of Public Revenue on how many checks were carried out, etc. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Trif Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In my second speech, I'll answer the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Minister. The image you give us is encouraging. I want to hope and believe - and we will be audited for this - that in the year, in 2016 that we are now in and in the next few months, after we sign the joint ministerial decisions, there are systems, the tender is made, so that at the end of the year or the beginning of 2017 we can have the system put in place. To start reducing the revenue loss so that this loss of revenue can also be put in figures in the 2017 budget for 2018. Because it is also 600 million a year to be 700 and not 2.5 billion, calculated by Mr Mardas, it is too high the amount and we cannot close our eyes or delay any more. Along with the tobacco, which we have finished, the issue of fuels and VAT, as we said yesterday, must be over, and we close almost 90% of the loss, at least the obvious and huge, revenues for the public, which is your responsibility. There is also a huge issue with customs. I have to say this because both in Evros, from Turkey, both at our borders with Albania and with Skopje and Bulgaria, because of the crisis - and not only this year, but also in previous years - many tankers in too many ways are smuggling. I will also leave a small document that I have, which explains exactly how the smuggling is taking place - step by step at the border, what they say not to say, how they tranship liquid fuels to Turkey and to all borders for information. And I'm going to ask a special question about customs for that reason. Like also boats, so-called slelets or barbies, as they say on the market, which unload inland fuel and become smuggling. That is where Mr Sifas pointed out, if I am not mistaken, Mr Kaklamanis may remember better than us because we were not in the House for four years that he remained immobilised smuggling ships taken in 2008 at the cost of buying two million euros to locate the invisible slelets, these small vessels that unload in the middle. I'm filing it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like, Minister, if you have the time and the kindness of informing us so that I do not have to ask another question. Have we received these ships? Is something wrong? Has he been in public? Is he on duty? If not, let's do it if the others didn't do it in 2008. So that we can also pursue smuggling at sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u36	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u37	I will be the last Member to say that in the area of smuggling, in the area of tax evasion, we have done everything we had to do and we are reassuring and resting on our laurels. We have to do a lot of work and we need to move a lot faster and we have to do a lot of things to do. We know the problems, especially in fuel smuggling, we know what is behind this story, who is serving. There is, however, another very important factor, the issue of competition, because serious businesses, which do not want to engage in this sport, cannot respond and are forced to withdraw from the market or have terrible financial problems, while others create such structures as help smuggling and can and can impose their views on the fuel market and not just because they extend elsewhere. We know situations, faces, etc. As far as fuel smuggling is concerned, three are the axes we are moving: firstly, the issue of fuel detection, secondly, the issue of GPS placement and thirdly, the question of the full application of the system of input-outputs. I'll start from the input-outs system, because for tracking I said. The system of input-outputs has been placed in 98% of gasoline, as we said. It has been placed at about 72% of the refinery and taxable warehouse structures. There we are at the implementation stage and this process is going on. We are, that is, in implementing these things and we will press for them to be applied more quickly and for the legislative framework in place in the system of input-outs to be applied. Of course, this is not just about putting the system in place and collecting the data, because we have filled the Ministry of Finance with warehouses - I remember before - with a whole range of files, which no one has checked or now with computer files that are not inspected as they should. So that's where we're doing concrete actions and we're going to get results. I want to go with the GPS system. The conclusion of the committee which has been provided for years and has never been made, two joint ministerial decisions were adopted in December and April and we are now in the process of implementing this system. What I want to say to you is that all three systems, traceability, GPS and input-out systems are three parallel actions, which we are pushing to run as quickly as possible, because we have the feeling and information that once these systems work, a large part of the market will be refined, public revenues will be increased and the public revenues of the public will be stopped and these tramps that exist at the present time will be stopped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u38	Minister, if you know, can you tell us about the two special boats that my colleague said? Is there an answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u39	I don't have a picture right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u40	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u41	The picture I have right now is that these ships have been used, but more detailed I will let you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u42	Okay. You've been covered, Mr. Cammene, maybe partly towards the end, but the Minister can see it. Before we move on to the debate on the second topical question to Mr Alexiadis, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, National Defence, Foreign, Finance and Deputy Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction tabled a draft law on 15-9-2016: "Planting the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the fields of Research and Rescue". Secondly, the Finance, Culture and Sports Ministers, the Environment, Energy and Infrastructure, Transport and Networks submitted a draft law on 15-9-2016: "Structuring of the 14-11-2014 Share Sales Agreement for the acquisition of 100% of the company's share capital "ELLENIC SA" and of the 19-7-2016 Amendment Convention and other related issues". They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. We move to the debate of the first under No 1259/13-9-2016 topical question of the second-round question of the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Finance on the inertia of dealing with 'grey leases' in private rents as a tourist accommodation. Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are here today to answer my timely question about the 'grey leases' of tourist accommodation, while I would, of course, expect the relevant Minister, Mrs Kountoura, to answer the question to which I have addressed the question properly. Of course, Mrs. Kundura unreservedly declared the ball to your department. It is worth noting, however, how it is unreserved to say, when it is the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism, what has completely liberated these leases by Law4336/2015, when it is the specific ministry responsible for the institutional framework of tourist leases in general, and when, of course, Mrs Koudouras and Mr Stathakis, where they are found and where they stand, say that they are coming with their own signature - the draft has also been launched in consultation - this legislation has been laid down. Of course, although the Minister is not here, this is not the first time she has not been responding. I am still waiting, Minister - and I would like it to be recorded in the Minutes - for the reply of the Minister for the impact of the refugee on the tourism of the islands of the north-eastern Aegean and the islands of the Dodecanese. I would therefore ask that it be recorded. To go very quickly to the essence of this question. At the same time, Mr Minister, when your government asks you for the troika to provide EUR 2.8 billion, which unfortunately is in the air, because of your once again political insufficiency, close your eyes in front of a shadowy economy, the 'grey' lease economy, with a turnover of more than EUR 2 billion per year, as studies say. Your Government is provokingly indifferent, despite repeated announcements, to bring legislation to the House, to stop this paramilitary economy and your Government is fully responsible, Minister, because you have just assumed the rule, since the summer of 2015, you have fully freed these leases, so that the distinction between licensed and non-inhabited accommodations is abolished by your own legislative intervention, so that everyone can rent from one day as much time as he wants "black", without any return, his private property as tourist accommodation. So I ask very quickly, Minister, because one year after this complete liberalisation you have not brought the necessary legislative framework for regulating this regime, until July 2016, as you have repeatedly promised. And since Parliamentary Control - you will allow me, Mr President - it must reflect living political reality, I would like to ask you, Minister. Because since last night we have watched closely what has happened with the central banker, Mr. Stournara, with the prosecutors who were sent to his house, incidentally a few hours later, since the Bank of Greece did not approve the new leadership of Attica Bank - the chosen ones of your government - and his wife, Mr. Stournara, speaks of a feasibility that is aimed at her husband.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u44	Say your question, don't abuse.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u45	Allow me, Mr President, to conclude. So tell us, Mr. Minister, and enlighten public opinion, what is going on with Mr. Stournara's case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u46	All right, I would like to say that if he wishes to answer the second question, the Minister is not formally required. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for your question. I want to discuss, frankly, an important problem that concerns Greek tourism, you wanted to extend to other issues as well as to other ministers. To be able to answer for other ministers, I don't have the opportunity. Of course, I am surprised by the small list of responsibilities you have for this government. I thought you'd blame us for dematerializing 1974, for the Stock Exchange scandal, for all the things that happened in the country that led us here. You haven't charged us with this yet. I'm guessing you're next, but I'm not going to stand on it. I would like to dwell on a very serious political argument which has been heard in this Chamber, which I would like to stress. You said: 'The Prosecutors have been sent'. You know here you have to decide. Or justice is independent and we all defend the independence of justice or want to restore justice to functions that have been proved in previous years and has often denounced your party or your own members when they were in certain specific positions. We, therefore, do not use tax services to send them for criticism to the media, as has happened in your days or in previous governments, nor in any case do we have any reason to use justice and prosecutors. It is very serious what you said, and I hope you understand what you said, that the prosecutors have been sent. So, do you think that at the moment we're getting an orderly prosecutor's investigation? It's a serious political argument. You need to get in position. I do not want to stand on this anymore, because I want to go to the point of the question. You charged us with your question with continuing indifference in this matter. I am sorry, now, to understand, of course, and we have a responsibility as government that we did not bring this legislative framework beforehand, which you said and you know. But you know very well that we have not brought this legislative framework, because we are still at a stage of negotiation. We could have brought both the irresponsible account and the voluntary disclosure of funds for plastic money, and that is why the provisions were earlier. I can assure you that they would not be the rules which would address the problems, that is, they would provide a solution and bring revenue to the public, which is why the negotiations are continuing. We don't hide it. Besides, the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki, with a great deal of political adequacy, said the issue of speed and delay in negotiations. The country's Prime Minister said so publicly. I don't have to say that. So I do not agree at all that there is a delay. There is a negotiation and there is a tough negotiation and you can be sure that there will be something very positive from the negotiation. For the content now of the provisions that we shall bring in, I shall immediately reply to my remarks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u48	Here, Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u49	As far as'sent' is concerned, Minister, I would say that 'whoever has the fly smells'. The Greek people say so. After all, after the Prime Minister's replies to the PMI in relation to the Council of State, you obviously have the reason to "secret". I specifically asked, Minister. The New Democracy's positions on independence and the defence of the independence of justice are well known, and please do not fire where they are not appropriate. I specifically asked you to enlighten the Greek people, who listened to us, but you preferred the paralysing logic and logic of intimidation, you will allow me to say. Now, I don't know what you're negotiating, Minister, a year after the complete release of leases, but to remind you that something similar has been done with Mr. Varoufakis, as I imagine you'd like not to remember, with the rental of the house where taxes have not been paid, etc. It was a similar example of these "grey" leases. You are showing a scandalous indifference, Minister, in order to protect legitimate competition, legitimate tourists, our tourism and above all to lose - and that should interest you, Minister - the public revenue lost for the national economy. You are therefore indifferent to a sector that contributes 20% of GDP to the national economy. It offers these seven hundred thousand valuable jobs. Do you know the numbers, Minister? They are indeed shocking from this 'grey' lease economy and you come here, from the Stepping of the House, and tell us that one year you are negotiating for a landscape that you left unregulated. We didn't leave it. You completely released them as consistent in the troika, in the OECD toolbox. You have released them all, as you have released the days of milk, as you released the regime in yoghurt. You who would edit the memorials, have become the most enthusiasts of the OECD memorial and toolbox. The figures, Minister, are indeed shocking. We said: They are two billion tons of this 'grey' economy, 270 million euros a year from taxes not attributed, income taxes, insurance contributions, VAT, municipal fees, paramilitary taxes, 588 million euros losses for the hotel industry, with what this means for its competitiveness and over fifteen thousand jobs a year. These are studies that the Hotel Chamber of Greece, FORTH, has submitted, and we are talking about 2015. I fear, Minister, that, not to say I am sure, that if measured - measured at the moment - and given the results, they will be much higher. We must be clear, Minister, something. Of course, the New Democracy is not opposed to the sharing economy. The economy of sharing is a product, an international practice that certainly takes great proportions. The New Democracy wants this to be done by rules and legality. What is opposed is the 'grey' economy that is blossoming in it. It's the result of your own weakness. There is a complete absence of systematic recording through a special register of illegal accommodation, a complete failure to certify the hygiene and safety of these accommodations, the consolidation of tax asymmetry in tourism, which should be of great interest to you, the enlargement of the "black" work, the launch of tax evasion and tax evasion. Of course, it is another blow to the image of our country as the safe tourist destination.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u50	Complete, Mrs. Arabaji.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u51	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Give me a minute, please. I want to insist, Minister. The New Democracy has kept toenails and teeth, despite the persistence of the troika, the leases on 30 days, under which the leases are considered to be tourists, but there is control. You came and one day everyone rents anyone who wants anything, considering the tourist rental without any control. It is, Minister, challenging that you left the landscape in a very critical tourism and economic period during the summer season. In other words, where there would be the orgy of this "grey" economy, you left the landscape with the announcements for the end of July 2016 set. That is what happened at the moment, Mr Minister, for taxing the tourism sector from 13% to 24%, abolishing islands, 6.5% to 13%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u52	Mrs. Arabatzis, you need to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u53	I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you for your tolerance. You have ruthlessly taxed legitimate tourist entrepreneurship, from which our national economy makes too much revenue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u54	Mrs. Arabatzis, I can't abuse any more. You speak five minutes and five in your prototype. Instead of five in total, I've left you ten. Please, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u55	I'm closed. Since the landscape was not regulated, Minister, why didn't you check to press those "grey" leases with the mechanisms which you have as the Ministry of Finance? Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u56	Minister, you will have the relative tolerance if you need it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u57	It will not be necessary, Mr President, because I believe that it is not the development of a argument, but the gravity of a argument. Despite the young lady's age, who gives her the opportunity to remember greater than I am, and in my fifty-six I understand that my memory has begun and left me, I remember very well what had been said in something Zappeia, what you were saying in an election about a number of things and I remember, mostly and remember what the Greek people did like government. What New Democracy cannot understand is that the people do not judge her for the opposition she makes to the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. The people are judging her for what she did. And, fortunately, for us as government what is being promoted and what appears is the repetition of what you have done. So, thank you very much for the gift. As long as you want to return Greece where you brought it, it is the best argument for us. On the substance of the question, however, I do not agree that nothing has happened. We have carried out audits and I will give you documents from both the General Secretariat of Public Income and the Ministry of Economy and Development and from the Labour Inspectorate and the Ministry of Social Security and a series of services. I won't tire you. I will give you documents on all these issues, where it appears that controls have been carried out and are being carried out continuously and, in fact, in all directions, without discrimination, and that we are also taking part in relevant European actions for such evasion phenomena and in the context of mutual administrative assistance with other Member States. I mean, that's not true what you said we didn't do any checks. We did too many checks, but we do a negotiation, not ten months. We have been negotiating for this period in recent months to see how we are going to deal with this particular legislative framework. I would remind you again that a year ago a piece of legislation, No.4346, was passed, which provided for a series of prerequisites. You voted then - two hundred and twenty-one Members voted for him - and when we go to implement this law, you come and criticize us for what we are implementing. There is no greater monument of political hypocrisy as a political party to do this. With regard to the bill, which we are negotiating and which is the final stage, however, it provides for an electronic register to be issued to every citizen who wants to engage in this activity, because we want to integrate a new activity into business. We don't have our ears closed and we don't close our eyes in front of reality. So we'll put it in. A register will be issued for this activity to everyone and, from there on, it will check a specific service if the suspension for the rental of such a property in Athens or elsewhere falls under this legislative framework. Controls and cross-checks can be made easier. You can tell us that there is a delay, but in no way indifference. We do not have indifference, especially for tourism, a sector which contributes a great deal to the national economy, but, as the summer controls have shown, it also contributes a great deal to tax evasion. The summer checks we have carried out and the store stamps have shown that, without discrimination, we are making checks where we need to. In this respect, be sure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your presence. Because you often make reference to what we voted last year, if I remember either the 'cutter' or the overseer was in what we voted on. We move on to the debate of the first under No 1258/13-9-2016 topical question by MP Chios of New Democracy Mr. Panagiotis Moutarakis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the exacerbation of the immigration problem in Chios. I think we will hear interesting things from both sides. Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will start with something positive: Thank you, Minister, for coming to the House within a few days to answer this topical question, which concerns an issue that really concerns public opinion. Unfortunately, other colleagues do not have the same sensitivity to this House, as we discussed today, at the beginning of the sitting. I tabled this timely question because the government comes, according to a communication we saw in the AIA last Friday, to propose the creation of three hotspots in Chios, charging the island with a disproportionate weight, rather than showing the sensitivity that a national region needs. Since then, of course, two new facts have emerged: firstly, the previous incidents in Chios, which we are all of course condemning, and secondly, Mr Buddour's television resignation. I will tell you straight away that with the choices made by the government, with the policy you are following, all you achieve is to entangle refugees and immigrants and, on the one hand, to throw water into the mill of racist perceptions and on the other hand, to fear. The second issue to which the government of course needs to put is Mr Buddour's complaints of delays, oligopolistics and excessive expenditure on immigrants. Minister, the Chiots have chosen to raise a burden that they did not have to bear. They were the first to accept the creation of a hotspot on the island. At their own expense, at the expense of the Municipality of Chios, VIAL was purchased. However, this was not recognized by the leaders. On the contrary, it seems to be perceived as weakness, and Chios is transformed into a new Ensemble. Today, it has three thousand refugees and immigrants, twice as many as in May, when the European Union and Turkey agreement came into force. Today Chios, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, has a 12-fold number of refugees and migrants in relation to the national average. You held a meeting last Friday, from which the two members of the prefecture were missing, Mr Michaelides of SYRIZA and myself. There you decided, as the announcement says, to create three hosting points in Chios. When we have official capacity for a thousand hundred people, today we have three thousand six hundred. When we go to official capacity of three thousand, how many will Chios have? Eight thousand? Minister - and I will close with that, Mr President - Chios does not trust this government. In October 2015 you promised to appoint a coordinator on the island. We had a strong dialogue at City Hall, I remind you. Unfortunately, we're right. He's still not appointed a coordinator. The Hiotes agreed to lease, buy the hotspot and give it free to the Ministry, with the promise that the refugees will be left for seventy-two hours. You have not complied with this obligation. You said that asylum procedures would proceed within a few weeks. You have not kept that promise. You have assured that with the agreement of the European Union and Turkey you will dismantle the island. That's not what happened. On the contrary, at the moment we have a definite situation. So I ask you in particular: How and when, with what procedures and what objectives will you proceed to measures so that Chios will bear a similar burden to the rest of the country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u60	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as Mr Metarakis is concerned, I believe that he is an intelligent and cultivated Member of Parliament with a personal professional mandate which guarantees what I have said before, that he is a smart man and a cultivated man. The way he is addressed to the House is a world. It is not a world, however, the way it is directed at the people of Chios. Mr. Metarakis, I have your own papers here - I will present them - where you are practically calling the people of Chios in an uprising. Cover practically the uprisings. You cover practically with your voices, which should not be done. Why are you asking for my resignation? [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Ioannis Mousalas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned publications, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Together with the Mayor, the Vice-President, the UN High Commissioner responsible and the European Commission representative - and I stress this - we have proposed very specific measures to alleviate the real problems facing the Chios people. And it is true that there is an overpopulation on our islands, especially in Chios and Mytilini, which, because of the changed nature of the problem, also creates real issues that did not exist before. We have therefore proposed an immediate transfer to the mainland of a significant number of refugees, whose asylum request has been referred to the normal procedure, to the operation of an interim detention centre in the area of Myrsinidi for people with infringement. And we had a demonstration - which you supported, Mr Mitaraki - of the villages in Myrsinidi. I'll testify the pictures from Myrsinidi. There are no villages. Vroddos is only a three-mile driveway, after you pass three mountains. And we are talking about a detention centre, which has been operating since 1997 and is simply being renovated, to operate again under better conditions. I'll testify to that, too. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Ioannis Mousalas, presents for the minutes the abovementioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] We have proposed and guaranteed EUR 3.7 million for the creation of a new space so that Vial can be relieved and - something that you hide, Mr Mitaraki and you do so on purpose - so that Souda and DDITH are finally dissolved, which creates an aesthetic and political problem in the city and for the people who live there. That is where we object. I'll also present you to HIDA. I would like to present the other proposal to you - because we do not know where - for the Cape. And there are no villages. Three mountains must pass. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Ioannis Mousalas, presents for the minutes the abovementioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] You do not want, Mr Metarakis, to solve the problem. I do not know if you are following the position of the New Democracy and the People's Party which says that the European Union-Turkey agreement is the solution. That's what we're following. You don't want refugees and immigrants. We didn't choose Chios. We didn't choose Mytilini. We didn't choose Samo. We've got it. The islands are there. The islands can't be transported. The Turkish authorities cannot be transferred. To "stoot back" to really relieve the people over there in Chios. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It doesn't make any sense. We have voted for the strengthening of the hospital and money has been secured. Listen to me about the asylum: In 2015, when the SYRIZA government came, the asylum had two hundred people. In August 2016, he has four hundred eighty plus fifty, which he has from the High Commissioner. Chios, six months ago, had no asylum. Today she has ten and in fifteen days she'll have eighteen. We want with us to support my request to the People's Party, which we have sent to all the ministers, so that the four hundred who have promised EASO to proceed with the proceedings can finally come. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Ioannis Mousalas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Mitaraki, you're not telling the truth when you say that the municipality bought the BIAL. The municipality bought Vial with money that the ministries also gave, the government paid and paid. It was a municipality plan to make use of it and as you know, half of BIAL is being exploited, as the municipality wanted and the other half is being exploited for hotspot. Overall from my Ministry, which has no money, from the paradoxes of the legitimate immigrants in Greece, the Municipality of Chios has received 650,000 euros, apart from what has been taken to the region and the municipality by Mr. Kourublis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u62	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u63	I shall conclude, Mr President. You insist on being transferred to the mainland. The deal's gonna go bad. The government will strive for the agreement to come into force with the European Union. You'll have to choose. We've made our choice. The people of Chios will be relieved by very concrete measures. Please withdraw your memory of patriotism, which I do not question, our memory of a cultivated man, who I do not question, and you can put your backs on so that practical problems can be solved. I am also presenting the memorandum with the mayor and the Vice-President, where we are talking about increasing the police force and all other measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u64	You're closing down with that, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u65	I'm closing, Mr. President. Mr Metarakis, you must be drawn up with the solution of the problem and not with the creation of new problems on the problems that need to be solved. We have corresponding problems in Mytilini. Mr....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Muzala, in your dentistry the rest. I can't leave you any more, you're talking seven minutes instead of three.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u68	Because of this, I also let you talk a little bit further, I will leave Mr Metarakis, but do not overdo it. Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for your personal good words and return them. However, I consider it insulting that I have any connection, indirectly or directly, with the incidents or mobilisations that have taken place in Chios, and I urge you in your denture to prove it specifically or I would ask you to withdraw it for reasons of order and morality. I have shown every sense of cooperation from the first moment. The Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. Vitsas, who is in the Chamber, can confirm it from his visits to Chios. Minister, we welcomed you with open arms in Chios. You came and committed yourself to some things. I said in my prototype that what you committed yourself to, you did not. Result? We find it difficult to trust you in what you're saying now. It doesn't make any impression to you, I imagine. There are specific things here. You held a meeting on Friday and I repeat that you did not invite the Members. I would remind you that my SYRIZA colleague has been very critical of you. You didn't call him, as you didn't call me. If you had summoned me, I would have responded to your attempt to bring the mayor and Vice-President to the honorary that it cannot be Chios who will blow up the European Union-Turkey agreement on air - that we agree with the agreement. However, the agreement, as presented in May 2016, provided, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for an examination of asylum claims very quickly. The numbers you gave us make me scared. Flows twenty-fold less in Chios. In 2014 five thousand people entered, in 2015, a hundred twenty - four thousand. The streams are twenty-fold. What are you saying? That on a pan-Hellenic level you went from two to four hundred eighty and fifty-five, thirty? So you tripled the asylum when the flow doubled? That's why the system is stuck, that's why Mr. Buddour resigned. You're telling me you have eighteen people in Chios. For three thousand six hundred? How many days does everyone want to examine their asylum? To get a triple master, it will be over in 2018. You say a significant number of people will be transferred. Good. How many and what date? Say it to your dentistry. I hope that those who leave in September will be more than those who come in September, because since the European Union - Turkey agreement has been passed, the number of refugees and immigrants in Chios has doubled. You have also confirmed in your speech what I said in my communication that you will do three hot spots in Chios. I can catch you in time, because you will bring me the argument that you will close the Souda and the PUBLIC. But that was the argument behind Vial, Minister. We created the first hot spot in Chios to close the illegal camps. But Vial's full of it, they're illegal, and now what does the ministry say? To make three law-abiding ones, to reach the capacity of about three thousand - tell us, I don't know what design you have - and when the rest of you come in good, what are we going to do? We will reopen the PPC and VIAL necessarily - to God, we will not throw the deal - and we will go to five, seven, nine hot spots. It proves, Minister, that there is no plan and that the hot spots are not working nor are they now guarded, if you know. If someone goes to the hot spot now, there's no prisoner anymore. The police station's gone. You say in the announcement that you will pay compensation to the residents for the damages they have suffered. When? Is the decision made? We are talking about decisions, Mr President, because I like this, and I specifically tell you that the municipality bought and paid for Vial. He got a loan now, which was approved by the city council in September, to pay the two thirds missing. You're saying you paid for it. Wonderful! I shall submit a request, Mr President, for you to notify me of the Minister's decision with which you are paying for BIAI. As soon as you do this, and the decision has been passed on to "GENERAL", I will apologize publicly. But when you come to me today and you blame me personally, you know how modest I am, that I have nothing to do with the episodes in Chios and when I see that you have no plan and you didn't say anything about how to handle the asylums, maybe what I said this government cannot manage this crisis, it seems to me, unfortunately, to be the reality. In your dentistry, Minister - you, of course, will choose what you want to say - I would like you to refer to two things: in particular, where I am involved in any mobilisation, otherwise I would ask you to withdraw it. Secondly, in particular, these three thousand six hundred people who are in Chios today, which date will have the three-points in their hand and gone. Will they have them on October 1st, November 1st, December 1st, January 1st, 2017? We want you to give us a date in particular. You may not have any goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u70	You're clear. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u71	We are reminiscing the game of dates, while you know much better than I do - you are years on the political stage - that date can never be given, because it is a function of many factors. What can be given is the start date. The beginning has begun. You're not right about asylum. There's no twenty-five times for the asylum, because it's falling apart. It needs to be drunken. Can I tell you something? The asylum tripled. The plan is to come another four hundred EASO. Instead of yelling at the government, which is fighting for it, I imagine you are shouting when you go to the People's Party, which 70% of the leaders of the European Union belong to the People's Party. Instead of telling us that the Prime Ministers are not listening to us, we should say to you: “What exactly are you doing in the People’s Party? What exactly is your pressure on the Prime Ministers there to bring us what they promised?' instead of blaming the government that EASO did not come and what Europe promised us was not. I imagine that when you go to the People's Party, you ask for the same. There you have 70% of the Prime Ministers, 70% of the Ministers for the Interior. I am not saying that this is your responsibility. You say that is our responsibility. I think you're doing it deliberately. I want to tell you, too, that we don't load the island with new weights. The new burdens have been loaded by the situation. You cannot say that the promise we made that in eight hours' time they will leave. The deal's changed. This agreement can be the only solution you have, the only solution that our country has. The deal's changed. You're in favour of the deal. Inside the People's Party Mr Mitsotakis is in favour of the agreement. Compensation and all that has been approved. These are issues of the way the state works and you know that, too. I insist that VIAL was purchased with the assistance of the Ministry and that money has been given. I'm ending up with this. Mr. Metarakis, I recognize a lot of things you said. What is happening lately is that I do not recognize you and that I really expect to have before me Mitarakis who puts back on ten specific things and may propose another three - four and see them. Do not join Mr. Koutsantonis, who in Lesvos calls on militia groups. It's your executive. Don't join Mr. Govotsi, who's going to throw the kids out of school. It's your executive. Join this part of the urban parties, the people's parties, which defends the agreement and seek to find ways to balance the rights of residents with the rights and obligations of the agreement. In this fight, we want you with us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u72	Mr. President, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Metarakis, it's not under the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u74	It's not a dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u75	I'm sorry, but what are you asking for?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u76	On staff, let me say a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u77	What on staff? There is no staff in the timely questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u78	I want the Minister to clarify...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u79	I see. He didn't answer your first question. Okay. I mean, if you have evidence responsible for calling the people of Chios to revolution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u80	I think I mentioned it in my protology. I said that the way in which he lies, that is, when Mr Mitarakis says that three new hot spots will be created, and what will be done is that the existing structures will become better and they will go out of the city centre, this creates panic. That is what I said and that is used for these concentrations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u81	You have been revived in part, as I understand it, because it has not been said exactly that way, Minister. In any case, Mr Mitterrand receives it as an answer. Before you go, because we're both doctors and you said about Oreokastro, I'm so sorry, but why isn't the solution that would put an end to the issue of the health booklet on the children of Syria? Like all the Greeks from the day they were born, they have a health booklet - of course, they did not have this luxury - they can now come out a health book, after the tests and any vaccinations have been carried out, so that they are either ill or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u82	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u83	I'm sorry, I'm not allowed, but since we're here...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u84	You are a very experienced doctor, first of all, but also in politics. That's something that's going on. Kids are vaccinated at nearly 90%. Health booklet...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u85	Booklet, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u86	I'm sorry, Mr. President. Healthbook, as you know, in the last two years there has been. Since 1914 there has been no large number of Greeks. We'll also give these kids cards. It can't be done in these three months. But it's right what you're saying and you should...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u87	Let me tell you that many of these children are from last year in Greece, only this year they are six to seven years old and they have to go to school. So one year was lost without preparation for the health booklet. It's not just your job as Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, you have just made a mistake. These kids are here beyond March 20th.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u89	Again, it's six to seven months.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u90	Six months was on the move. I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u91	Okay. However, I keep that you're not negative to get a health booklet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u92	I retain the fact that your proposal is correct and must be implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u93	All right, all right. Thank you very much. So we move forward with the debate of the fifth under No 1210/5-9-2016 topical question of a second-cycle question by MP Kosanis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Theoktou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on protection against the seizure of retroactively paid pensions. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u94	Minister, the question concerns the incompatibility of pensions. There is an circumvention of the provisions governing the incompatibility and that is the case, because with the dose received by pensioners - because they are retrospectively full of pensions - the amount they receive exceeds EUR 1,000. So we have pensioners waiting for four, five or more months - in particular when their case concerns a parallel pension and is in any case inconvenience to the payment of their pensions - and when they receive payment of EUR 4 000 or EUR 5 000, they can also receive EUR 8 000 and EUR 10,000, then if they have to tax, insurance funds or banks because they see that the amount is more than EUR 1,000, they are going to seize the sum of more than EUR 1,000. This is very unfavourable and tragic for the retired person who is waiting anyway and has entered into a squabble of bureaucracy and waiting, but this is the way in which Article 982 of the Code of Civil Procedure, which defines the impossibility and the wage and pension and Article 31 of the CED, is violated and circumvented. With the fact that they are paid retroactively, I think that it does not lose the status of retirement or salary. That is why we are waiting for some measures to clarify this situation, especially in pensions, but also in the case of salaries paid retrospectively and it is the first dose - I repeat - that the pensioner receives, because it is a pooled sum to resolve the issue and to protect it as protected and the monthly amount paid. The fact that it is paid together does not alter its character.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, for you have been consistent in time. Here, Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, I will be brief in my reply and thank you for giving me the floor. I will be brief in answer, because what Mr Theocratic points out is a serious problem. It is a problem, because various creditors - our insured creditors who retrospectively receive pensions due to them - face the behaviour of creditors - banks mainly - who rely on Article 1498 of the Civil Code which stipulates that maintenance for the past is not due only to the day when late retirement, that is to say, from the exercise of the lawsuit, they consider that a retroactive payment of pensions cannot be made, since this is not permitted by Article 1498 of the Civil Code. However, because we agree that this should be the case, much more so because the late payment of pensions due from the past is unreasonable and because, indeed, living requirements are often covered by borrowing, we have to see how this is to be addressed. A question has been put to the Legal Council of State by the Tax Authority, by the Ministry of Finance, and we expect Parliament to deal with the problem in this regard. However, I must remind you of L.4336/2015 with which our Government has incorporated us into the inconsistency of CEDR regulations and pensions. We have therefore expressed our understanding of how to deal with the issue of ensuring the living conditions of insured persons and we are in the direction of this thinking, in order to address this issue in the most correct and rational way. We are awaiting the opinion of the Legal Council of State and we will see what else we can do on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u97	Here, Mr. Hostguard, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u98	Minister, your answer is indeed satisfactory and we are waiting for as quickly as possible to deal with it. After all, one of the top concerns of the government is the issues of everyday life that need to be dealt with in the best way possible, because it is not enough for the hard work done by the Government and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group to be seen in the big, economic indicators, but that must be effective and that must be seen in everyday life. So there are issues that need to be resolved. I also insist on this because the dignity of pensioners is insulted. They're in trouble with the bank employees who each one treats them according to their will. Another hits them brutally and offends them, saying "You owe them. So what are you waiting for? Why would you retire?’ And others say, "A of the 8,000 euros we confiscated you, we will leave you 500 euros, because we are good," that is, they sell him a reading, and such things that affect the dignity of pensioners. That is why we are anxiously awaiting the legislative resolution. After the Ministry has been involved, it should be twofold to deal with and resolve the issue, namely, pensions in addition to wages, but also multiple recipients, as I imagine it to be beneficial, that is to say, whatever debt relates to either the public or the insurance funds or to the credit institutions. We must ensure that the EUR 1 000 per month in pensions and wages is inconsistent, because that, Minister, may also have it in wages. I take this opportunity and extend the subject of the question. Many employers have difficulty paying for five to six months and then pay them retrospectively. So it is good, since it will be resolved that this issue will be resolved, that it should be double and that it should be dealt with in terms of both wages and salaries and more of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u99	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u100	Wages are protected by the same provision as pensions. I would remind you that the limit is up to EUR 1 000 and from EUR 1 000 to EUR 1,500 is half, that is, what appears, and the maximum is EUR 1,250. All of this, as you said, Mr. Theophiles, we are examining it. What we are also considering and have the opportunity to announce from this position is to inform the banks' systems directly. We are in a debate with them on the incompatibility of pensions, the limit for everyone, because the law provides for a declaration by the pension beneficiaries themselves to state from which account - from an account or a common account - that we will be seized, up to the limits allowed by the law. What we are considering and is a technical issue, which is why the banks must also help find a solution, is to declare from our own system the amount already paid and to what level is permitted, because there are many elderly people who do not have access to such systems and instruments, who have not made the statement and have been seized without these people being protected. It is a question we have seen that it is a problem and we will deal with this as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u101	Thank you for the brief. However, Minister, the banks do not expect to contribute if there is no criminal record, i.e. if you do not apply the law, there is a penalty. Otherwise, do not hope that they will contribute, but they will not contribute. Thank you for your presence, too. We enter the third under No 1256/13-9-2016 topical question by MP II Athens of Independent Greeks Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction on e-government. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vernardakis, Minister, honestly I am asking this topical question, because I think it is not just a matter of bureaucracy, corruption, a client state to attract investment and public revenue. It is mainly a step forward in democracy, in my opinion, to regain confidence in its state, which, unfortunately, for many decades has been unreliable to the citizen. I want here, Minister, to highlight the issue of e-government. There is a large part between us and parliamentarians who, because the fifty, fifty-five, sometimes may view it as something between "cheese and pear". Oh, no! I want to raise this issue together. I have read the twenty-one pages that you have given for the e-government programme with great care and great respect. And I do not want to invoke what is happening in the United States, which is a country quite advanced, which has reached the point of online governance. I mean, we're talking about organograms describing strategic goals, programs, teams, who's responsible, in other words, at any time, you can control any ministry. I forget about America, because someone can tell me 'all these years, developed country' and so on. I just want to remind you that Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia were not even countries - when the breach took place? - when we were one of the first ten to enter the EEC at that time. Estonia today, Minister, and you know it, because I think you have invoked it - has made an incredible digital leap. It's the country where in eighteen minutes, online, you're setting up a company. It's the country that no longer needs identity. Even your phone, sim, is equivalent to identity. It is the country of e-resident, that is, an entrepreneur in person doesn't need to go to shut down his jobs, with the electronic residence has done it. I say this, so that no one thinks it is a matter of very advanced countries. And today more than eight thousand people and a hundred and twenty - three countries invest in Estonia. I'm closing this parentheses. And you know what our country is in. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I also want to remind you that we have lived through the terrible spectacle that, to get your pension, you are suffering from twelve to thirty three months. I don't have to say it. I've been through it several times. I would also like to remind you of what has happened in the first instance with the votes - I am not saying, it may be inadmissible for the committees and all - which filled out the gaps of a poor candidate - and indeed it was an agreement between the two major parties at the time, before I had no complaints - who did not know the tricks, so that someone with twelve, thirteen thousand votes would reach forty thousand. I don't want to say any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u103	Finish, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u104	I come to the electronic vote. I read that you've given a seven-year schedule. I appreciate it because it's realism. However, there are also opposing views, such as at least some could - and I will expose one, one - to enter earlier. I'll explain, Minister. The issue of identities is easy and can be done quickly. In fact, it assures us not one, not two, but more than ten obligations with a simple card...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Papachristopoulos, hold on to the denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u106	Mr. President, give me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u107	I've already given you three minutes extra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, you are doing well and you are interfering, because you are older lobsters. I believe that your speech is positive, but I would ask you to give me a minute more time to finish. It's nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u109	Go on, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u110	I'm coming to the online residence. I have explained what it means 'I am making investments from a distance'. We are talking about a national system of electronic procurement, which will put an end to paperwork. We sign in seconds and save 400,000,000 a year. Electronic justice. Very important. Four years make decisions. There are currently four hundred thousand outstanding. I could tell you details about what we're doing there. For businesses, we need thirty-three documents. Mercy! What are we doing? Electronic prescribing. We are still the third country at higher pharmaceutical costs, despite the fact that a positive step has been taken towards this prescribing. Electronic invoices. Inconsistency on the market. Theft's over, the fakes are over. I listen with respect to the fact that electronic payments are soon being introduced. We're too late. It's got to be with the card. I used to see and said "for 1,5 euros"? Yeah, for 1,5 euros!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Comrade, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u112	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u113	You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u114	Not to mention the electronic smuggling systems? It's very easy with GPS and...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u115	Mr Alexiadis replied a moment ago on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u116	These are decades of conquest in all the countries of Europe. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u117	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Papachristopoulos, there is no doubt that all these points you have made are absolutely correct. Of course, they are not all my responsibilities, and that is why I will try to answer you a bit more generally, about exactly what has happened first in the country and what we can do directly to specific things. First of all, you are right that all electronic governance infrastructures and services are too low. That's a fact. Also, the fact is that the whole architecture of e-government projects has been structured in the wrong way for many years since the early 2000s. This has meant that, just to tell you a little bit, we have built some skyscrapers, who have no foundation. For example, we have anticipated a large system of information which does not communicate with each other, which is a huge problem. I don't know if there were any design errors, purposes. The fragmentation of the administration is also an administrative problem, but also a problem of financial management. However, the essence is that public information systems do not communicate with each other. And now, in recent years, you have to rebuild mechanisms, of course use the infrastructures of new technology or much younger technology, so that you can resolve these issues. This is a general problem, a very general problem. Also, a problem is who sets out the policy of e-government and digital policy. It is not just e-government in terms of information systems, it is also the digital strategy that the country should have. For this very reason, an institution was needed. It has been pointed out for many years now that there was no high-legislation central service - so to speak - in the development of national policy. We have this now and it is the General Secretariat of Digital Policy, precisely to do this, to lay down uniform standards, so that it can create the infrastructure that they will operate, so that it can say to the entire range of administration in exactly how and in what best procedures - and administrative and economic - this whole policy can be designed. So we currently have the basic tool, which, incidentally, was a heresy of the NRP, what is running now, precisely because it is well known to everyone and in Europe that the multidimensional dimension of resources, powers in the part of e-government was in Greece chaotic. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Now, what can we do right away? It is true, of course, that some things have been done. It is true that the last one, two years there have been certain things - and in the past few years, we must not underestimate anything. What we have in front of us at the moment is what you have said and I want to make it clear to you, to describe it a little, is firstly that we do have two major initiatives which will have been completed in the very near future. One is the entire administrative restructuring of the administration with new organograms, which will be digital, just so that everyone can monitor the structure, the records, the prototypes, the organic positions, the empty organic positions. In other words, we now have a digital organizational chart of the entire administration. And this is a job that will give us extremely better management of the human resources of the administration, but it passes through this concept of the digital organogram, which you described. The second serious aspect that we need to make - and I do not think there will be any objection - is that the administration must have electronic document handling for penalty, that no decision by the administration should be enforceable and legal if it does not have these two, this digital course, digital signature, and, of course, digital recording. I am passing on to one of the main issues of the public - what we are saying many times when the ministers, governments, have not received what they have received, who has received, and so on. - to a large extent also in administrative work, the fact that there are no electronic protocols or that there are when the administration wants to do so. The 2011 law of e-government said that the administration could use electronic document handling. It has never been mandatory, with the result that it will never apply, despite the fact that we have to recognise that there have been services or regions which have had very good practices in this part. And that's not just a question of transparency, it's a lot of things, it's also a matter of economics. I'm stopping here to get back into my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u119	Here, Mr Papachristopoulos, you have the floor and this time for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u120	Minister, I'm really pleased. I think we're talking the same language. The reason for this timely question is to wake up to those who need to be awakened. I really think the country will come out of the crisis faster, well the complaints about what others have not done in the past - because we have lost 15 billion over the last few years, because, why, - but they are not enough. Work here and now! You've been ruling for two years already. It is legitimate - and you said it - that you are not responsible for everything, because it concerns all ministries, it is not just yours - perhaps yours at the heart of it. Upgrade, therefore, the Secretariat. Upgrade the Minister. I think it is very important that it should be understood by those who need to be made that we can't go with pearl right now - because we are the last country to use the internet, you write it yourself, it's not that I tell you - we can't go with mule and aletri, when some others hit a button and they don't carry any files, as I see in IKA or other things. I propose here and now for electronic voting. I repeat: there have been dozens of ballots in this country in many votes - and I am not talking about violence, I am only talking about fraud - and indeed with cooperation between the two major parties at the time. I'm not talking about now, so I don't have any whims. What I want to say is that e-government is a big step in democracy. And the reason I ask this question - I do not ask you, I know you are doing a very important job - is to highlight the issue and as many Members as possible to realize that we will get out of the crisis more easily. Estonia is the tangible example. A nonexistent country twenty-five years ago. Thank you. I was in three minutes, okay, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u121	Less, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u122	Mr Colleague, thank you for the timely question. It is a duty, not only for you, but for any Member, when asking a question, to have a substantial debate, in my view. That's why I think we're on the same wavelength. Mr. Comrade, I agree. I have nothing to add. It is a fact that the country must speed up. The General Secretariat of Digital Policy has currently taken over the central role of designing all this country's digital strategy and e-government infrastructure. We will obviously, as a ministry, support this policy. And, of course, we are 'enforcing' in some way practices which will bring us into another situation. We have huge problems in the courts, health, social security. All you say is a fact. However, there are some things that we should not underestimate. By the end of the year we will have achieved a central interoperability in the Greek public, i.e., in the register, in the registry office, in the "TAXIS" and in the police Identities. Thus, we will have the very large databases of the Greek state, the central bases, in a interoperability, which will allow us to move on to what we call the "Citizen Card", "Citizen's Registrant". This will be able from there on to speed up such procedures. Many smaller things have been done, such as the own-initiative search from public documents through the electronic interface it has. It has also been upgraded or we are trying to upgrade, because there are technical problems. One dimension is the technical part, which we need to keep in mind. We are not Estonia, unfortunately. But we must bear in mind that Estonia has started from scratch very recently, namely with new technological infrastructures. And it is a very small country, in which direct public service users are not more than a million. Of course, it is an example of good and good management of these policies. I think that from the end of the year onwards we will have to show concrete, tangible acts of great progress in the country in the part of e-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Bernardakis. And because I know Mr. Papachristopoulos, in January 2017 he will put a question again. Let's see where you're going to be with the commitments you made for the end of the year. We are finishing today's debate with the second with number 4117/21-32016 question by the MP Iraklios of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the exclusion from the new programme of public works of municipalities and the unemployed from whole regions. Mr Kegeroglou will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Urania Antonopoulou. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. A key element in all policies is the perception of things and effectiveness. And associated with the previous one, to say that when e-voking from the previous government was introduced, SYRIZA then spoke about technocraticism. And it is a good thing that the government partner today raises this issue and Mr Vernardakis did not reply in the same way, but he left it open. So it is a perception of things and I believe that if we change attitudes and perceptions we can achieve many things. However, I should like to say that through public works, in a small program that worked four computer children at the Region's Communications and Transport Directorate of Crete, the entire licence file, traffic licences and, more generally, the archive of the Directorate of Communications and Transport was digitised and is an achievement at very low cost, through the public-benefited work, which is also the subject of our question. I would like to say that with the government we have a fundamental difference in terms of unemployment in general. We believe and believe that only the relaunching of the economy, growth and, of course, policies which have to do with linking growth to employment, such as the employment clause, can give a definitive solution to unemployment. Of course, the programmes have at times contributed too much to the recovery of unemployment and to the problem of particular groups, such as the long-term unemployed or people who are members of families who have no workers. The programmes therefore play an important role, but they are not the most important ones. I would therefore like to say that the government has promised too much in connection with the programmes. Of course, I believe that it has actually landed today, but in addition to the landing in fact it has a delay, which I believe is generally due to the implementation of the NRP and the funds of the European Social Fund, which it includes. In any case, we have the social benefits programme declared for seventeen municipalities, and I think it has been put into operation. We have the promise that he will come for thirty-four other municipalities and a second promise that he will come for all the remaining two hundred seventy-four. I would like the Minister to explain this very long delay and to give us the information today on how she considers that all these programmes will be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u125	You were clear. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Kegeroglu, for the question, even though I will disagree radically with the first remarks you have made. I do not think there is anyone in this government, anyone thinking about people, who believes that the huge problem of unemployment that we inherited, a million two hundred and fifty thousand unemployed, with 75% of the longterm unemployed - that is what we took in January 2015 - will solve the supportive actions for the unemployed. No one says that. It's registered. I have often said that unemployment will be solved by the development of the economy. In the intervening period, however, we support the private sector and particularly small and medium-sized enterprises with programmes supporting wage and non-wage costs, in order to facilitate recruitment in the private sector. We are now making targeted training so that after the practice, the unemployed will be recruited and the unemployed will have a future. There was no system of diagnosing the needs of the labour market, as you know, Mr Kegeroglu. We have now completed all the programmes, because we have streamlined resources, go to sectors of the economy and professions, which have demanded that they be recruited. Learning something and then having a result of what we learned, not doing horizontal training. The third major intervention we have, apart from the two things I have said, is social work. Look, when I took up my duties, in 2014 I found that an evaluation survey had been commissioned to IOBE, by your Ministry, on your own Ministry. The results achieved by IOBE, I imagine you would have seen them, said that the work programmes did not catch the target groups, were not the long-term unemployed who joined most of them, so they were not the lowest incomes that they joined, and also after the completion of the programmes they had no improvement in human resources, the people who joined there, so they had no future. So we were forced to redesign. And today, as you know, although these problems were well known to the European Commission and we have been told 'no more beneficial work', we have not only managed to keep the programme alive, but have now been for eight months. Because you mentioned in particular what we are doing, as regards the question which I have answered many times in this House and we have received press releases, communications, etc., to tell you where we are today. As far as the seventeen municipalities are concerned, the procedures have been completed and recruitment is immediate. They start tomorrow. As far as the thirty-four municipalities are concerned, we are at that stage where the unemployed are now enrolled, i.e. the OAED platform opens up to the unemployed to register, since we have done the pre-treatment with the municipalities and have recorded the projects to which they will be integrated. As far as the two hundred and seventy-four municipalities are concerned, today the letter has left the CEDE and the municipalities we have collaborated with horizontally, enter the electronic platform that we have for the first time done, where the municipalities now electronically record what projects they are doing, what the positions they want to recruit through the eight-month public works. So the process for all two hundred and seventy-four has been completed. The resources are real and have been registered. We know exactly where the funding comes from. There is a section of the regular budget, because with all the forward works that had come out, Attica and the South Aegean now had zero! - the possibility of being financed by the European Social Fund. That is why we have had to consult so that we can set it up. We're done. I would like to end by saying that the unemployed now, who are enrolled in these programmes, beyond the work they offer as a benefit to the municipalities, with results that we monitor and control them in cooperation with the International Labour Organisation, every fifth day they go to upgrade formal qualifications. The first actions we have are at three levels: training, technology and IT. Even a citizen in order to be able to use the electronic services we are going to give him, should have the ability to enter the internet and be able to register, see and ask. We take this into account, so that the programmes we are making, the socially beneficial work, do not have the negative results, I say, which have had previous generations of socially beneficial work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u127	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, I have to say that the Ministry of Communications and Press Releases, which it invoked, is doing well. Efficacy in the implementation of the programmes is suffering. I should like to inform you that, in order to obtain approval for the new generation of public works programmes, the results of the public works programmes were presented to our interlocutors and, in particular, the responsible Directorate-General of the European Commission, the achievements - within or outside the importing sector - of the positive results of the programme of social work carried out beforehand. Therefore, any attempt to depreciate the previous programme which needed improvement - and improvements have been made that we have noted and voted here in the House - is not a good thing on the part of the Minister. I now come to the issue of unemployment rates, which are indeed scary, continue to be. As you remember, the overall unemployment rate had reached about 28%. This percentage from 2013 onwards began to have a downward trend and reached up to 25%, 24.5%, depending on which month the measurement took place and continued in one and a half years to have a fall of about 1.5% or maybe more or less. We'll see it in October when the seasonal employment is over. Whilst unemployment seems to have a downward trend, the quality figures are dramatic. I will say that the long-term unemployed, while in July 2013 in total eighty-six hundred nine thousand looking for work - because they are also some who are not looking for work, but are enrolled in the OAED to look as unemployed - we had three hundred eighty-eight thousand long-term unemployed, in July 2016, the previous month, this figure was ejected to four hundred thousand. If we do another analysis of those employed during the relevant period or those who have found work, we will see that they have mostly found parttime work. These two qualitative elements should be very concerned about us, because while unemployment seems quantifiable, we have been dramatized. I think it is the Ministry's view, but I would point it out that we are aware of it. I want to say the following to what the Minister said: according to the evidence provided to me by the Ministry of Economy, there seems to be a funding for all seventeen municipalities for all thirty-four. It is not clear that there is for the two hundred and seventy-four municipalities. The funding, of course, is divided into two sections. On the one hand, work and training. Training, which in total - if I have done well - is around EUR 40 million, seems to be not about workers. Whilst, in other words, they will be called upon to work at the expense of working time - without the 'weights' always being negative - economics are at the expense of the wages they receive. It does not appear that the workers who are to be trained will receive money for training, from about 40 million, and that is a question to the Minister and see if they clarify it. The second element is that, while there are ESF resources - the insured, either with the forward utilisation or from 2014-2020 - 50 million of the budget have not been registered or registered, I would like to know about it. This is very important, because I heard the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki and promised it would be one of the 246 million. The programme cannot be implemented unless it is registered. When will he collect the 246 million to put them on? I conclude by asking whether the public service programme concerns specific projects proposed by the municipalities. The municipalities therefore propose projects that are directly efficient, with the specialties of builders, craftsmen, olive-chromatists, road cleaners, grass decorators, these specialties. The programme also provides for the unemployed to be up to a certain age to be eligible for funding - they cannot be independent - and, of course, they must be trained in IT. Now, to draw up the builders, the oil chromatographs, the weeds and the launderers in information technology to receive the reward from training - and if they receive it - it is a matter. I would like clarification on this to see whether this is the reason why the programme has gone back and it is not a mere inertia of the Ministry, because, Minister, we have come to the government for two years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u129	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u130	You can no longer invoke the weaknesses of the former system. I was not responsible for the OAED and the unemployment programmes. He was another colleague. However, I must say no more invoking the weaknesses of the previous ones. Now you will talk about your own weaknesses, twenty-one months that you have the wheel of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u131	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. I am not surprised by your speech, Mr Kegeroglu, this is not the first time. You're talking about weaknesses, you use a language, which communicates to create false images, of course, because in all the issues you mentioned there's an answer, there's our publications, the invitations themselves describe the program and yet you insist that you continue, risk and say we don't do so many months or so. Look, the easy way to answer is to say that you got the training money, how much the unemployed get, where we're gonna get the money. You made them a bit over there, and you started to give a reason for how all this is going to happen. I'll tell you how they're going to be. Beneficiaries are normally paid exactly the minimum wage, as they must be paid. On the fifth day they get permission from work. To have a system we pay to go and learn five things, that is pathetic and it does not exist at European level. We are doing this and some other countries. In other words, we are using the training on a voluntary basis. We're giving them an allowance. Do you want us to go on with this? In this training there is no allowance and we tell the unemployed: you have the option. Do you want to know the basic principles of entrepreneurship so you and your family don't get involved in opening a business today and tomorrow close? Come and watch informational seminars. Are you interested in the area of social entrepreneurship? Special seminars. Don't you know how to use a computer and how to get online to sign up to the OAED? Come and know. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I would like us to have a lot of time, Mr Kegeroglu, to discuss this. As you know when the municipalities hire, right next to the specialty there is a simulation. So we're gonna send the guy who knows how to paint, go do training to paint? Is that what you're suggesting? So that's why we say it was irrational the way...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u133	I don't think that's what he proposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u134	Let me finish. So his idea that one man is working on a job and on this job we have to draw him up does not arise. This isn't the way to do it. The OAED, as the individual action plan records, must tell us which of the unemployed has to go to training and who does not need training. For example, someone's going to work in a gas station. If he knows how to use Excel while the other one doesn't know, the company hires him easier. That is what the diagnosis of labour market needs tells us. ICTs are essential to all professions currently in existence. As far as the resources are concerned, you're still in trouble with some numbers. I would like to point out to the citizens who are likely to be watching us at the moment that, as far as funding is concerned, there is no risk. It is quite clear where the money comes from and when they will be assigned. So we have no problem with that. I want to close with an observation. As far as long-term unemployment is concerned, it should be understood to anyone, to a small child, that when we have a five-year-old, six-year-old high unemployment for our country, whoever enters and is unemployed today, if he has not found jobs after twelve months is going to the long-term unemployed. So the volume and transition from short-term unemployment to long-term unemployment is a problem. But I note that when we came as government, the long-term unemployed were around nine hundred thousand. Today, how many are there? We're talking about early 2015 to this day. Look at it, Mr. Kegeroglu, and you'll see that the number has fallen. Also, I would point out that ELSTAT yesterday told us that not only did the unemployment rate fall, but that we have from January 2015 to today plus two thousand people in employment. That is, two thousand more people have more jobs today than we had in 2019. That's what I testify for. And if we do our work well or not the numbers, but society tells us on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u135	I, Mr President, gave an opportunity to blame the lack of funding!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u136	Okay, that's not the answer. The topical and urgent debate is closed. I should like to thank my colleague Mr Theonas for his company and remember that unemployment in 2009 was 7.34%. Remember that. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-16-S1-commons.u137	With the consent of the House at 12.05 p.m. the sitting is closed for Monday, 19 September 2016 at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
