ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate on the principle, articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: a) "Following the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part, with its unaffected Annexes 1 to 4, Appendices, Protocols, Notes and the EU unilateral Declaration. on Article 96 of the Agreement’ and (b) ‘Repeal of the Comprehensive Agreement — Framework Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part, with the declarations made therein’. The drafts were adopted in the Standing Committee by a majority. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, only those who object to the ratification of these agreements. However, because three amendments have been tabled, which have been distributed to you, Nos 429/3, 430/4 and 431/5, I would firstly propose that Mr Christos Papapas be put at the start of the two agreements by the People's Association - Golden Dawn and Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos from the JRC, who have either declared 'PAS' or voted against the standing committee, as well as the Minister responsible for five minutes. I then propose that the three ministerial amendments be discussed together and that the Parliamentary Representatives, the rapporteurs, the Special Rapporteurs and the Ministers responsible, be given the floor for five minutes each. For the parliamentary groups appointed by different parliamentary representatives, rapporteurs or special speakers, the proposal is to speak for three minutes each.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u2	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u3	Madam President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u4	Wait a minute. That is the proposal we are tabling for today's debate. Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u5	Madam President, there has been a tradition of this parliamentary term that the government has brought in vain towards ratifying contracts for amendments to debate. This had happened once in the IE period, in a bill that I had the honour of supporting as government minister. What this House has chosen at the time was that the list of speakers has been opened, Madam President. To speak to the parties' rapporteurs on the proposed amendments, to open up the registration system and to register those colleagues who wish. The Rules of Procedure provide for a special ratification procedure, but only for ratification and not for matters of more general interest. So it cannot be that when the government chooses to bring an amendment to a general bill, the Members of Parliament have the right to speak, but when the government chooses to bring the amendments to sanctions, then the Members will not have the right to speak. This is a clear violation of the spirit of the Rules of Procedure and of the Constitution. I therefore propose, Madam President, that the rapporteurs speak, of course, - as you have said - to speak, but during the prototypes of the rapporteurs, to open up the system and to sign up to Members, as the Rules of Procedure provide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Madam President. You have done very well and carried the procedure followed by the House, since the special procedure has been permanently circumvented for summary and specific legislative procedures. I think that in your introduction you referred to specific articles. This has been circumvented. We are going through all the amendments we want with these procedures. Extremely exceptional and under the great protests of the Opposition, in previous years this has only been done three to four times. Now it's happening all the time. I would like to express two thoughts: the first is that all this practice with what the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman said on Friday at the orgy of the amendments, including the one on the coastline, where with the smuggling of SYRIZA non-Attica MPs, has proposed it and has accepted it by Mr Philis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u8	What did I say Friday, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u9	When we put it down, we were told: But you don't care about the substance? Do you care about this guy? And Parliament's Rules of Procedure are, it's rules of procedure. And why did it become a regulation? Because it's a repetitive substance that's become a guy. To respect certain things. So I agree with Mr Metarakis. You need to open a list. And with regard to the time you have given me, I agree with you. We don't need any more time. I would like to ask you to do that, because this House is excluded from a process which is on the table and which concerns provisions - right or wrong, we will see that - but which must be discussed. Finally, Madam President, you mentioned the ratification of the two agreements by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I wonder whether these amendments will lead to legislative initiative. You're going to have to tell us that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u10	He's here. Mr Carras, Mr Karathanasopoulos, Mr Papapas, Mrs Vaki and Mr Dannelis have been asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u11	I'll be very brief. I agree with my previous colleagues. I would just add this: I see that one of the amendments is an autonomous Road Terminal Service in charge of the Ministry of Transport and Network Infrastructure. In other words, it is an organisational amendment to a public service which requires a special law under the Constitution and a debate will be required in both committees and in plenary during the ordinary common procedure. And why am I saying that? If we catch the provisions and take them up from Article 70 to Article 75, Madam President, I am not talking about the Rules of Procedure anymore, I have left the Rules of Procedure - we will see that they have stricter formality in discussing amendments to create public services. In that sense - I do not know whether this amendment is correct or wrong - we feel that we have a new breach. I have also spoken at previous meetings on serial violations. We are saying that we will vote against all amendments, which violate the Constitution and standard.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u12	Mr Carras, you can develop this when the ministers are too, because it is a matter of substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u13	Madam President, this is a preliminary question, in our view.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u14	Yes, however, you should have the response of the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u15	The Ministers must also come, but I would ask the Minister for the Interior to come. A public service may not be established without the presence of the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Madam President. I'm not even going to get into the actual way of organising the debate. I'm going to get to the standard, because here we have a regular government tactic. It shall not exceptionally be possible for an exceptional event or exceptional event. Of course, perhaps - and Mr Stathakis should explain it to us - one amendment should concern an exceptional case. The rest of the two have nothing extraordinary, so we must withdraw and not even discuss how the debate will be organised here on the amendments. For it is a procedure which has made a 'blue paper' as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Of course, if we accept such a procedure, in the next few years we will have a flood of such amendments that we will not be able to address the specific issues they raise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u18	Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u19	Madam President, the repetitive type always keeps the substance. We are therefore against the debate on the amendments. You have called it a rope to put into unrelated bills - good time in two simple sanctions, where there is the known procedure - amendments. From there on, as far as Mr Mitaraki is concerned, I have listened with caution to Mr Mitarakis, who has agreed to the debate but I have listened with caution - because of party origin, perhaps - to his views. However, I would like to say, Mr Mitarakis, that you are forgetting - you have a short memory - your disgrace - and let me say it - of the Samara Government, which, like the SYRIZA Government, had done a washing machine for the Greek Parliament with various legislations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u20	Not like that, though!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u21	Don't argue, Mr. Loverdos! That's how it was! Let's remember ERT, let's remember a bunch of bills that had come. How was the House closed down? We're living a parliamentary dictatorship, we know it. Sometimes it doesn't matter what we say here. We often say that since they have the majority, 'have the knife, they have the melon'. He does what executive power wants through legislative power, through parliament, and parliamentarians do not have their own view, but he is in a party'mandri'. A hundred and fifty-three? One hundred and fifty-three! Should the Greek people be slaughtered? One hundred and fifty three, to slaughter the Greek people! I would therefore like to say that if the amendments are finally discussed, we are negative as far as the two amendments are concerned, which could go into a bill and be discussed in accordance with the established rules. But there is also the amendment - I would say 'anguish of the drop' - of the Ministry of Finance which provides for the extension of a month longer until the loan sharks take the houses of the Greeks, thus increasing the agony of the Greek people who have lost their national sovereignty and independence on the one hand and, on the other, until 20 May, according to the new agreement which comes, they will also lose their homes. Do you want me to continue, Madam President? Will the procedure continue, as you suggested? Are we going to vote? How do you want it to happen? To finish, say about Iraq and Iran.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u22	The speakers are not finished, Mr Pappa. Sit down, we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u24	Here, Mrs. Vakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u25	I would agree with my fellow Members that it is indeed a bad legislative practice to introduce amendments. But I do not understand all this hypocrisy from the Opposition. Acting as amazed for that? Five hundred amendments you brought to every bill. But that's not the time. As conditions are not normal, we do not live in an orderly, normal - period of time - but sometimes - I agree that it is bad legislative practice and should be limited - it is necessary. For example, with regard to this amendment, which I have been aware of now, that the period of exemption from the sale to companies for the transfer of claims from non-performing loans is extended, since a regulatory framework has not yet been established, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that on 15 May it is over. They should be saved. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u26	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u27	Good. So what I am proposing is that the ministers should come for the other amendments, support them and, of course, open a list of speakers. I agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u28	May I suggest anything to the government? May I, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u29	Say, Mr. Voridis. But let us not eat the time in it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u30	Mr Minister, in order to facilitate the process a little, please listen: the loan amendment has nothing to do with it. We all agree that there is urgent. EUROCONTROL is also a very important issue and must go ahead and it is urgent because money is being lost. Now, with regard to the other amendment, which introduces an independent service to the electronic toll issue, you can discuss it in a normal procedure - let us not now set up the emergency service - and if you do so, you will see how quickly the procedure will go. So, now, withdraw the amendment, which introduces the special service to the Sub-Committee on Electronic Tolls, because there is no need for a service to be set up as a matter of urgency now. Bring in the normal one and the procedure will proceed without a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Danellis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u32	Madam President, we strongly protest because this methodology has now become a rule. And because my fellow Members agree that this is downgrading Parliament, I think that the government could have avoided it from now on. I should also like to point out that what has happened badly in the past does not mean that we are being relieved of our responsibilities today. On the substance of the matter now, for the monthly extension of the protection of red loans, we agree that it is urgent, even though it could have been anticipated - we did not know now - in a previous bill with the normal procedure. With EUROCONTROL, too, we do not fundamentally disagree, because a mistake has indeed to be rectified, which is now happening. However, Mr Spirtzi's third amendment is an autonomous bill, which has serious issues. We may agree, but so we cannot agree. I would therefore ask that this amendment, which in no way justifies the urgency of the matter, should be withdrawn and come under the normal procedure, even next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u33	I think that from all the positions, because we are dealing with the amendments tabled by Mr Spirtzi, who is not here, we will be waiting when he comes to argue, so we shall also close this issue. I propose that, so that the debate does not continue, and that neither do I wish to argue or make setbacks - we have the documents here, so that anyone who wants to see how many amendments have been made every period - nor do we want to say that this will take place, that we protest counter-population, and that we proceed with sanctions, that Mr Pope begins with placing on the two conventions - agreements so that we can have after all the year - and that Mr Spirtzis will also be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u34	To open the list after that. The majority of this House and the government have agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u35	I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u36	After the government has agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Metarakis, the government has not agreed. The parliamentary representative agreed that it was right to open a list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u38	If the amendments are withdrawn, it does not have to be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u39	If it is just Mr Stathakis' amendment, I do not understand why this should be done at the expense of the next agenda, which is several questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u40	I may want to speak as a Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u41	That's not all today. We will therefore discuss it in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u42	But we are now opening the debate on the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u43	Let's do the sanctions now...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u44	Excuse me, it's a bill!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u45	Mr Metarakis, the sanctions are binding on the procedure provided for in Article 108. They'll talk two who disagree. We will continue as soon as the two parties' representatives who disagree on the agreements are finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u46	If the amendments are withdrawn, there is no reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u47	The amendments will not be withdrawn!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Pappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u49	Madam President, we will be placed as a Golden Dawn at first in the ratification with Iraq. This agreement is the conclusion of earlier 2011 and 2012 agreements. It is known that with this agreement we are called upon to ratify, the contractual relations between the European Union and Iraq are strengthened in respect of industry, energy, technology, health, food, education, etc. Of course, the amendments we are discussing here every time are beneficial. These are a number of formal sanctions and the question is what our country will get from them, what benefit it will have from them. I should like to point out here, Madam President, that the European Union is a major donor of aid to Iraq since the 2003 war, and then, of course, based on the logic of NATO and the dictatorship of the European Union and of the taco-glutes that it says 'Firstly I create a humanitarian disaster, first I level you, I bomb you and then I bring you capitalist development and I create a crazy food for my beloved multinationals'. For our part, as a country, as Greece, we have developed in a number of areas of relations with Iraq, in terms of energy, construction, etc. So Iraq, beyond Greece, has developed very good relations with Russia, as I said in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, not at foreign policy level because it is well known, Minister, that foreign policy creates economic interests, that basically foreign policy is a war with other instruments. I would like to say, however, that on a moral level, the Russian people will never forget the crime and destruction of the imperialist US, which they brought to Iraq, with the one million dead in the Desert Storm. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to say that only the fact that Iraq is an enemy of the Turks and is on an axis of cooperation with Russia and Syria - a combination from which some benefits will possibly be gained by our country - leads us to vote'residents'. As far as the agreement with Vietnam is concerned, first of all, I would like to say something in detail. Our position has nothing to do with the Vietnamese people who struggled heroically, self-determination and humiliated the imperialism of the United States. Unfortunately for Vietnam, it is already on the orbit of the United States, although it is a communist country, following the countries of former socialism, the countries of former Eastern Europe, as Cuba recently follows. It is the new generation we are talking about, the 'American Communists'. For Vietnam, then, there has been an understanding of cooperation with the European Union since October 1996 and 2007. As I said in Iraq, the issue is of benefit. Are we going to benefit from something? I don't think we're gonna benefit. Here we have a comprehensive framework agreement covering all areas and we are talking about relations with a country that remains the last communist country in the world. It is a country where all activities are controlled by the Communist Party and where even foreign investors, who are given the opportunity to develop certain units, have a commissioner who controls their activity, not by the government, but by the Communist Party. If it were from the government, it might well be, so that it is not a clear vine, as is our country to foreign investors. We are therefore talking about a country where its government does not allow the people the right to strike and where corruption lives and reigns much more in Hanoi than in Saigon. We are talking about a country where freedom of information is non-existent, a country whose population in the year 2016 presents serious health problems, a country which has been denounced of human rights violations. In practice, due to all these problems, they will move and move towards Europe 'illegal' immigrants. But even if they are not illegal, even if they are legal, these immigrants will be used as a cheap workforce in the factories of Europe, with the known impact on European relations and the economy of Europe, as well as on every country. Our familiar slogan on the Golden Dawn is: "Every foreign worker a Greek unemployed". With these considerations, we are voting against the ratification of the convention with Vietnam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Of course I will not be tempted to respond to the market uncommunism of the Golden Dawn. I will simply say that it reiterates the arguments of the most black and more dangerous circles in the United States, NATO and the European Union. I am going to stand up to the essence of the two sanctions conventions that we are discussing. First of all, the partnership and cooperation agreements signed by the European Union are nothing more than a standardised form of agreements concluded by the European Union with other economies, particularly with less developed countries. This is also the first stage in the preparation of third country markets for the penetration of Euro-Union monopolies. The second phase of this penetration, and after the initial partnership agreement has gone ahead, are free trade agreements which, in essence, completely liberalise the market in third countries, abolishing all kinds of administrative obstacles, establishing fast-track procedures for investment and, in general, lifting all kinds of obstacles to the access of monopolistic groups to the market of third countries. The 'cheese' to make this extortion progress is nothing more than the accession of the countries concerned to the so-called generalized system of preferences which reduces the export duties of the countries concerned to the European Union, mainly to agricultural products or raw materials, which are processed by the processing industries of the countries of the European Union. However, in exchange for this preferential tariff system and the price is very heavy for these countries, and for those countries, as well as for them, any restriction and protective measures for the European Union's industrial products and services are required at all times. On the substance, the only winners of these agreements are the large multinationals of the European Union who, free of any control and any protective measures, are wildly exploiting the wealthy potential of these countries, the raw materials and the labour force. In other words, it is a question of linguist agreements and of disequilibrium agreements which are for the benefit of the great capital and at the expense of the working class and of the poor people's members. Two more aspects which make such agreements even more burdensome are, firstly, the so-called human rights clause put forward by the European Union, which acts as a mechanism for ruthless blackmails and internal interventions and pressures from the European Union to these countries, and secondly, it is the so-called anti-terrorist cooperation, with all the consequences that this cooperation has for the benefit of the imperialist policy of the European Union and the Member States, of supporting the various geostrategic interests in the control of energy sources and roads. The case of Iraq is particularly characteristic, where it is a challenge to claim that the Iraqi society, itself, will be democratised through these agreements. By who? Of those who are destroying, bombing, committing imperialist wars, the European Union and the Americans. It is for this reason that this kind of agreement with Iraq and the Communist Party of Greece is challenging, and we voted against it in the European Parliament and the agreement with Vietnam, because it is a lion agreement against the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, and much more when it is through these agreements that there is a terrible pressure to restructure these economies and, in particular, Vietnam in the direction of the market economy, that is to say, towards the total asymmetrical action of the big capital and the intensity of the exploitation. For this very reason, Madam President, the JRC is voting against both agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Minister Xydakis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, it is clear that we must add to the ratification of the agreement that 'and other provisions' are added because of the amendments, at least those which go through the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u54	Give it in writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u55	Of course, I'll deliver it later. As far as ratification of the agreements is concerned, there was an extensive debate in the committee the other day. I still do not fully understand the arguments put forward by both the JRC and the Golden Dawn concerning certain agreements, even if we accept that all this economic diplomacy serves in many companies, some interests. I think that even with the most perplexed theory of trickle-down effect, some benefits will go to the people. Will we impose our own ideological outreach and obsessed with the Vietnamese people of ninety-two million and the government's dominance to negotiate a more favourable tariff regime with the Western world or to promote its exports or to promote its economy? I do not understand how we cannot mean for the infamous people of Iraq and its devastated state and the developing state of Vietnam, after the sufferings that have passed, how we ourselves do not allow them to decide with all the dominance they have - and in Vietnam there is sovereignty - to associate themselves with, to join the international framework, what they are, not to go to heaven, to what is on earth in order to help their peoples. It is improper hypocrisy to ban the right to these sovereign peoples because of our ideological over-interpretations, with all the power they have to decide on their future. I think a generosity must exist after every great war. The crisis, the course of history, showed that after the Treaty of Versailles and pressures and subjection, something worse came. After World War II, last year’s lessons showed that you do not completely neutralize the opponent, you do not equal him, but you allow him a margin to raise a head. The Marshall Plan helped Europe, with all the pursuits of political hegemony that the United States had at that time. Fifty years have passed, we can study it. We also have the happy occasion for Mr Stathakis to be a special scholar of this post-war period. There are both negatives and positives. But here, we are representatives of the Greek people and, as solidaritys and fellow believers, peoples who are trying to stand on their feet or move on, I think we should vote in favour of this ratification, even though it is little for the benefits of the peoples of Vietnam and Iraq. I therefore call on my fellow Members to vote against consciously and logically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u56	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u57	Madam President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u58	What is it, Mr Pappa, the staff? I didn't hear any references to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u59	The Minister answered me and I want to answer him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u60	There's no staff. I didn't mention any names and no decays.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u61	I don't think it's personal times now. Leave it better, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u62	Give me the floor for a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u63	No, you don't have to, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u64	Madam President, I want to say something...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u65	To the Minister, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u66	The Minister answered me and I want to answer him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u67	I don't think so. Leave it better.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u68	Don't be...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u69	I'm not, but I don't think there's anything to say. It was very generally what was said and...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u70	Give me a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u71	Okay. Here, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much. Minister, with all due respect I would like to say to you - because you said that you saw hypocrisy in placing the Golden Dawn - that we are not hypocrites or delusional about our ideology and our position. I would also like to say to you that as far as the Vietnamese people are concerned, it is a delightful people after the war, but don't forget that the Greeks are, at the moment, seated for the sake of your own political and government, that is, the Left and the Right, with the memorials you have loaded on him and with the economic possession of the dictatorship of the European Union. As regards the Marshall Plan and post-war Europe, I am very surprised that a left-wing government favours the Marshall Plan, namely the creation of the new economic post-war dictatorship in Greece, since most of them were financial donations with the well-known "Liberties", the Marshall Plans, etc. I would like you to think about the names of hypocrites, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u73	As both Ministers are present now, we can start the debate on the amendments. Mr Spirtzi, starting with the amendments to which there are objections, a question has been raised as to whether it is urgent that the two amendments be tabled and there are proposals, one of which is that they should not be debated at all and the other should be discussed in accordance with the normal procedure, i.e. that there should be a list of speakers. Please, can you argue about these two amendments? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u75	Mr Minister, there are objections only to the service amendment. No objections have been raised to EUROCONTROL.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u76	Good. So, let us say about EUROCONTROL that here is a pay for the substance of programmes taken by the employees of the PSC. They're not paid from our country. They are paid by EUROCONTROL. By mistake, these fees had been cut.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u77	They'll be lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u78	And they'll be lost from the country. There is therefore no reason to have a wall on the employees of the PSC, who are also fighting a great battle to keep the service alive, so that we do not have the delays that had been foreseen. The past period was really too small, with the efforts made by the workers there. The second provision is an arrangement whereby we have two - three very large areas to deal with issues which are afflicting the country. The first, as you know - we have passed it in a previous draft law - is that we have an obligation from the Community directive to operate the 'Electronic Register of European Toll Service Providers'. This must be entrusted to an agency to do so. But there are other shortcomings, such as the lack of the National Roadside Fund. There is no service to control the transport burdens. There's no service to control tolls. There is no service to see the way and the specifications, so that we can have a unification of the electronic systems of motorways, whether they be public or concessions. It is therefore entrusted to this service that we are now establishing. We're not getting any new employees. The ones that the Greek State and the Ministry have are about to move. After all, those who were made redundant from the National Roads Fund were re-entered by the current government before the elections. The third thing we want to do is finally to stop what exists only in our country from European countries, forward tolls. We are therefore establishing everywhere that there are only proportional tolls.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u79	Electronics.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u80	Electronic analogue tolls. Since the law was passed and then there are no frontal tolls on the motorways, where they have not been installed. This is for public highways. It's our commitment. For concessions, it has also been in the individual agreements we have made in recent months that, until the completion of the projects, concessionaires are obliged to carry out studies in order for them to install electronic tolls in the T2 period as well, proportionately. That's what someone needs to coordinate, and someone to check it out. You also know very well that we are paying millions to the maintenance of the side road network, which used heavy vehicles, trucks that had to go from the motorways. These are not the roads to the specifications of large, heavy cars. That is where we are essentially forbidden to use them. If you go a bit outside Athens at St. Stephanos' node, you'll see a line of four kilometers of foreign dulls. And if that cost were to be saved from the cost of the transport project, we would say 'all right'. But we're not getting away with it, it's being charged by the citizen. The same is done in Egnatia, the same is done in the Corinth - Patras network throughout Greece. So what we're doing is: Firstly, we should put a burger at all the entrances of the country that will have business cars and whoever wants to pay the toll at the beginning, at the entrance of the country, so that the big trucks that come for the transport project do not pass through our country, and thank us, and then pay us hundreds of millions of millions to maintenance. The second is the maintenance of the side network to do only for the local communities and for the citizens, who must have it to use if they do not want to use the mainstream network. It's not about heavy trucks and transport work. Of course, in order not to create any other kind of turmoil, we also anticipate exceptions to the paradoxes for certain large and heavy vehicles, such as if there is someone's seat there, if there is a project and it does, if a KETEL is to go to a settlement it passes through there, if it has to move into that space on the side roads, it will. Remember what had happened in the ninety kilometer - which we have eaten and the mud of the bear for that - where in three settlements for people to go to their fields they had to pay tolls because the side road had not been completed! So we come to cover these with this amendment. I think it is in a very positive direction. Everybody's involved. And I see no reason why there should not be any further objections. One more thing I would like to say, Madam President, is that when we took over, because public tolls have been allocated to concessionaires outside Athens, there was an electronic system in the past, from the National Road Fund, which controlled both the transport burden and the toll. This system we found closed, incomplete, and ready to dismantle. So there cannot be a public body that controls both concessionaires and public motorways, so that we do not notice unfair situations that had been presented before, on tolls and on the National Road Fund, but also have a check, even for study reasons and data. I am talking about an electronic system for all motorways that will monitor traffic and motorway revenue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u81	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u82	Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u83	It did not explain to us the urgency of the amendment. He told us about the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u84	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u85	Apparently, that's what he said. You're judging.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u86	We have asked and asked to explain to us the urgency of the amendments, not the contents, of the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u87	You're judging.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u88	What's the matter with the character?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u89	Let me give you a reply. The urgency of this is to start with our commitment to comply with Directive 52/2004 and Directive 750/2009. That's the first. Secondly, the urgency has to do with making hundreds of millions of euros to support the roadside, in the summer when we have an increase in traffic accidents, so it is now necessary to ban heavy vehicles from the side road, before we mourn again this summer hundreds of victims because some people do not want to pay - professionals, who have to pay for it, are the first to pay tolls - and Egnatia and concessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u90	Madam President, I would like to point out something to the Minister regarding the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u91	Aren't we gonna hear Mr. Stathakis talk next?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u92	It's not about Mr. Stathakis. I only ask for the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u93	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u94	I would like you to understand the problem that this Parliament has now. We have agreed on the urgent procedure that is being followed, which is not urgent, is an irregular procedure, because we are tabling amendments to a sanction. I am not saying that it has not been done, but it is something that the Bureau, first of all, is disturbing and the parliamentary majority is disturbing. It's bothering us, we don't want to do that unless there's a very serious reason. We have accepted that there is a very serious reason for the issue of Mr Stathakis' amendment with the loans. We accept that there is a good reason for the question of EUROCONTROL because it is something direct, money is lost. We are not saying that the issue you raise is not important and serious, we say it can be regulated next week. Whether you are building a service or not, whether it should be forbidden or not, we say that we can see it next week too, without making it difficult for Parliament, which, at first, you see, is in the mood to make it easier, because we do not put it all in the same bag, we do not tell you that the amendment you are bringing about for EUROCONTROL is not reasonable. But give us the opportunity to consider in depth, correctly, with a full debate what you are proposing and whether or not the House agrees. That's it. I do not actually go into the substance of the amendment. It may be the way you say it or there may be another approach. We will see this, but let us make a distinction between what is very direct and we understand that they must come and what we can see in five days' time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u95	Before you start asking all the floor again, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-four students and students and three of their teachers from the 13th Glyfada Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now, because I do not understand what procedure we are doing, because you said your views before, of course, the Minister did not hear them, but now we will not repeat the same procedure again, I propose that we listen to Mr Stathakis as well and put it to the final vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u96	Madam President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u97	Patience for two minutes. Mr Stathakis will not speak much if he has been accepted in principle. Let's rationally close the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u98	It is not rational to close, Madam President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u99	It's normal. Here, Mr Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u100	Thank you. This is a well-known matter. These are extensions that have been granted with regard to the exemption from the sale to transfer companies of claims from unserved loans of certain specific categories. I am referring to those which have a mortgage or a mortgage on first residence, loans and credits to small and medium-sized enterprises, as defined by the directive of this European Commission, as well as from loans with guarantees from the Greek State. We suggest that she be extended for another month. As you all know, the final agreement on red loans has been made and will be legislated, together with all the other agreements, next week. We are proposing a month, for reasonable reasons, until the production process and secondary legislation that it needs goes ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u101	Did you see? It was very simple to close the procedure directly. I would therefore suggest that, because of the speakers who have spoken, I understand that there is no objection to Mr Stathakis' amendment, as well as to Mr Spirtzi's amendment, there is no objection to the maximum remuneration of civil servants,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u102	There is an objection, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u103	There's an objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u104	Is there for that too?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u105	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u106	Then we should also put it on it, if there is any objection, that it is not urgent...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u107	All of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u108	I'm sorry, what does "on all" mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u109	On all the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u110	Then we shall be placed with the time of the speakers and the parliamentary representatives, because you will not be taking the same decisions again. I therefore propose that you take the floor as speaker or as parliamentary representatives on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u111	No, Madam President. As you said at the beginning: and one and the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u112	You can't do that. So I say this: after what has been said, Mr Spirtzi, do you insist on these amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u113	Madam President, I insist, because we have been tabling them for too long. I believe that there is really no reason to have these reactions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u114	It's too late.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u115	I come to the essence of the matter: anyone who objects that we should have digital tolls in our country, who objects that foreign trucks cannot pass through Egnatia, say that he disagrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u116	When was the amendment tabled?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u117	If he disagrees with the essence, he can tell us why he disagrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u118	Minister, do not analyse the arguments again. I said you might want to say something extra. You're going to answer the debate anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u119	In other words, if we bring the amendment in a week, what else will happen? Are we going to have foreign trucks transported from the side network? Are we going to say there shouldn't be any control? That is what the amendment says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dannelis has asked for the floor, but I propose that I give the floor to all the speakers and put them in order on these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u121	Madam President, the series is one of speakers and Parliamentary Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u122	You'll talk. Don't fight. The first speaker is Mr Rizzoulis from SYRIZA. You'll all take the floor for five minutes. Mr. Rizzouli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Madam President. In relation to the amendment tabled by Mr Stathakis, there is unanimity and there is no problem. With Mr Spirtzi's position, who has justified that there is no reason for his two amendments to pass today concerning matters which the country should have solved for a long time, as well as the urgency that emerged, the amendments are accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Dannelly, it's your turn. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Madam President. As I said before - Mr Spirtzis was not here - we in fact disagree with the amendment that has to do with the PSC. On the other hand, when we were talking about L.4354/2015, we were then referring to this case, because we knew that these allowances were rewarded by the EuroCONTROL account. So if they're not absorbed, they're just lost to the country. So we do not disagree on the substance. We also do not disagree - and I said this just before - with the amendment on the monthly extension of the protection of red loans. I come to the third amendment: obviously we have no objection to the substance or to the proportionality of the tolls. However, this amendment is a separate bill. I therefore ask, Mr Spirtzi, that we follow the normal procedure, because we need to assess some of the issues. We cannot assess these. We cannot assess, for example, whether the establishment of new services is necessary or whether existing services can meet these requirements. So that we are not unfair to the bill, which we will not be able to vote for, we call for the withdrawal of the amendment. Let us discuss this in committee at a meeting - we can do well in this week - and then come to plenary. Don't blame it. For the time you are saying, I do not know if you had tabled this amendment for a long time now, we took it last night at midnight, and today we received it, in essence. So we don't even have the elementary time to process it. It is a pity, then, to blame such a bill when we could vote for it. In this form, however, we cannot vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u126	Thank you. Mr Pinheiro has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u127	Minister, what you are entering the House today, through the amendment procedure, is a very important task in establishing services in the operation of your Ministry. Of course, we should have been informed in good time and should have been consulted by citizens and services. Make a very large cut and this cut will have the time to implement, because you are actually replacing the National Roadside Fund, but it is simply more refined at this time when what you have said in your introduction is necessary. I think we're in a good mood. We are convinced that it is necessary, but we are not convinced that it is urgent. I think you should put it aside, because the New Democracy has a good intention to discuss an issue that is crucial to all of Greece. It concerns all motorways. The Speaker has worked on highways as the country's Motorway Commander. In fact, I was the rapporteur for the linking of motorway sections, because I thought that motorways should be shielded from the point of view of maintenance, from the point of view of proper operation and from the point of view of road safety. I think that an issue which concerns all of us must not be brought into the urgent procedure, and - I believe - I do not think it is. I have read your amendment and I think we will be useful to draw up a law - and let it soon be planned by the Bureau - in order to address a crucial issue concerning the safety of motorways, their use and their 'exploitation'. On the other hand, Madam President, as we have said at the first time in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence - we are voting for the two sanctions. We do accept the urgency with regard to EUROCONTROL for air traffic controllers. It is fair and urgent. I would also like to emphasise something with regard to loans. Yes, Mr. Stathakis is missing today. As far as the loans are concerned, I am tabling to Mr Stathakis and myself and the other Members of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace to record and inform us how many of these red loans are for housing, personal, professionally and by the county of East Macedonia and Thrace, because it is a serious issue and we have the agony of who the buyers will be. I think the Ministry of Development should be very careful about red loans. I should like to return to Mr Spirtzi's amendment. I think, Minister, that it will be wise to withdraw the amendment. And, in my experience, I will also be helpful to you personally and to New Democracy, because we have experiences in these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u128	Thank you. Mr. Pappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u129	Madam President, I would like to say that by listening to Mr Voridis and also to the representative of the New Democracy now saying that the New Democracy is in the mood to help and facilitate the government, I will say that we nationalists have no intention of facilitating the government, which literally leads to the drowning of the Greek people. I was amazed by the rapporteur of the Officerial Response with the speech, who says he is anxious who will be the buyers of the houses of the Greek people. Mercy, gentlemen, neoliberals of the so-called 'Dexia'! Do you not care that the Greeks will lose their homes and care, above all, who will be the buyers of the houses? I would like to talk about the amendments. Madam President, in the two amendments we will not even be present. We will not legitimize the procedure. For the third amendment by Mr Stathakis, as far as the houses were concerned - which was known, this did not have to come to ratification - I would like to say that, for this amendment, for the Greeks' houses, we are following the line of the brother of the Minister of Education, Mr. Friend, who said at a well-known interview - you will remember it, Madam President - that 'the hand of the Greeks in the first home is a cause of war'. He said, then, that the Greeks would take the guns and go out on the streets. No one's moved a prosecutor against Mr. Friend. On the contrary, one main prosecutor against racism, against racist MPs, Mr Panayotarou, Mr. Lagus and Mr. Barbarousis, because the three competitors said that "Greece belongs to the Greeks", "first of all Greece", "before all Greeks". So we said, in the protology, that the government applies the directives of the unfaithful banks of the European Union faithfully and without being lying to the Greek people. He's been lying, at least until today. Because today he's telling a truth. What's the truth? Justification for an amendment: "The proposed provision extends the period of exemption from the sale to Transmission Companies from Non-Service Loans (EMAM)", they also make an acronym, as they used to do in PASOK, "specific categories of loans, until the adoption of the appropriate regulatory framework. In particular, the suspension of the application of the provisions of Article 3 of Law No4354/2015 for another month shall be extended for a further month in order to establish the applicable framework for the transfer of claims by consumer credit contracts, contracts with mortgages or addition of a mortgage on first place, loans and credits to small and medium-sized enterprises as defined in Recommendation 2003/361/EC of the European Commission of 6 May 2003 (Official Journal L124/20-5/2003), as well as loans with guarantees by the Greek State, i.e. a sale, namely ‘according to the non-amended second subparagraph of that paragraph’. Ladies and gentlemen, confession of the government's monumental torturers, that they apply the torture of the drop to the Greek. Really, for those who have a house, an apartment, a tiles to put their family underneath, is there no solidarity? Is there no solidarity, Minister? Is there solidarity for the Vietnamese people, as you said, and is there no solidarity, no care for the Greek people? Yeah, it doesn't exist. There's no pain for the Greek. This is where you have reached the point where you have abolished the CSCE. You have reached the point of literally destroying disabled persons. You have no love for the Greek people. You can't feel him because you don't belong to the people. And there are writings that say you do not belong to the people. They were up on the internet yesterday, I think, the "subjects" and the Greeks can understand where you belong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u130	Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, what we are seeing today is happening - and, Mr Spirtzi, I honestly cannot understand your insistence on this amendment - is that there is a good mood here. At least that's what we see today. First of all, we are talking today about sanctions for large-scale agreements. There is no particular problem here. So while we are discussing these sanctions, there are three amendments coming. In particular, there is an amendment on loans. It is the fourth extension to be given to this suspension, as the agreement with the lenders has not been concluded, including any changes in relation to non-performing loans as well as to loans. At this point I would like to say: of course there needs to be an extension of one month, which is why we have already said that we are positive about that. The problem, however, is that it will continue and there will also be a course for borrowers. First of all, I cannot understand the fact that Mr Stathakis presented it and left. This is a process, an amendment in which the parties would be in place now. He didn't listen, he doesn't want to hear. It is not an incident at the moment, because of course it is an urgent matter, but it could be wondered why no one came to the previous bill last weekend. To put the amendment to the committee before 15 May, when there is an extension. It's rough. It's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... In any case, I stress that at the moment we, of course, will vote for it, but we cannot continue to support this deterioration in Parliament. We're across this tactic. Secondly, let us go to your own amendments, Mr Spirtzi. With regard to the amendment on the remuneration ceiling for the Civil Aviation Service, firstly, I would like to inform you - I do not know if you know it, I imagine you know it - that in Mr Vernardakis' bill we asked for this change to come in and it is tabled in the Minutes of this House. That was not accepted by the government at that time, because they told us that there would be a problem with revenue and revenues would not be reduced because they were European resources. You come to our own words and you bring the amendment and revenue lost for these country two - three months. That's the reality. So you must answer because it was not accepted at that time. We are going to go to the third amendment because, as you can see, there is wider consultation in these two and, I would say, acceptance. As far as the third amendment is concerned, Mr Spiritzis, you mentioned a point of order just now, that we have a commitment to the European Union and to some other issues. What most groups have asked you here is for it to come next week, for it to be put into committee, even as an amendment, to be discussed, studied and submitted to you some additional proposals. Maybe they're improving. We can help you. When you say to Parliament and to this House 'what else we will say, I brought it last night and ended this process', you are downgrading the role of Members in the way you spoke. Don't we have anything to suggest? Do you not think that we can help with something in this Parliamentary Groupings and Members in relation to this amendment? In essence, we could agree on this amendment, such as, for example, in analogue use. It is, however, a separate service and we want to see all the specific data. You understand that there is no time to study it right now. What we have asked you to do, therefore, is to withdraw it today and bring it, if you wish, as an amendment next week, but enter the committee as well and discuss it. There is, of course, a lot of evidence that we first see. There are, for example, many authorisations to the Minister for Infrastructure, from what we see, in many articles and paragraphs. We need to look at this, see if we could sort of solve some issues or if there is to be more processing. I see here that paragraph 11 authorises the Minister for Infrastructure to issue a prepaid pass, the type of prepaid pass is authorized to the Minister for Infrastructure, any other issue relating to the above, the exceptions in relation to the prohibition on vehicles to the Minister are authorized for the adoption of a decision on the categories of vehicles. In short, we are voting on something in which we are voting too many powers to you, so that you may then proceed. But in order to be able to discuss this - because you understand that the debate is wrong if we now open it on all of this - you have to withdraw the amendment and bring it under the normal procedure to a bill. Madam President, we always have to open a list of speakers. But that is not a solution. Do you know why? Because Members have not been informed on the agenda that a debate will be taking place today beyond ratification. The penalty includes a specific framework. The result is that parliamentarians are not here. Many Members today would like to take up this issue, for example. No one wants, you know, to go back to his area, to say that he voted for something different about tolls or Parliament and not to know through this procedure what happened. To protect the parliamentary procedure. And to protect her, you have a dominant role now, Mr. Spirtzi. Protect her. Take this amendment off, so we can move on. I think that's in everyone's interest right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, since they participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament twenty-one students and students and two attendants of teachers from the 2nd Haidari Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Madam President. We will once again ask the Minister to withdraw this amendment on tolls. Not because it has no interest, substance or direct character, but it can be discussed under the normal procedure, with an amendment to a bill, so that we can discuss it on the substance and not as an incidental issue. It opens up a big issue, of course. There is a question of whether or not there should be tolls. Let's start from this starting point. Our logic says there shouldn't be tolls. So all this conversation goes elsewhere. Let us also talk about all the issues that other speakers have raised as well. There will be no time to waste, in our view. We're opening a manhole. Every issue is serious. If, therefore, every serious issue comes under this procedure, then there will be no debate on the substance. We want to say a more comprehensive point of view. It's a matter of that. We say this very well to the Minister. We're in the mood to talk about it, but not with such a process. I shall now proceed to the other two amendments. We had not voted for Mr Stathakis' repeated amendment either in the past, precisely because it is based on a third-mortem law, which we are essentially talking about liberalising the sale and utilization by various companies of red loans, unserved loans and loans, as is the case in the last Eurogroup decision. This process opens the bottle of Hail, essentially starting the auction and the first home. Through this situation you understand very well that not only are the first residence not protected, but the conditions are made to open the auctions. On this very basis, we do not agree with the logic and the framework established by the third memorandum on red loans, the management of red loans, particularly loans for the people's families, housing and consumer loans, but also micro-enterprises, professional and agricultural loans. That is why we cannot vote for this amendment. We will do what we do last time and we will vote 'the present'. The third amendment that comes relates to the civil aviation workers. We understand the fact that there is a committee here on the basis of popular income, on the incomes and wages of public sector workers. The single wage is a poor budget for civil servants, but these issues cannot, in our view, be dealt with and solved by specific categories of workers who may have a special burden, a special offer - this is another issue and we can discuss it - through the logic of a voluntary policy. This logic divides and reigns, Minister, cannot stand on the substance and have long-term results. Such a logic has also been used in the past to slander civil servants, categories of civil servants, and to have this raid that followed over the previous period through the single payroll - poor wages, much more so that this payroll will also be made more general for other categories of workers and civil servants in the next period, with a view to saving resources. We shall vote on the amendment, but we shall vote on it under this rationale, with great concern that, through such a process, the interests of workers, both in the public and in the private sectors, can be served more effectively. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u134	Mr Katsikis has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that Parliament's work is sometimes painful, which we are all experiencing in this Chamber today, and we are focusing, in controversy, on whether these amendments should be discussed or whether we should be confronted with the rules of procedure, because they are coming late. However, as there is a need for their debate and a reasoned opinion - both from the main ministers and from you - we support this form of urgency of the debate. And, of course, I believe that the substance and content of the parliamentary work must be preceded many times and the printing works must be passed, which, on many occasions, hampers its progress. Now we have to go to the amendments. As far as the amendment to Mr Stathakis' red loans is concerned, we fully agree on extending the legislative, regulatory framework to serve borrowers. With regard to the amendment on the Electronic Infrastructure Management System and the Road Terminal Management Service, we were impressed by the explanations given by the Minister, despite the fact that the time for all of us was short, so that we could have the best study of the amendment and obtain the most complete and clearer picture. Because two things help to justify the urgency of this debate in its own way and also in its vote. The first, in general, is that we are talking about incorporating European directives into Greek legislation - one from 2004, the other from 2009 - and the delay is great. However, as you said, Mr Minister, the roads in the Lekanopedia, as well as the roads in which roads are to be maintained, are at risk, as far as we can reduce these costs and costs, as far as we can reduce them, as far as possible. Finally, Madam President, with the third amendment, we are also voting on the staff allowance. I have a question here, Minister, concerning the conviction that you and the representative of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DMAR - have expressed that the State's revenues are not reduced, because they do not come from them to cover the allowances of officials to the Civil Aviation Service. On the one hand, I do not know whether they are the only ones who will receive this allowance and, on the other hand, the report by the General Accounting Office of the State says that the proposed provisions are a reduction in public revenue due to the payment through the EUROCONTROL Special Account of Benefits, Remunerations and Remunerations to Officials in the State Office in excess of the maximum remuneration. I'd like, if you're kind enough, to give me an explanation of this question I'm expressing. Finally, Madam President, we are voting on all three amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the Elementary School of Gender. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Saridis has the floor from the Centroon Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u137	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party, with regard to Mr Stathakis' amendment, has absolutely no problem voting in favour of it, as it essentially covers the problem created by the extension of red loans. Mr Spirtzi's amendment, which deals with the upper limit of remuneration with EUROCONTROL, and since it relates to reward benefits, which are lost and could be granted in the form of an allowance, would not have had any question as to whether, however, these allowances actually go only to civil aviation workers or indeed to all workers, as described in paragraph 1 of the article. For the amendment now, too, by Mr Spirtzi, which concerns the setting up of the road tax office for the electronic management of road infrastructure, we understand that money is being lost, we realise that road maintenance is being burdened with. What we do not understand, Minister, is why you do not give us the time by bringing this amendment in a week, in ten days here in the House, so that we can discuss it properly and be able to take a position on it as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u138	Since the circle of speakers is over, I would like once again to ask the Minister whether he wishes at this stage, before giving the floor to the parliamentary representatives, to sit down, whether or not he will insist on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be in position. I, too, am the greatest convergence within Parliament and outside Parliament, especially in such matters. In fact, I understand that when we have some amendments that are politically contradicting or which include issues that have not been discussed, we have strong opposition. For example, what has not been discussed? Has it not been discussed whether we will have a frontal analogue toll from all parties in Parliament seventy times? Haven't we discussed any law sanction or any change in motorway conventions? Twenty times it's been discussed. Has the implementation of the directives not been discussed? She's been voted on. These directives have been passed, they have been incorporated into the law. What to discuss whether or not to apply them and where? Thirdly, should we discuss that foreign dunes should not be passed on the side network? Mr Prussakis, I very much appreciate you, and you are from an area where I have a weakness. You know them very well. Take any traffic address, every day that is delaying Parliament to institutionalise banning heavy vehicles from the side network we have dead, not victims. Every day!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u140	Sixteen months why isn't he coming?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u141	'Cause sixteen years you didn't spend it, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u142	Excellent dialogue!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u143	On the side of the network, we don't have to go through heavy vehicles. Isn't that a request for all local societies across Greece? Really, what can we talk about? I am very grateful to Mr Theoharopoulos for making these comments. Mr. Theocharopoulos, where are the authorisations? The majority of them exist today. Today who determines the categories of vehicles? With authority, the Minister. I repeat. Who defines toll pricing policy? With authority, the Minister. The vinnietta, which is paid by the foreign junkie that passes through Egnatia and we pay decades and its loans and maintenance. Run it? Some people, then, when the National Road Fund was closed instead of upgraded, did not think that we should have single electronic systems on all highways whether they are concessions or they are public, they did not think there should be specifications for them. It's common things, it's nothing terrible. They didn't think there had to be reliable mechanisms and control systems. In fact, my office - you know - is always open. I am also available in Parliament to make any proposals. It's not clipboard. It's been built for too many months. It has been discussed with stakeholders of interest. It is a request from local communities. I call on the opposition parties to support it and to vote for it today and to make it public by all political forces, as a Parliament, for the protection of the public interest and public health. The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks asked a question about the other amendment. The General Accounting Office, of course, sees a reduction in revenue. But what he doesn't say - and that's right, because it's not his job to say it - is that if that money doesn't go there, they won't go to the General Accounting Office. In other words, if we do not go through this amendment, we will have even greater reductions. Because this money comes as revenue in the Greek state from EUROCONTROL for specific costs. And one of these expenses is the pay of these people. So it won't be the General Accounting's revenue to provide for a reduction. There won't be any. That is why it has to be corrected. The reason why we didn't accept it when the river said it, I don't know, I wasn't here. The minister who handled this had not accepted it. However, I think that it is not in his logic that we exclude a sector. He's not in that logic. We are very consistent with what we say. This is money coming from EUROCONTROL. It won't take the country else, it'll lose it. They are rewards that people deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u144	Parliamentary representatives are now in order. Can we at this stage make an indicative vote on whether or not we agree that the amendments should be discussed, so that the parliamentary representatives also know what they will be put at the table?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u145	All together. The vote will take place later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u146	There is also the proposal, if the proposal is rejected and the amendments are finally discussed, that they should be written down. Of course, I do not see any speakers, but three - four can be written.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u147	There are not many speakers, Madam President. They're counted on their fingers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u148	I know. However, I have to follow a formal procedure. I'm not gonna decide that. It must be done by a process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u149	Madam President, they should have been written when the rapporteurs spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u150	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u151	What do you want, Mr. Pappa?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u152	Because I have miserable obligations, can you give me the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u153	I would like to say something at this stage and before the parliamentary representatives take the floor, because we will not give back the floor to put them on every amendment and every detail. Already, each of the speakers in his or her position on whether or not they should be discussed has also entered into the substance of the amendments. I am therefore saying that at this stage or we will have a vote on whether they are going to be debated - which means that if they are to be voted on, that is the essence - otherwise the parliamentary representatives will start and vote afterwards. But it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u154	Madam President, it's from the top. Since the Minister doesn't withdraw them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u155	The Minister won't withdraw them. I invited him a second time to sit down and he said he wouldn't withdraw them. So at this stage I suggest...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u156	So they're being discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u157	They are being debated without a vote. Okay. So Mrs Vaki has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u158	I've been covered by the previous positions. And since I was put at the outset as a parliamentary representative, I do not want to abuse time and I resign in favour of fellow Members. I would like to say that it is good to open a list of speakers and let colleagues be placed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u159	Madam President, may I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u160	You have the floor, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u161	I am not, of course, opposed to opening a list of speakers, but there is the peculiarity that this is a debate off the agenda. So a number of Members were not aware that it would be discussed. Let's have this in the back of our minds. And Mr. Pappas expects to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u162	So since there is a request from both SYRIZA and New Democracy and - I imagine - from all the others for speakers to be registered - despite the fact that not all of the Members know so, and in that case, I propose that these posts should be held for two minutes. And now to write - whoever wants - the speakers. Open the system. So after Mrs. Vakki, Mr. Brutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u163	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u164	What do you want? We have heard that you want to leave and announce that they will tell you in the vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u165	I'd like for a minute to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u166	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u167	If the other Members have no problem, I shall speak. Mr. Minister, Mr. Spirtzi, you have involved the public interest, public health, etc. in your amendment. You really weren't - and I don't mean you personally - your Government, your people who made a toll on the tolls that opened the bars and drove the cars freely without paying? And now you guys come up here to establish electronic tolls? Is it not enough that the Greeks pay VAT - we revealed that the VAT of the Greeks ends in Brussels - which pays traffic charges, pays tolls too? Don't you think of the Greek worker leaving Liosia with a car to go for example to Maroussi and for that, come on, he has to pay 5,60 euros? Or does he want to go on a journey for whatever reason and for recreation - does the Greek have the right to recreation and cut him off this summer again and you are waiting for foreigners - in Thessaloniki and will have to pay 55 euros tolls? I said before that you are unconscious and do not belong to the people, not even to the average Greek. State cars don't pay tolls. The roads open and go through like this. Do you not understand what situation you have brought the Greek people first, and then you with the support of the New Democracy, with the support of counter-population? We are not forgetting in August 2015 that you voted together. And now hypocritically they're so-called opposition. Madam President, if you have no objection, I have to leave on a point of order. We are not present in the amendments of the main ministers. Although Mr Stathakis knew that he had to give a month extension, he could have brought the amendment this weekend. Why does it bring her today as an overcame? He could have brought her this weekend. It was related to what you discussed this weekend. We are, however, forced - even this torment of drops I have said - to say 'yes' to the amendment to extend one month. In the rest, we're absent. Thanks for giving me the show.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u168	Mr Brutsi has the floor. The list of speakers is closed. There have been five speakers. They'll talk for two minutes. We have made the Rules a little tire, because the list normally opens up after the speakers. Mr. Brutsi, do you want to talk for five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u169	Of course, Madam President. Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say that it is a positive step which concerns amendments, although transnational agreements, we are opening up a list of speakers and Members' request is accepted. I'm putting it in a positive position. Madam President, before I get to the essence of the issues relating to the amendments in particular - because in the rest, it is understandable that we agree - I would like, as it has not dried up the ink from Sunday's vote on insurance and tax, to speak as a Parliamentary spokesman for the New Democracy on social issues, resulting from the vote on Sunday and which highlight the difference in social sensitivity between SYRIZA and the New Democracy. I am going to say three figures and I am actually going to go into the amendments. After the vote, which took place on Sunday, Mr Minister, the Greek people and especially the workers, the low pensioners and the wage earners, or those who are paid low wages, must know that now the Greeks' tax rate of protection at their income from EUR 9,545 - which you have taken - goes down to EUR 8,636. This, in terms of wages, knowing that it has an impact on the basis of which you received the tax on employees at EUR 682 from us at more than EUR 617 will be taxed on employees in the private sector. And here I remember some time the great EUR 751 that you did not finally do, but you taxed them. The second concerns the minimum pension. At the minimum pension I would like to tell you that you received it at EUR 486 from us and downloaded it to EUR 345 to EUR 386. And I remember, outside the House, in the Constitution, the speeches made by Mr Katrugalos and all the SYRIZA officials, who then led the indignant. Today, of course, this leadership came into Parliament and today they are silent and say nothing. I will not say about the ESS that you are abolishing and directly hitting the low pensioners. I will close with an issue that they are now beginning to feel. I won't say about engineers, Mr. Spirtzi. Because, if I open the engineer thing, you personally are deeply exposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u170	To open up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u171	I was Minister and you put locks and chains outside the engineers' fund and you prevented contributions from being paid. And today you put on engineers 38.2% and lawyers and doctors? Do you remember your behavior when you were a trade unionist, president of engineers? I want to go to the villages under two thousand. Madam President, we have, with sensitivity, delivered to villages under two thousand the insurance contribution to EUR 750 and brought it to EUR 1,335, that is, 87% increase in villages under two thousand, to small shops, to cafes that keep society stuck in the countryside. These as general remarks. Now, basically, we agree with the conventions. They are not unrealistic, they are transnational. Firstly, we will not say no on the Red Loan Convention. We're positive. But be careful, every month comes an extension. This is also a mockery to Parliament. First of all, we are losing our credibility. What does that mean? That either because of fear of political costs or because you are not ready you do not go ahead with the final solution and settlement of the issues. Here, we say yes to the amendment, but you quickly bring the final solution. Secondly, as far as civil aviation is concerned, we are in favour. You have, especially in this critical service for Greeks, for flight safety, and in this very controversial part of the workers we are positive. So we are also positive in this amendment. As far as tolls are concerned, however, we agree that this is a very important issue, but we agree that it must be discussed in detail. I do not understand the government's acceleration with a late amendment when you have spent a year and a half in government. Come on, let's discuss this whole context in detail. There are blurred points, gray zones within this amendment. They must be answered. But, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, we cannot agree to another organisation. Do you have to appoint twenty more people to take a salary on the board of directors and around - on behalf of executives?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u172	The Minister said so, no new people will be appointed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u173	Listen, on the employee level, it says so. At the level of administration, however, I am not guaranteed by the Minister's statement. It assures me of what the law says. The statements made by the Ministers on the other day of the vote do not apply, but what the Greek Parliament has voted on is true. That is why, because there is provision here for the creation of a new management board and also enables some other friends of SYRIZA to take care of each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u174	I propose that the speakers should also change with the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u175	After me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u176	Come on, Mr. Loverdo, because you're in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Madam President, because there is the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs and the Library Committee and I have to go. Listen to me. I am obliged to return to the issue of the amendments, because from what the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has said, I understood that he has not understood exactly what the objections of opposition are. We're in a very special process. In the past, by a very strict exception to this procedure, we have brought amendments. I stress that, by a very strict exception. Now there is the rule of the amendments in summary or specific procedures, and indeed many. Sisters, not to us! We'll speak the language of the truth. She's helping us move further. So I say this: after you have brought three amendments at the last minute, why did you not bring your amendment on the coastline? I now say, if you are urgent to solve so many problems, where you humiliate yourself, why do you not rush to correct them? Madam President, on Friday night, before the insurance, sixteen SYRIZA Members, led by Mr Tsirka, whom I recognise as an Attica MEP only - all others not from Attica - brought an amendment to the transfer of officials with a large number of witnesses, indictees and others to the Coastal Sea. We told them here. The Democratic Reconciliation has seen it and said it. We told them, get in touch with local government, because there's a matter. They said, they don't need us to do this, we'll do it. The next day, the municipalities were informed, mobilized. He said you'd get her back and show that you're offering other places and correct them and put the district manager. And the days pass, but as you bring everything else, that's not what you bring. Second ribbons to us! The third issue, Minister, is for tolls. First, do you have the signature of the Minister of Interior, after you have established a new agency? You don't have one. That's a guy who underestimates a brutal perception of what's a majority? The guy's a repetitive substance. We have to have what the law says. You may have a signature from the Ministry of Interior. I didn't find it, looking for it, because you haven't followed the normal process. Second, are you telling us about the past? You were organizing predatory movements with "I don't pay". Do you know how many times I happened to prevalence my toll through your comrades? The head of this process that you had taken him out in front of, you have him in charge and accountable for a number of his obligations to the tolls. The man has given fifteen thousand interviews that you cheated on him - SYRIZA - and you tell us that we could have arranged in our own days the issue of parallel roads, where we would have forced a number of motorists to go from the main road network? Do you realize your reactions? And, well, you're here sixteen months ago, and while you had to bring it into the ratification of the Foreign Ministry's agreements, are you telling us above that you don't need this House? Because that's what you said. Do it yourself then. If the House is compelled, do it yourself then. What are we telling you? We're telling you that you've had a law plan for the past few days. Why didn't you bring that there? Because, Minister, it has two sides. It is, of course, the one you say and with which we agree, on the side roads, on accidents. We agree with that, that's right. The other side is establishing a service. That's what we disagree with. You're setting up a new state. In a country which does not offer what you should, instead of doing rationalising procedures, you are constantly setting up new services. The resolution of the people's problems with the establishment of new services is an old method, cost-effective and unsuccessful as far as the substance is concerned. Here we wanted Parliament's views to be expressed. And we wanted to make a distinction between agreement and disagreement. Do you bring this to us with this House not knowing the procedure and complaining, does it seem strange to you? You're making a mistake, it's very reasonable all that we're talking about. For EUROCONTROL, Mr Theocharopoulos, if I remember correctly, I would add that this was not the first time in Bernardakis. I remember, Mr Spirtzi, talking about this with Mr Papapa's draft law in October - right? In other words, since then, we have said that they are resources, which will be lost and added. You're doing it now. That's fine. We support this. Now as far as the loans are concerned. Madam President, we have voted for all extensions and have at the same time asked the relevant Minister, Mr Stathakis, what the content of the dialogue is, because we have a direction of information from the government, which is very contradictory. All loans to the Chaakakatus Commission, except for first-stage subsistence and for one year, have been agreed to be granted to funds. In the current dialogue, it is known that the loans, which will be granted, including those which are served, so-called 'green' and not'red'. The attitude of the Minister and the parliamentary control which does not come today, which is humiliating this House, because it blackmails on the basis of the need to prolong the violation of the Rules of Procedure, is to come here and with absolute political rudeness, since he says what he said, stands up and leaves. In parliamentary scrutiny, when asked, not only is he absent, but he does not charge any of the three Deputys, who instead have to come here and explain themselves. This dark guy, called Minister of Development, comes along, talks and runs away. It's not right. And it should be in the complaints...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Loverdo, you're also abusing time. You're also a courtesy of courtesy. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u179	She's rude, Madam President. It despises parliamentary control and despises the legislative process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u180	But finish now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u181	I conclude with a question addressed to the chief legislative initiative, Mr Xydakis. It's about his ministry, not his own. Today we have seen that the Foreign Minister is visiting Austria. That's right. He is with him and the ambassador of our country in Austria, which has been revoked, I remind you, two or three months ago. And it was revoked, because Austria had beenhaved against Greece as it had done, because it was pursuing a closed border policy. We had kept a reservation on the measure of revoking an ambassador as a form of diplomatic protest. Now he's taking her with him. What changed in the policy of closed borders? We are not clear what the Foreign Minister wants us to do. Does he want to close a thing? With what changes, in Austria's intermediate attitudes, is the matter closed? Badly opened it, as our opinion was? She needs a self-criticism. It seems from the move that it is unilaterally attempting to normalise our relationship with Austria. That's good. In the previous period, however, actions are recorded, some of which are in the form of a diplomatic error. It would be very good for Mr. Xydakis to comment on it. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u182	I shall now give the floor to one of the speakers. Mr Balaurras has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u183	Why me and the other five minutes? I don't understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u184	Others are Parliamentary Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u185	I don't want to talk much more, but that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u186	He's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u187	Five minutes, the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u188	No, two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u189	First of all, I would like to make a point to the Bureau. Mr Loverdos said a minister was dark and you had to intervene immediately, Madam President, in order to restore him to a proper position. I think Mr. Loverdos will understand that probably in the hole of his word he said it. Secondly, the procedure. I am not going to escape - and I think all the Members of the SYRIZA, because we are also Members - from the objections of other Members. The procedure must be very careful. We must not copy all over the previous period - I will not say it dark - which was not right, where hundreds of amendments came and were voted on. Today, when we have a bill of ratification of an agreement with Vietnam, I do not think they had to come and even without the Members being notified. In fact, for one of these amendments, for air traffic controllers, I personally dealt with Mr Juliarakis' office for four months, and we waited some time for him to come. And he came not the best way. Of course, there is an emergency - we are in an emergency - but somehow we must be careful. I would also like to address everyone in our group. It was right that you went beyond the Rules of Procedure and gave the floor to the Members - I note this - which the Members of the other parties have also asked for. As far as the agreement is concerned: Mr Brutsis came here - he's used to it - and started criticising the agreement. He even arrived in villages under two thousand people and said farmers, shopkeepers, etc. would suffer. None of this - and I say it from this seat - is true. It mentions numbers that don't stand. Depending on that, Mr Brutsi, the insurance class will continue to pay too much in many cases less than the previous premiums. It's just things. And Mr. Loverdos may be right about some of the objections he made. But now, not the time, the question of Austria or Sweden or the Netherlands, I do not think that makes sense. But I have to say two things, because we are going through a historic one - I would say - at a time for our country's progress. The day before yesterday, in order to have an agreement of a significant nature, not only concerning the evaluation, which in itself was very important, but also about the regulation of the debt, even with the stepping-up we will see in the course of the process. But it must be told to the Greek people that this is an incision. And it should not be for those who stay behind this side to make a completely unfavourable criticism, throw the ball out of the platform and ask for elections again. I think it is also disastrous for them both for the country and for its course. Madam President, I should like to end by saying this: on 24 May, if everything evolves well, then there will really be an important sign of hope, a light of hope for the Greek people. I believe that the SYRIZA strategy will work, because it is a strategy based on a very difficult agreement, which we have had to make, but we are serving it, since the strategy tells us that after the agreement and after the debt regulation, we will be able to attract investment from outside and outside, so that the economy will gradually start to get back, the children from abroad to get back, the unemployed will start to get less of the tax impact.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u190	Finish it, Mr Balaura.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u191	I shall conclude, Madam President. I think it should be said that this feature of the agreement should - with reflections and yes, by being on guard - be an intersection for the six-year-old course of the country, a path that has been destructive, which has blindly served our lenders. We don't serve. We have made considerable progress, we have managed to make alliances and we are not ruling, Mr Brutsi, with a fax from Frankfurt, from Brussels.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u192	Madam President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u193	Why are you asking for the floor on personal grounds? Because I said your name?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u194	Five times you said my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u195	I haven't touched you anywhere. Where's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u196	You said I was having a fax.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u197	No, I said that as a government you were taking a fax and implementing it, you made it a piece of legislation. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all let us say that SYRIZA and ANEL are not renowned for the way they legislate. We always have a rough legacy. We have amendments to the amendments and amendments that are late, at night. I would remind you that an amendment to vocational training the other day had an area of thirty-five pages and was close to being larger than the bill in which it was incorporated. With regard to the two amendments to this ratification, the one on non-performing loans and the one on financing the costs of the Civil Aviation Service, we are positive. In the third amendment, Mr Spirtzi's third amendment on the Electronic Infrastructure Management System and the Road Management Agency, we have to say to you: The amendment includes a proposal that we made as a Potami and in the previous parliamentary term and three months ago, here, from this step, for the burglary on foreign trucks, which enter the Greek territory - it is very reasonable, we are already late to do so - and for their banning them from moving on the roads or on the side of the provincial road, thus saving the fees, tolls, etc. However, we do not have the time to sit down and check to see why this arrangement is being made by setting up another agency, another agency. We in this are reluctant. We are saying 'the present'. We are not voting against it. But we are saying 'no' because we do not have time and means at the moment to pass through the suffering of questions on the question of setting up another public service. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, when we are discussing the urgent needs of Greek society, we have other super-crisis, in which the government majority closes its eyes. First of all, since we are talking about the transport network in Greece and the need to develop the Greek production potential by facilitating the movement of products, goods and goods, I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, of the following: First of all, by decision of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotou, from 1 June the largest customs office in the country, the 5th office of Piraeus, which is one of the largest customs offices in the Mediterranean, will unfortunately put a lock on it, will close at 17.00" instead of the 21.00" that was in force until today and will apply until 1 June. Minister, isn't this a concern to you? Doesn't it bother you? Greek merchants, producers, who want to move their products export, will not have the necessary time - until 21.00 p.m., which until now at least served them - to move goods and goods from the province. Furthermore, the 5th office of Piraeus passes through all the containers exported by sea from Greece abroad. What does that mean in practice? This means that Greek exporters will at least find themselves in a difficult position to lose one day. If we multiply the four hours a day when customs operates less than a week, they lose one day of exports, with all negative effects that has on their credibility towards their customers. I would remind you, of course, that the railway line there, that is, the Greek runway, has been closed for sixty-six days. We've arrived over two months. Transport and export operations, mainly in northern Greece, have put goods and products in a semi-hardened position of more than 50% of their personnel, so as not to be driven away from them, as they cannot carry goods and products. The exporters have been enclaved and increased their costs, because they are going through Bulgaria with a 25% more cost. So you realise how difficult Greek exporters are. What are you going to do about this? [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] I would also like to raise two more issues and conclude, Mr President. We have tabled a question, with the head of the Potamio, Stavros Theodorakis, and of course almost prudence, and the Group of the European Parliament, to remove the amendment by the Members of the SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, with which the court orders would be built on the fascinating front. We do not have many opportunities to exploit free public spaces in Attica. The Olympic properties were for a certain purpose. They have been living there for twelve, thirteen years. Are we going to replace the broken Olympic properties with courtesy and courts and a large transport charge? Where? Upstairs at sea? Where should we, in other words, have a comparative advantage for tourists - and not - just for Athens? We have not seen an amendment to take it back. Finally, I would like to say another word about another amendment by SYRIZA Members, requesting that the permitted distance from hotels be reduced...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u200	Well, now what does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u201	I'll tell you. ...for the operation of the tolerance houses. Is that how we see growth?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u202	Mr. Amyras, please. Don't open that now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u203	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u204	This is all linked, Mr President, because all this is done by means of amendments. And be more sensitive, my dear colleague. When the amendments come at night, you have not read them either and you do not know what you are voting on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u205	You didn't notice my speech!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u206	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u208	Mr. Katsiki, wait a minute. First of all, we have to get one order into order so that we can finish it quickly, because Parliament's control is next, for which colleagues have been waiting for weeks. Mr Amyras, let me not ask again, we have the picture in the Bureau who are in favour, who are against, who vote'residents'. Tell us about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u209	The Members of Parliament have not been placed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u210	We're not done, just to mark it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u211	Do we vote before we're placed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u212	I'm not asking you. Mr. Amyras, who was placed, I'm talking. What are you interfering with? I'm not asking you. Mr. Amyras, I'm asking!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u213	In the amendment by Mr Stathakis and Mr Tsakalotos to extend red loans to non-persistent loans, we are positive. For the second time, we are positive about financing the costs of the Civil Aviation Service. The second amendment by Mr Spirtzis on the Electronic Road Management System is a statement on the second amendment by Mr Spirtzi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u214	Good. We have two 'yes' and a 'yes' because you may not be in the Chamber at that time. We said we'd go alternating. Mr. Bukkoro, you have the floor from your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, if you're kind enough to give me the floor for half a minute to restore...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u216	I'll give you the floor normally for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u217	I want to reply to the Parliamentary Representative of the River...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u218	You'll talk in five minutes, and that's why. Mr. Amyras won't leave. Because I see that you will speak alternately with colleagues and parliamentarians. Immediately after...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u219	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u220	I will give the floor to you shortly after being a parliamentary representative. In the five minutes you'll have, I'd be happy to say what you want. Mr. Bukkaro, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, Mr Spirtzis has left for his amendment. It is an amendment which changes traffic conditions on the national road network and on the parallel networks. The Minister's here. It is certainly an important initiative and our reaction is not due to its content and substance but to the way this government legislates. On the occasion of today's amendment, Minister, I would like to remind you that the SYRIZA Government is no longer a new government. You have spent half the previous government's life, the Antonis Samaras government. Fifteen months you closed, twenty-nine months was the government life of the previous government. What do I want to say on the occasion of today's amendment? It is clear that the SYRIZA Government, fearing political costs, is legislating in this way. We are starting from last year's referendum, with the blurred question that was held in six days' time. Let's go after September: Bring the SYRIZA Memorandum - ANEL on August 14th, 15th. Public opinion has not been informed at all. He's voting. Then comes the new SYRIZA government after September and most of your legislative work has been produced by legislative acts. You bring insurance and taxation last weekend, with a media strike and you legislate again in secret. You are bringing an amendment which is very important today, as all the previous speakers have said, at least on our side, without having time to discuss it, without hearing any experts, to prevent some reactions from transporters. We understand that. That's understandable. The amendment is very important. It changes traffic conditions. We absolutely need traffic on the parallel network to be safe. I come from a constituency where we have been mourning young children for the last two years. However, this must come to the House more comprehensively and be discussed in detail, Minister. In the next bill next week bring it in, since almost all the wings - the vast majority - tells you to look better and legislate better. Finally, stop legislating in secret. In conclusion, because I have heard some other colleagues who have heard that measures by the SYRIZA Government are milder than measures by the previous governments, Mr President, I would like to say that the SYRIZA Government has not legally annulled any of the earlier legislations or measures or cuts in the previous governments. It adopts them, collects from those measures and, in addition, sets cuts and measures. So it's worse government than the previous ones and it's very simple thinking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u222	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u223	Minister, let's see this again more fully. That's our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-six students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Counuupidian School of Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Katsiki, because the request was submitted to me and I submit it to you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos needs to leave and he wants the floor for two minutes. Because I told you I'd give you the floor, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u225	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u226	It's approved. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u227	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u228	And Mr. Katsiki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u229	And Mr. Katsiki, of course. For the amendments, I had first been put. For Mr Stathakis' first amendment, we will vote'represent', as I have said, and for the amendment for workers in the civil service 'in favour' in the sense that I have developed. For the third amendment which I had not placed on what we were going to do, I had asked the Minister to withdraw it. He insists. We shall vote against 'against', because all that the Minister claims is pretexts in sin. Why? Because once there are tolls, it makes sense to have these effects on the corridor and to bear the paradox. From this point of view, our position is not to choose between the least or the greatest evil and that is not the logic. We say there shouldn't be tolls. The tolls must be abolished. From this point of view, it is another matter to discuss whether foreign-plate vehicles will pay off some form of fee when they enter Greece. We may be able to discuss this side. It is another matter, however, that we are all talking about generalisation of tolls, much more so that through the electronic toll system and proportional, as the Minister says, we are afraid that there will be an increase in tolls in the next very serious period and, secondly, that the whole system of electronic tolls will be monitored through this system of electronic tolls and the routes of which they are doing, so it is a record of what route each has made, which has been made and for whatever reason. So there is a risk that a "big brother" will be installed through this process. In this respect, we are voting against the amendment to the electronic toll system and thank you very much for the time you have given me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u230	Mr. Katsikis has the floor for five minutes. Then there are two other speakers, Mr Metarakis, and Mr Karanastassis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u231	I too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u232	We said alternating, Mr. Karras. I have not forgotten you and Mr. Rizzoulis, who will replace Mrs. Vaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u233	I too, Mr. President. I'm a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u234	You're not written. As rapporteur, you have spoken, but in any case, we will not mistreat you. Here, Mr. Katsiki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u235	Mr President, for thirty seconds I have spoken because I spoke earlier and the procedure has been completed, and on the amendments we have tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u236	Good. I'll give you the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u237	I did not take the floor if I did not feel the need to restore the truth, which the Parliamentary Representative of the River, Mr Amyras, has abused and distorted, saying that along with SYRIZA, the ANELs have tabled an amendment to the Falconic Delta. No falseer of this. On the contrary, we have provoked the decision to those who tabled the amendment to withdraw it and we have done so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u238	He obviously meant that you had voted in favour of the Ministerial Amendment, and in retrospect, what you said, not that you tabled it, had initially voted in favour of it. It is clear, there is no point in that. I would also like to thank you for your brief time. Here comes Mr. Metarakis. Here, Mr. Mitarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u239	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for the floor in principle, because since January 2015 the government has been using sanctions for international conventions, as a way of bringing amendments to which it does not give Members the floor. It is good what happened today, which opened the list, as was the case - to remind you - in the IE Period. I must say that it was very positive that the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mrs Vaki, voted in favour of this new practice. From now on, Mr President, I would like to ask you to discuss every amendment that comes to ratification with the very same procedure as the amendments that are being discussed in draft law. The amendment is an amendment. Members must have the right to speak. On the substance of the red loans amendments, we naturally supported the extension given. But the government must finally come and tell us what is its overall planning. What he is negotiating, what he wants and how he sees a problem evolving over the next few years, involving hundreds of thousands of households and businesses. As far as the two amendments made by the Ministry of Infrastructure are concerned, I will not go into the substance. However, I will take a positive view, Minister, and I will say that if the amendments do solve all these problems, you are wrong in your work. You are entitled to listen to this House in order to confirm what you are saying, you are deprived of the right to support your work, to the Vice-Population Members, to make constructive criticisms, to deny the Committee on Production and Trade the opportunity to discuss what you are proposing and possibly, Mr Minister, to be able to propose changes and improvements to what you are doing. The amendments should therefore not be used by the Ministers as a means of protecting their own work. Since today's amendment is certainly not urgent, you could have tabled it today as an autonomous bill in the Committee on Production and Trade and in a week's time I think it would have arrived for debate in plenary, on the basis of the specific procedures laid down in the Rules of Procedure. The Scientific Committee of Parliament could resolve a number of issues raised by colleagues. CENE could also have helped to better write this amendment. Because we have the experience and with what happened on the coastal front of Attica, to which other colleagues have referred. There is a proverb that says "night the dams are seen by day and laughing." The government itself was forced to come and withdraw - so it says, we have not seen it yet - an amendment that has been passed at night because you had not worked out. Mr President, in closing, I think that today we have created a new precedent in the IZ Period. If new amendments come to new sanctions, I believe that we will now deal with them in the same way. The President-in-Office said before that one of the reasons why the list should not be opened is that of parliamentary work, namely that there are Members' questions. He's right. But I have just learned that since the sixteen that have been tabled, only four will be discussed. We will not discuss twelve anyway, so we will soon finish their debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u240	This does not cancel the colleagues who are waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u241	No, but there should be time for the Members to speak. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u242	You will allow me to tell you that the right will be sanctioned, that no amendments are tabled. The moral motor for opening the list when there are sanctions and amendments, unfortunately it is me. I say this because as Vice-President I should have strictly respected the Rules of Procedure. However, because they saw a request from Mr Loverdos, who is sitting in front of me in a similar case, which was most important, I was responsible and accepted to have a list of amendments opened. Since then, this has continued and I fear that it has been done reciprocity, which is not entirely compatible with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u243	That's very right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u244	I'm just telling you about the story. Not to charge Mrs Christodoulopoulos for her fault. It's my fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u245	The violation is that amendments are coming, not that they are being discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u246	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u247	It is what we in the IGC asked for after-causing period and SYRIZA then said that there can be no amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u248	You're talking about something that's happened before. I'm talking about the current situation. Mr. Metarakis, you're right. It's just in this period of moral automobile. Mr. Karastasis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u249	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will only speak of the amendment by the Ministry of Transport, Infrastructure and Networks, which relates to the management of tolls and road infrastructure. What this amendment is coming to heal is that we have two concessions, in 2007 by Mr Soufflia and in 2013 by Mr Chrysochoidis, which have created huge problems so that at the moment they cannot release all cars on a safe road because of pricing policy. I therefore believe that this procedure with Mr Spirtzi's proposal comes to cure the problems that exist. I mean that everyone is on a side road which is not safe, on a secondary national network, creating huge problems in their maintenance and above all creating huge problems in road safety, because we have too many accidents. I therefore think that a way should be found to ensure that all heavy vehicles and vehicles which are too dangerous, are driven to the primary national axis, namely PATHE, or to these axes which are being built at the moment, so that we can deal with these problems. But above all we are also coming to cover obligations, which we have in two directives, which are from 2004 and 2009 and which we have not tried to cover all these years. I therefore believe that this process is coming to cure problems that exist and that this agency will be able to find these ways so that everyone can pay proportionately. I think that the aim of the Ministry should be the pricing policy that will be implemented so that no motorway user is thinking of using a safe national road network. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u250	I give the floor to Mr Karras and we will close the debate with Mr Düsseldorf. Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor. You are always comprehensive and brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try, I don't promise. First of all, I should like to say that I honour and praise the debate on the amendments. I am one of those who have hampered the government's policy because it impropers the work of Members and does not allow us to have full information about the amendments. I shall, however, proceed to follow your recommendation on a brief basis. As far as the amendment on so-called red loans is concerned, we will vote on it. I am one of those who tirelessly have said to the House that a six-month extension should have been given from the beginning of the year, not to be offended, not to have the role of the Parliament, because it was assumed that the evaluation would not have been possible to reach a new agreement, but, furthermore, we had no information about the government's intentions. I shall therefore take note of this point alone. We do not even know what percentage red loans are to be sold to the funds, we do not even know what percentage the funds will be allowed to make out the surpluses that are expected and heard. So I'm going to the next one. I have a gap, Mr Spirtzi, in the amendment to EUROCONTROL. I've got a huge gap. I'll tell you, and if you're kind, you'll answer. The provision of L.4354/2015 is amended and a subparagraph is replaced, which says that allowances and other benefits are not counted. I see that the articles of Law 2682/1999 relating to the Civil Aviation Service are added. My question is, therefore, why does the law not contain it, the provision you are proposing, if the revenues of EUROCONTROL go for the allowances of all those who serve abroad? I would remind you of the first verse, which speaks of all kinds of remunerations of policemen and guns. So will EUROCONTROL be paid to all of them for serving abroad, or will they only go to civil aviation staff? I am not told by your amendment, Mr Spirtzi, and I am not told anything else in the explanatory statement. It does not tell me the amount that will be available, so that we can be weighed - a comparison, as to whether there is a loss of revenue of the Greek State, as the General Accounting Report says or whether we will - in any case - have a savings on this money. In that sense, therefore, I will say 'no' to this amendment. I am not in a position to vote for it. Let's go to the third amendment now. The third amendment - if I may say so - is a memorial of bad legislation. For what? It contains provisions of administrative law - the establishment of autonomous services - and increases the structures of the state. It does not matter whether the self-employed service depends on staff and will be transferred personnel, in fact it increases the structures of the state. It interferes, if you want, with the Road Traffic Code. Here is a huge question of banning traffic on parallel roads. I understand the need for road safety, I understand people's demands, that they should be safe to live in the place they live, but I do not understand why the right to public freedom of movement, which is provided not only by the Constitution, and the Code of Road Traffic in its first article, is unequivocally restricted. Mr Spirtzi, in your oral development you said something different from what the explanatory statement says. The explanatory memorandum with paragraph 8 provides for a ban on transit on the side road, in general and vaguely throughout Greece, obviously - all work, lorries, etc. But you did not tell us what this side road is, for whom it is forbidden to cross and, above all, why it is forbidden. Should this traffic be transported to the concession companies, even if it is no longer proportionate? Should we create extra revenue in the concession companies? Mr. Spirtzi, please, if you're kind, listen to me, because I think I'm saying important things. I am one of those that I have mentioned in the Chamber some speeding up contracts, both earlier and relatively recent, for which I have not been convinced that there have been public money acceleration and disbursement contracts and I have my reservations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. As far as this amendment is concerned, I shall vote against it as much as it appears that it solves problems. And one final comment on the tabling of the amendments: the government, Mr President, does not only bring in time-consuming amendments irrelevant to the bills but has also found a new way of applying the Members' vote. When it comes to sensitive issues, which the ministers do not dare, because they are Members of the Second Athens Assembly or for other reasons, to take responsibility, I would like to believe - and I ignore them I want - fellow parliamentarians in the province to table amendments, such as the catastrophic at the beach volleyball in Kallithea, Mr President - I made an autopsy in space and I saw it - and then when he sees the reactions and that he can't pass it, he says 'I'll call it back.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u252	Once a Member signs, he's not in ignorance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u253	I'm giving a lightning, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u254	The process may be what you're saying, but once he's signed, it's not in his name. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade is tabling its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "Modification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the People's Republic of China on cooperation in the field of maritime affairs". The floor is for two minutes and we are closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, first of all, we cannot cover the subject on which we have asked for the floor because three amendments have been tabled to the law on the ratification of the two known agreements. I thought that the Minister responsible, Mr Spirtzis, would have withdrawn the third amendment, concerning the establishment of a new body, a public institution which will deal with the motorways of the country and concerns all of us. I thought that after the arguments of all the parties and those speakers, she would have been convinced and withdrew. Unfortunately, however, one of the public actors, Mr Spirtzis, who, as he has shown us so far, composes and listens to a very big subject, introduces it and tries to secure the vote for the creation of a large body by means of an amendment. First of all, it is a delay, and secondly it suffers. Mr. Loverdos described it in detail. I, too, insist that he suffers because he says that this body will be covered by officials from the wider public sector, from grades I and II, as well as by legal entities governed by public law. The competent Minister, the Minister for Administrative Reform or the Minister for the Interior should sign this amendment. But we should also go to the essence of the amendment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For the record, in 2014, Minister, the operation of the National Road Fund, which was set up in 1927. By 2014, it only operated on behalf of the tolls of Coast and Malgaras, employing a hundred and twenty employees. The remaining tolls are operated by concessionaires under concessions. It should be stressed that the resources of the TEO, the National Road Fund, other than the two stations, were also from the fees of using public works machinery, from car insurance premiums, as well as rents from adjacent to the national roads. Subsequently, the power of the tolls of Malagasy and Activity was transferred, Mr. President, to the 'ENGINATIO', a state-owned company...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u256	Yeah, but don't make a history.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u257	Mr President, we need to talk because it concerns an important law and an important tool of the Greek state and we should not just stay in the field of the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u258	Deal, but time is time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u259	Time is time, but let her withdraw it. Let the amendment withdraw, that the Minister should come here, that we speak and offer our own knowledge and experience as a party. I'm on it. The Government, Minister, wishes to set up a new autonomous service, similar to that which has been closed for reasons of public interest, with a distinct title, Road Terminal Service and object...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u260	What were public reasons?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u261	The public reasons he closed down. I mentioned to you earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u262	Why didn't you tell us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u263	No dialogue, please. Mr. Prison, please. You've been talking for four minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u264	...is the development and operation of the electronic road tracking and toll charges system. For electronic toll systems there are and operate under concessions signed by the Greek State with private companies. Other tolls don't exist. This information is of the opinion that they can be collected from one directorate of the General Secretariat of Public Works and exploited or controlled by the administration of the Ministry. Two...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Purchass, you need to close in thirty seconds, five minutes. I can't do this anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u266	Mr President, I am a draft law rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u267	Excuse me, you had to talk first five minutes. You've already talked five and a half minutes, plus another five, and we'll be ten minutes and more. That's why I'm leaving you time, but I can't, because I hear complaints that I'm making discrimination.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u268	But I'm rapporteur for the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u269	You have already spoken five and a half minutes as rapporteur. That's what the Rules of Procedure say. And another five and a half minutes, 11 in total. Hang up in a minute. Go on, Mr. Prisoner.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u270	It is also the development and operation of an electronic traffic monitoring, recording and processing system. We also consider that, under the concessions, this object can be operated by the counterparties of the Greek State, as well as by an address of the General Secretariat of Public Works. Third, the development and operation of an electronic register of European Toll Service Providers. The government is amazed once again, because it has already been set up in the European Toll Service Support Office. Fourthly, management of the Toll Monitoring Centre. The competence of the Toll Monitoring Centre was transferred to the General Secretariat of Public Works. Fifth, as regards the drafting and adoption of mandatory application specifications for single analogue tolls across the road, independent service or operator, the proportionate charging of charges by vehicle category is a fair and modern means and measure either per kilometre of network use. And through this process, keep in mind that they will disappear as far as...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u271	Please conclude with the position of the New Democracy, whether you vote for it or not! Complete with what the New Democracy is doing on the amendment. I don't have any more time. You're talking about six and a half minutes. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u272	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u273	Leave it "Mr. President"! From two minutes I went to six and a half minutes, because you're rapporteur, but no longer possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u274	Mr President, I am so sorry. If you insist, I won't insist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u275	I don't insist on it. The Rules of Procedure insist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u276	It is, however, recorded in Parliament's history that the new Republic's rapporteur was not given time to develop his positions on...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u277	It has been multiplier than is laid down in the Rules of Procedure, Mr Prussia. I don't accept what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u278	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u279	And I tell you that you have been given a multiple year by the one laid down in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u280	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u281	Well, Mr. Risulis, also in excess of the Rules of Procedure, because your party has not come to see you replace Mrs. Vassilis, he has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u282	So for three minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u283	Yeah, just so we can keep up and know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President. Obviously, as has been mentioned by government MPs, we would like a better procedure on the issues of amendments. However, with regard to the issues on which the majority of at least Parliament - all on the substance - agrees that they should be resolved, but that they should have been solved for years - we have even been accused here because we have not solved them now, and they have not had to solve them in the past few years! - since, in other words, there is this agreement, we do not understand why these amendments should not pass. Obviously, Mr. Loverdos finds no good reason for the previous governments to have solved these and finished with this priority. Incapacity did not lead them to solve these things, but they expect the SYRIZA - ANEL Government to do so. Obviously, the government will do it, as the amendments have come. The appointments that the government has allegedly made relate to a service which has been dismantled and which is necessary to enable the system, which we all agree should function. The system, however, needs a service that should not have a board of directors, because SYRIZA has to make appointments! What a logical and conspiracy that is, I can't understand! And I am ending with this, Mr President, and you see that I am very brief. Because this step is always being used in unrelated bills, as some have said about the amendments, to make political advances of what happened in the previous period, I would like to say this. Here a combination was made that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government reduced pensions with the bill that passed, without a proportional pension being mentioned. We only talked about the national pension. And then we said we're abolishing the CSCE without mentioning that there's a national pension...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u285	Now, what does this have to do with the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u286	80% of the speech made by the rapporteur of the New Democracy was that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u287	No, I heard the rapporteur talk about the amendment alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u288	I'm sorry, I wanted to say to the parliamentary representative. 80% of his speech was what the government did last weekend, and I say it in thirty seconds. As for pensions, it was never said where the pensions would end, as the previous draft law in the OGA provided for, in 2021-2022, that there would be no pensions for the OGA. And then we should see who would cry for those people who would not have a pension and what insurance contributions and what a step and how much they would pay! Just, as I said, the Step here is being used to effectively mislead those who are watching and lose the substance. As far as the amendments are concerned, they are accepted along with sanctions for contracts, as they have been tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u289	Although they have been placed, for formal reasons we have to vote. Following the debate on the articles and amendments and agreements, we are going to agree with the IRAK. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is hereby terminated: "Following the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part, with the integral Annexes 1 to 4, Appendices, Protocols, Notes and the EU unilateral Declaration. on Article 96 of the Agreement and other provisions.’; Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u290	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u291	The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u292	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u293	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. Will the House ask: is the amendment accepted by a general number of 430 and by a specialist from Mr Spiritzis: 'Electronic road infrastructure management system, electronic management and road charges', as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u294	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u295	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u296	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u297	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u298	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u299	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 430 and a special 4 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment under general number 431 and special number 5 by Mr Spiritzis, Mr Tsakalotou and Mr Juliarakis, on the maximum salary of civil aviation officials, as it stands, is accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u301	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 431 and a special 5 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u302	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u303	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Following the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part, with its inseparable Annexes 1 to 4, Appendices, Protocols, Notes and the EU unilateral Declaration. on Article 96 of the Agreement and other provisions’, it was accepted in principle and by a majority. Do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u304	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u305	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u306	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Following the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part, with its inseparable Annexes 1 to 4, Appendices, Protocols, Notes and the EU unilateral Declaration. on Article 96 of the Agreement and other provisions’, it was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle of principle, Article and the whole, which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u307	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u308	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. With regard to the second bill: the debate on the principle of Article and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is declared to be adjourned: 'Following the Comprehensive Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part, with the declarations and other provisions thereto'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u309	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u310	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Following the Comprehensive Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part, with the declarations and other provisions attached thereto' was accepted by a majority in principle. We shall now vote on the article and the amendment. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u311	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u312	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. Will the House ask: is the amendment accepted by a general number of 429 and by a specialist number 3, on issues relating to non-performing loans, an amendment to the provisions of No.4354/2015?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u313	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u314	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 429 and a special 3 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u315	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u316	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Following the Comprehensive Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part, with the declarations and other provisions attached thereto' was accepted in principle and in Articles. Do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u317	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u318	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u319	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Decision of the Comprehensive Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part, with its declarations and other provisions’, was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, Article and the whole of it and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u320	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u321	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u322	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I have the honour to announce to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 13 May 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 848/10-5-2016 by MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Iglezi to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the preparation of the forest fire risk. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 843/9-5-2016 by MP Kavala of New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the payment of the funding of the school committees for the payment of the school cleaners. 3. PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the transfer of real estates by the Olympic Pole of Faliros. 4. The Question No 849/10-5-2016 by Congressman Pireias of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Culture and Sports regarding the designation of the area Afantou Rhodes as an archaeological zone. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 844/9-5-2016 by MP Drama of New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the availability of five credits required to recruit a minimum number of permanent educational staff to ensure the smooth functioning of the Department. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 846/9-5-2016 by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister of Health, concerning the immediate treatment of the issue of the on-site child in Argolida. 3. The Question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and National Defence on the problems of the refugee and migrant accommodation area in Scaramaga. 4. The Question under number 825/254-2016 by MP II of the Centro Association Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Health concerning the residual functioning of the Anticancer Hospital of Metaxas. 5. The question asked by MP Ilias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Finance about the schedule for payment of late government debts. 6. The Question dated 829/25/2016 by Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the old EUR 90 million debt on urban buses due to previous administrations. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Iglezi to the Minister of Health about the needs of the Artificial Leaf Unit of the General Hospital of Halkidiki. 8. The Question No 708/28-32016 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Health on the problems of the General Hospital of Lamia. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you the questions which are not being discussed today on the basis of an impediment by the main ministers and which will be redefined for discussion. Athanasios Davakis, Member of the Commission. - (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council and the President of the Commission for their support. The fifth under number 836/4-5-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Greek Parliamentary of the Union of Centralroes Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of National Defence, on the problems and prospects of the Greek Vehicle Industry (ELBO), is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The third, with number 835/28-4-2016, is the first question of the MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the inclusion of the Department of Digital Systems of the University of Piraeus in the 2nd Scientific Field (EP) - Scientific Field of Positive Sciences and Technology, not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education Mr.Nikolaos Friends. Also, the first question by MP Laconia of New Democracy, Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the restoration of the Old First First First Court of Sparta for the housing of the General Archives of the State of Lakonia, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs. The fourth under number 841/9-5-2016 topical question by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the delay in the adoption of a Joint Ministerial Decision, in accordance with the provisions of the paragraph. See first part, No 11 of Article 42 of the EC Treaty. 4280/2014 (Vegetable Vegetables 159A), with the consequence of causing serious problems to farmers who have the use of brown parcels or to those who wish to exercise the right concerned, will not be discussed by the Deputy Minister for the Environment Mr Ioannis Tsironis. The first under number 840/9-5-2016 topical question by MP Trikala of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Athanasios Papadopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the non-preferential submission of a responsible declaration of status as a farmer, for the agricultural photovoltaics, is not discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of the Environment Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis. Also, the second question under number 838/6-5-2016 of the Second Circular of the Member of the Greek Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Hatzidakis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the living conditions of refugees - migrants in Greek, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Ioannis Mousala. The seventh question under number 813/21-04-2016 is a topical question of the second question of the Athens MP, Mr Spyridon - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the Ministry's 'interference in the tenders for the selection of 100 doctors and 400 nurses', not discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Pavlos Polakis. The eighth Question No 794/18-4-2016 by Mr Constantine Steeriou on the need for the prevention, treatment and support of the Volos carcinogens is not discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Paul Polakis. The second 2808/193/1-2-2016 question and application for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the case of small Melina in Venizelos Hospital of Heraklion, is not discussed due to the obstruction of Minister Andreas Xanthos. The ninth under number 545/15-2-2016 a topical question of the second Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of Health on the problems of operation in EKAB will not be discussed due to a refusal to join the Minister. Finally, the third question under number 842/9-5-2016, the second question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the VW car scandal, will not be discussed after consultation of the honourable Member with the relevant Minister. Now, after consultation with the previous Members and at the request of Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou, even though his question is the sixth timely question of a second cycle, he will be debated first. Therefore, the sixth question will be discussed under number 830/26-2016 of the President of the Republic of Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglu Vassiliou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the irregular reductions in aid, the necessary extension of the deadline for the submission of the Single Aid Application for 2016 and the right to submit objections to the definitive rights will be imposed. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, Mr President. Although the question has been postponed for a week, it continues to be up to date for at least most of the issues it raises concerning the payment of aid and, more generally, the aid management system. It was made after a long delay and the balance was paid and the definitive entitlements to each producer were issued for the period 2015-2020. The communication of these rights has upset the farmers' area, because there have been too many mistakes. It seems that this concerns a large proportion of farmers. We therefore regard as the primary task of the Ministry of Rural Development to ensure that producers who consider themselves wronged by the definition of their rights to object. That's the first thing. The second issue, for which I would like to hear from the Minister, is to see what happens with the payments of certain categories. For example, those who are in control when will they be paid? Let us see what happens with the young farmers who have been entitled to aid, according to the CAP, for a number of years. When will this aid for young farmers be paid? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, I can tell you that there is one issue with those who had transferred, but also with the people who joined the previous programme of young farmers, in the previous programming period. For all this, we want the answers so that we really know how to deal with them and what is the Ministry's intention on rights and payment issues for all categories. Of course, there are still payments for organics as well. Although payments have been made over the previous period, additional payments are still pending. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u324	Minister, you have your honour today, you have four questions. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u325	Mr. Colleague, you say we've brought a disturbance to the space. On the other hand, we say that we have put order on payments, for the simple reason - only one I will tell you - that for the first time our country in 2015 has not been penalised, financial corrections. And that as much as you want to hide it is a great achievement, since with the course that we have had so far about 20% of aid every year, we have been subject to fines and withdrawals. So we put in a class. It makes sense, in fact, when you put a class in a situation that was mostly characterized by chaos, there are people who react, for the simple reason that they certainly had the consequences, and there are people on the other side who have seen for the first time that things are distributed to them just as they were entitled to. Of course, there is no way, on the other hand, that the reactions are not there. You all know it. We all know how the space works. What I have to say to you is that we have complied with the legal procedures that the new CAP implementing regulation provides for, a regulation with which you agreed, the previous governments agreed, and which, of course, has its negative. Mostly it has its negatives as to how it is implemented. That is why, when Mr Hogan announced a few days ago that he was given a month's extension to finalising applications to the OSCE, we were not the ones who headed there, they were too many states. And the acceptance to go by June 15 was almost universal, by all the ministers, which means that the other countries also had problems with the implementation of the new CAP. However, despite the problems, we were from the first countries we paid in time in December and, of course, we completed before Easter, as we said, the payments of the single payment. There are issues relating to and when the procedures are completed. You know that when it closes - and we're talking about June - all those who had been in control will be paid. That is how it is provided for in the procedure. There too, they have a problem with transfers with young farmers. We will see how we can meet the needs that really exist through the reserve, because young farmers need to be satisfied. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] From there on, however, we have already raised this issue with the European Commission. They didn't accept it now to solve it. We will insist in the light of the 2017 review, so that we can really solve the great problem that has arisen because of the regulation and its - I would say - anticipation, which has not finally been implemented, because there are no possibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u326	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u327	Obviously, there is no specific answer to questions, and I would ask at least that they be given: When will the objections be raised, when will the payments be made, when do you expect the procedure to be completed? Look, I will submit to you in the Minutes the document that Greece and Poland - and I am gladly asking for it too - submitted the request for an extension - not other countries - in the knowledge of the problems. I am therefore tabling this document because you said that we did not submit it, that we did not ask for it, that other countries requested it. I'll give you two papers from many. One is entitled: "In three days the rights have been reduced" and the second is said: "Action for cut-offs for farmers". The specific evidence that the Minister will read in his silence, to see that there is a matter and a problem. Since he doesn't believe the MPs, he can see if he believes the producers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u328	There are 20 thousand young farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u329	Mr. Kegeroglu, give the papers to be filed in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u330	Yes, sir. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] When you get the right to object, you will see, Minister, what is the nature of the problem? We have a huge issue with young farmers. The young farmers who joined the previous programme have issues with transfers - not only young farmers but others - and the rights and reductions in the money they were receiving. You said that we would see how young farmers are paid out of what the new CAP provides for, we will find stock there, we will do, we will show. It is very generally what you have told us. I believe that the problems can be dealt with more effectively - and it will be for the benefit of the work it does or wants to do by the Ministry's political leadership - if there is more transparency. Unfortunately, there is no transparency in the management of issues by the OPEKEPE. The information gates for citizens and farmers have been closed and there must be more transparency. By the way, I can tell you that there are loose ends to the old Articles 68 and 52, with the payment of linked aid for milk and meat. There is a great deal, Minister, that you need to see in particular. Leave now the theories for the bandage or the fines. The fines, you know, after the year has passed, after the second year, are charged, they are not immediately charged. So we'll see about that. But there is a huge issue and I would ask you to tell us what is going on with the rural development programme. Mr President, 6 billion'sleep'. When we say that we want money to relaunch the economy, there are 6 billion guaranteed, whole, for the rural development programme and we do not know when they will be activated and what actions will be activated in what time. There has been a pre-publishment for young farmers, for the programme of young farmers and it says that the normal publication will come out in September, but it tells them, now go and make transfers from parents or others, property, IACC's statement and September that the time will come, if it rejects them, does not say what will happen in the process. It's something earlier, I think. But if, even as an early step, it makes it easier for you to give some insurance, Minister. So, what about the rural development programme, with the entire six billion, which has been guaranteed by the past, the previous government, as has the new CAP and so forth, and you have not yet taken out the working groups, have you not yet set up the working groups so that drivers can come out for each programme?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u331	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u332	It is unacceptable for sixteen months not to have left the drivers since 1 January 2015. I don't know if it's your responsibility or Mr. Bollaris, but it's your department.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u333	Mr. Kegeroglu, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u334	We want answers, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u335	Before you take the floor, Minister, I would like to make a statement for two seconds. The Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad for the period from 2 June to 5 June 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u336	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u337	Mr President, my colleague always tends to generalise parliamentary control. From one point of view, more generally, as regards matters...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u338	You will answer the timely question, because for the second part you want half an hour and I do not intend to give you the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u339	I repeat that there are special procedures and if the objections raised justify that the matter can be dealt with, such objections are made and we gather them. And you realise that because the Rules of Procedure are specific and are forbidden beyond the end date to make changes, but especially when there are these specific conditions which we can justify, we will do so. The farmers know that. You referred to the rural development programme. You have forgotten, Mr President, that as a government you had sent the rural development programme, we were returned after six to seven months as unacceptable and we finally made the necessary corrections in December, this programme was adopted and we are already in the process of setting up groups. In the first half of the year we have already scheduled - we have made a publication for young farmers - and other actions and programmes. Make sure that we communicate and have the time to do so. A total of 7 billion will be the money that will enter the rural area through this programme. You realise that for us and in general for our country - I am not saying it now for the SYRIZA - ANEL Government - it is the only tool that the rural area can have so that it can go forward. And he's already started going forward. On the other hand, my dear colleague, what we are doing about the rural area, and we are really unjustified about the transmission of what we are doing, I will present you with a report from the newspaper "ELEIGEROS" - do not tell me that the newspaper, which expresses our place - which is what we talked about in the previous days, the impact, the tax burdens, how they will change as far as the rural area is concerned from the application of the law we have discussed in the previous days. And it says about incomes from 5,000 to 20,000 and you will see in the situation in detail that the rural area has refunds starting from 1,200 to 1,300 euros and going to the point where they multiplely outweigh the contributions that will be made about ELGA. So you realise that what I said the day before yesterday is experiencing a historic day, because for the first time the tax is taxed, for the first time, is treated as a first-class citizen by national pension. And that's what you completely ignored, and there's been a battle. I'll give it to you to be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u340	So, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u341	Did you finish, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u342	Minister, I want a date. When can objections be raised?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u343	There was no answer to that question. I have to say it because I said it about the other one. Vasilei, we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u344	Say it, Minister, so they can be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u345	Mr President, just a minute. There has been a concrete answer, which says when there are reasons to justify, objections are raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u346	Where?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u347	We are obliged to look at the reasons and if these reasons can be accepted by the Commission, we shall proceed with this. We can't make a commitment...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u348	All right, where?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u349	Mr. Kegeroglu, please, we're done with your question. You were given the order of business by colleagues, not to abuse. Next is the first under number 839/9-5-2016 timely question of the first cycle of the MP Pellas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Sifakis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on compensation for farmers for reduced production in almost all tree crops of Pella and Imathia. Mr. Sifakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question concerns the serious damage caused by weather in the agricultural crops of the Prefectures of Pella and Imathia, as well as the Velvetou region of Kosanis. In particular, in addition to the frost and hailing compensated by the ELGA regulation, reduced production has been observed in almost all tree crops with symptoms of limited fruiting, unfermented flowers, but also affluent fruits that fall. Given that the damage is very large, on the basis of the initial assessments of both ELGA supervisors and of the Rural Development Directorates of the regional units concerned - I have here the report of the Directorate for Rural Economy and Veterinary Affairs of the Regional Development of Pella - and also given that the economy is based on a vast proportion of the primary sector's economy and that damage comes to be added to the serious damage to agricultural crops and to the two previous years and also taking into account, on the one hand, the amendment to Article 5 of Law No.3877/2010 made by Article 71 of Law No.4235/2014, which allows for compensation by the ELGA for damages above a certain percentage by law in case of reduced production on trees following the conclusion of the Scientific Committee set up by the Minister of Scientific Committee and on the other hand, perhaps compensation possibilities available through the de minimis programme, the rural development programme, in the event of reduced production in the event of the finding of a Scientific Committee set up by the above Minister of Industries and on the final conditions for authorisation of the proposed European Union. In addition, there is the need to initiate consultations with stakeholders to amend the ELGA Regulation. In a debate with the President of ELGA, Mr Kurebbe, we were told that the organisation intended to accept proposals from the agricultural associations and the cooperatives of the trees that have grown crops, which have been mentioned before, for the preparation of proportionate studies, with a view to the additional coverage of farmers and other losses not covered by the regulation. You ask yourself whether you intend to urge the ELGA to proceed directly with the necessary actions, in particular the award of the proportionate studies, so that we are not every year in a difficult position to discuss the same things in almost the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u351	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u352	My dear colleague, the damage is indeed as you described it. They were made as well as announcements and the relevant declarations were made by the producers. What is left to us now is to start the assessment work so that we can also see the size of the damage and at the same time see what percentage the ELGA regulation can cover us and from there, and see what we can do, especially for the other cases that are not covered by this regulation. At the end of this procedure, the payment will be followed, as far as those covered are concerned. He's staying to see what we're going to do for the rest of us. Of course, because there are damages that we want, in cooperation with the ELGA, to see how we can make use of the other tools, what we know - the de minimis programme and the PESA - and to see the possibility through the impact of climate change. This is all a part of what we will use to support agricultural production. From there, as you know, about the PSEA - that is, the part concerning State aid - particularly there, we want to see the great issue of incarpia, which has arisen in the region from these damages. The point is that this is certainly due to natural disasters and weather conditions. We certainly have to prove that. From there on, we will see how, through the limits laid down, for 30% of the losses of similar species in regional units, the relation to loss of production with the production of previous years, i.e. data such as the Ministry's side that will enable us to see how we can haunt the corresponding de minimis and what we have said above through the state mechanism and to submit this request to the European Commission, so that we can approve this possibility. We have already said what we were discussing about recoverys and all these fines that come about were due, and most of all, to the fact that they did not receive the approval of the European Commission. From there on, of course, taking into account the country's financial situation - I want to be honest because it is money coming from the state budget - we believe that we will be able to satisfy ourselves, because there is indeed a problem of damage in the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u353	Mr. Sifakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u354	Minister, I am pleased to hear on your part the recognition of the problem, as far as the level of damage is concerned, as well as the fact that you will do your utmost to relieve the farmers affected. What I would like to ask you, on behalf of the farmers, of these regions, as well as of the Members present here, Mrs Karasarlidou, Mr Antonios, from Imathia and Mr Dimitriadis from Kosani who have just left, to proceed with as closely as possible to the completion of the examination of possible ways of compensation, because the problem is a great deal. Of course, we are interested in legality, whatever is possible on solid ground, not to be under the aegis of the return of any money from the rural world. The opportunityal policy that has been pursued in the past, that is, let us now give what we give for political reasons, even two days before the elections, and perhaps turn it back to the farmer in the future, with another government and Minister, and it will be the minister who puts the blame at the time, not the one who first created the problem, is a policy that we are not in agreement with. They are condemned and do not reflect the moods of the afflicted agricultural world. We would also like to see the committee which, following the first examination, involved at least one farmer from every county of the affected, so that you have the opinion of the farmer directly, his agreement or his objections to the discussions that will take place. Furthermore, the involvement of the rural world in the proposals for the reform of the ELGA regulation must be seen as self-evident, as we believe your contribution to dealing with any problems for the award of the necessary proportionate studies, studies that will make the data available for a possible additional optional insurance for any farmers who wish, beyond the basic compulsory minimum, insurance to cover more damage, on the basis of certain conditions that will also be set for consultation. I want to be sure that, in the days of your Ministry, the necessary debate on strategic development in the agricultural sector will still begin, which is best known to everyone that they have been missing from the rural area over the past decades. With the debate on the necessary restructurings and the placing in a scientific manner of crops and varieties, taking advantage of statistics, rational development in the Pella, Imathia and Kozani Prefectures will be achieved and the expansion of the chronological harvest season, with better results available for agricultural products on domestic and international markets. In conclusion, once again I would like to point out to you that finding a solution for the relief of farmers in the affected areas is very urgent, as the damage is great and the world will be hungry, it will not be able to grow next season and perhaps, in some cases, humanitarian problems are created for farmers and their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u355	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u356	My dear colleague, we have a problem before us which you have to see - as you have rightly pointed out - and how we will give a solution immediately. However, because this is an area that unfortunately is going through problems of this kind, we have to see how, through the amendment of the ELGA regulation, we are going to deal with it on a permanent basis. On the first request, we are already in the process of setting up a scientific committee, because it really needs to be documented so that the request can be accepted. In this committee, we have no objection to farmers' representatives being involved, I am simply telling you that this is a technocratic scientific committee. However, it is good to hear the view of the farmers too. Through this documentation, through the documentation of adverse weather conditions - through the Meteorological Service - we can deal with this issue in its current situation. But, to look at it from the ELGA side, a scientific study must be preceded, showing how ELGA can cover these damages. Let us also see the question of the proportionate study on the level of the premium, because if we stay in the logic of the premium pay, and there is a premium that is too high, I do not commit, but see how in this case we will cover the piece, which cannot be covered by a high premium by producers. Of course, these require that the necessary ministerial decision be taken when they are completed so that we can cover them. However, what I would like to say, since you mentioned the strategy for the area, is that we have already tabled a development strategy in the institutions on the rural area. This plan has been approved. We discussed this during the negotiations. What we now have is, after we complete the evaluation, and we should really contact the world to see how we are in combination with the Rural Development Programme, we are really starting to serve the place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u357	The fourth question under number 819/254-2016 will be discussed now by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the delayed single applications for support from farmers for the year 2015, the incorrect digitisation of agricultural parcels of growers integrated into agri-environment programmes and the problems created by the technical solution given in 2014 for the distribution of the public eligible areas of responsibility of OPEKEPE. Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, Mr President. Because my topical question has three legs, I'm gonna use my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u359	You'll have a little tolerance. Let go of the dentistry. You're gonna need it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u360	All right, Mr. President. Sixteen months now in the Greek Parliament, Minister, I have been particularly concerned with the problems of farmers, because Larissa is especially rural. My personal conclusion is that most problems were created by the choices of previous administrations and OPEKEPE, as well as by the political leadership. Farmers and farmers know that very well. Unfortunately, opposition moves us to the finger and asks why the payments are being delayed, why they are being made. This timely question has three parts, Minister. At the OPECE, as you know very well, there are too many farmers and farmers who have tabled the application for the single payment in good time. There are too many of them. It was submitted late for financial reasons. They either didn't have to pay that amount, or they didn't know. It should be noted that the lack of information to farmers is too great. They are therefore excluded for at least five years, not for one, but for five years. They must demonstrate force majeure in submitting this application. As you well understand, it is unfair hundreds - not to tell you thousands - farmers throughout Greece, at least for Larissa hundreds of farmers who either did not know or did not have these forty-five euros, to be excluded from the single payment application for at least five years. Secondly, for farmers who are part of the agri-environmental programmes of organic farming and nitrate pollution, these people have faithfully followed the programme, but are at risk of being disowned by the programme because of the spatially positive settlement of the issue. Never asked for a topographic chart. The main cause of their declaring from the program is precisely the topographic chart. Thirdly, there is the known technical solution given in December 2014, where many farmers while using certain pastures in specific places, suddenly thirty, fifty, a hundred kilometres away, saw the pastures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u361	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-six students and students and two teachers attending the 55th Municipal School of Patras. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u362	My dear colleague, the single payment application is submitted either by the farmer himself or by his representative. There are specific gates without alpha, no beta. Of course, they themselves have an obligation to inform the farmers. But the dates are binding. What we are doing, when they have problems, especially from the implementation of the new CAP, is trying as much as possible to extend and we are addressing the European Commission, because that is where the decisions are taken. What I want to tell you about this case is that we have already gone back last year. Again, farmers have been found late. We must accept that there may not be any Ministry, OPEKEPE, or information portals, but let us also look at it from the point of view of farmers. That is why we insist that they should finally organise themselves to monitor their developments, their obligations. Because we're talking about the new year, I'd say they've already been informed. We give a month more. But in the event that no one has submitted his application by 9 July, there is nothing we can do. All we can do is to have a request to justify the reasons why he did not object, to see how we will proceed with it in the European Commission. But these procedures at some point will have to stop so that we can do our job properly. By giving an extension of one and a half months to the submission of applications for objections, it brings payments back, and then we have protests because we did not pay in time. We should have a consultation between us. On the issue of applications for force majeure - because this can be invoked by you - we will do our utmost to make a minimal derogation, of course, bearing in mind that the correct application of the regulations is necessary, so that we do not have the fines and the consequences from the operation. For the rest, I will respond to dentistry, particularly on agri-environmental issues and the technical solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u363	Because they are practically kept, the reasons for force majeure don't need to be analysed much, do they? However, I give you two minutes' speech, Mr. Red.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u364	Minister, that's right, you're talking. Perhaps a proposal to the European Commission to extend the reasons for force majeure would be a satisfactory solution. I am sure everyone has the responsibility of doing so. It must be updated by 9 July to submit the single payment application. However, the result of not submitting the application is very unfavourable because it loses the right to be paid for five years and not for one year. I would also like to remind you, Minister, that for the second part these people are in danger of endorsing the reasons why they have not even been informed. For example, no one told them that they should produce a topographic chart. The cause of the danger of their endurance is precisely the spatial difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u365	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u366	Ladies and gentlemen, especially for agri-environmental matters, you know that we have had problems in 2008-2009. We made a great effort to get to the end of 2015 having paid in 2013. We still have loose ends on these issues. What needs to be understood, however, is that it is expressly stated that the identification of agricultural parcels, their scope, their location in the identification system, their use for other activities must be submitted. They must be told when they submit their request to this portal. You saw that we, for our part, made an important move in tripling the respective gates, not only because, through this process, there was ultimately a positive impact on prices - the paradox, which farmers paid, fell half in relation to what was previously in place - but at the same time, a competition, from the gates, is going better to do the work. There's no other procedure. The regulation is specific. The applications will be submitted through these gates. With regard to the part of the technical solution, which we gave to pastures, we did give the technical solutions to make payments and at the same time avoid what I said to you in 2015, the fine. We were already fined yesterday, which was in 2013, about 267 million. There is the lack of the fine for 2014, which I do not know how much it will be. So you realise that these must be taken into account and de facto there are problems. But all this will be solved. In particular, on the issue of pastures, where the temporary and definitive plans already in place, we will also have a stock of eligible areas for pastures, which will cover not only the problems but also, above all, the prospect that we want to give the area. It must be understood that the area of ovine and caprine animals is the area which has the overwhelming advantage so that our country can stand in the rural area in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u367	Minister, only to allow - for the second part of the question - the correction to the nitrate programme. That's why you didn't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u368	We're studying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u369	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 3 March 2016 have been distributed, and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u370	The Minutes of Thursday 3 March 2016 (March 2016) were therefore ratified. The last time we have debated today is the timely question. It is the fifth question under number 832-26-2016, the new Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Ministers, Rural Development and Food and Finance, on measures to compensate farmers and restore crops and infrastructure from the fire caused by 21-4-2016 in the areas of the East and Myrtle of the Municipality of Ierapetra OP Lassithi Crete. Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the fire erupted in conditions of powerful winds in the East and Myrtle of the Municipality of Ierapetra with incalculable disasters in thousands of acres, in olive trees, which are the main agricultural occupation of the inhabitants, in forests, in grasslands, in animals, in farms, machinery and in irrigation networks of thousands of metres, which do not allow irrigation of even those crops that were saved. And, indeed, trees were burned on the mountain slopes, which, of course, runs the risk of even greater destruction in the event of rainfall. This shows the need for direct State intervention and support for the affected. We ask you, Minister: why so far have you not declared the area in an emergency and firefighting situation? It has already been twenty days, an autopsy has taken place, even the Secretary-General for Civil Protection in Ierapetra has come down, ELGA is informed, the region is informed, you have exchanged documents between you. Secondly, will you immediately compensate, without many bureaucratic procedures, terms and restrictions, for 100% of the plant and animal production of the damaged plant and livestock capital of the establishments? Will you allow those affected to join the compensation scheme, the ELGA, the PESA, and even the IACS, so that people do not lose their aid? Also, homes, stables, warehouses were destroyed. Will there be state financial support that meets the real cost of reconstruction or repair? You realize that if this is not the case, the wounded will fall into the nets of banks and loan sharks. The Region of Crete received EUR 95,000 for the restoration of irrigation and water supply networks and other infrastructure. The disasters, of course, are much larger. These amounts are not sufficient. Also, the degrading sum of 80,000 euros for the cultural protection of the Municipality of Ierapetra, which the government gives for 2016 in an area, of course, of many and increased needs. Are you prepared to provide immediate exceptional financial support to the municipality from the state budget? Of course, the treatment of fire disasters requires technical, flooding and anti-corrosion projects to protect rural infrastructure and homes from flooding and flooding. I told you earlier what could result from a rain. For all of this - and I would say a few things about firefighting, I shall say in my dentext - you have to give us very specific answers, because if the problem is not solved, all of this is to be added to the millions of problems facing the rural world as a result of your anti-grassroots, anti-agricultural policy, the new common agricultural policy, with cut-off subsidies and insurance, because even if you say now about duty-free, you will actually get them through insurance. So I would like very specific answers for everything I've put to you. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u372	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u373	My dear colleague, as you can see, specific answers to so many issues that you have raised are difficult to answer. What I want to make clear from the outset is that we do not have an emergency request from the beginning, especially when this matter is not our responsibility. If we are summoned and there is such a request from the relevant ministries, of course, we will also present our own assessments, what we know. What we know is that there has indeed been damage from the specific fires in the area of Ierapetra. We have had many damage to herbs, particularly to trees, in many greenhouses, over 200 acres. All of this has been made announcements. A hundred and ten original damage claims were filed. The necessary points have been made from the point of view of ELGA. You understand that we will see the relevant records, which we will do and whether they are covered by the ELGA, and from there, the issue of State aid coverage comes in. As I said before, state aid, i.e. the PSEA, wants a documentary procedure and the European Commission. So we will see whether approval - which is very likely to exist, because the damage - was, of course, a great deal of damage, and of course, whether the financial conditions allow for their cover. However, it is not just those damages that I have told you about plant production. There are also great damages to beessommers. And that's where we have a problem. It is not exactly a record of the number situation. You realise that we are now relying on assessments, we are relying on information, but especially because this part needs to be supported in supporting it to make sure that we do our utmost to cover it up. Of course, you've raised other issues. What I have to say to you is that, in particular, on matters relating to our own competence, we are trying to deal with problems, which are particularly present in the irrigation works and problems that have arisen because of force majeure, as I have said before. But on these and others, which I shall tell you, we have no request at the Ministry. In other words, we, in addition to what our services have already appreciated and which we are working on, have nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u374	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u375	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in any case what you have said to us well, but every time, which arises from a natural disaster, a fire, rainfall, frost, etc., it also works a little bit as a pretext for the government to say "You know, I have not yet been given the ok in writing to declare the region's emergency and so on." I am sending you the requests from the farmers, I am sending you requests from the municipality, I am sending you requests from operators in the region, which must be met immediately. And on this issue, we want clear, concrete answers as to whether, in time, you will satisfy 100% of livestock and plant capital and the impact that farmers have suffered on the region. And you know, it's all a package. You cannot tell the question of compensation from ELGA, from PSEAs and so on, from the damages suffered by animals, buildings or the question of fire-fighting, because you realise that all of this helps to resolve the problem as a whole. Of course, we are very well aware of the limitations which the European Union puts in place and which you yourself have set yourself. But look at how bureaucratic it is, how stimuli there is to compensate for such cases of natural disasters, from fires, from ice-creams, while, on the contrary, easily, for example, through development laws, such as the new development law, which you have already tabled - you give incentives to large business groups with the pretext of having a good investment climate for business groups. At the same time small and medium-sized farmers want to invest in their lands, they want to produce, they want to live. And here we are talking about the EUR 35 billion Juncker package, the new NSRF, which means that billions, which in the end will not go to small and medium-sized farmers. So here is what our difference is with your policy, which is essentially destroying the small- and medium-sized farmers, so as to concentrate land and production on a few hands. From this point of view, then, we think that you should go beyond procedural terminology, bureaucracy and directly compensate producers, especially in such circumstances. Indeed, what we are telling you is that ELGA and all these agencies must be state-owned public bodies with sufficient public funding and not self-financed. In other words, at the moment when the farmer contributes to the ELGA, at the same time this money is not returned to the farmer himself. And, of course, we also need to change the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament and pay 100% of all of them. As far as the needs of fire-fighting are concerned, the area is a dry-water area and catches an area from Vianno to Ierapetra, which is woody, has glasshouses, has olive trees, is a mountainous and semi-urban area and needs to be equipped with the Fire Service. He's got 20 people right now, and he needs twenty-eight. He doesn't have any machines. At the same time, we put the municipality and the volunteers on the job that the Fire Service had to do. Of course, they give titanic struggle all people there, firefighters, volunteers, the municipality, etc., but you can't solve the problem like that. If you do not see the firefighting issues tomorrow, we may be dealing with the same problems again and discuss again how these problems will be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u376	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u377	Mr Colleague, this is the procedure after the damage. We are obliged, based on the reality that we have in our hands, to heal as much problems as possible. All farmers, who suffer damage, are submitting corresponding declarations. I tell you that even in these cases, which have not all been submitted, we are looking and we find them. Finally, they must all be compensated, let alone when covering the corresponding premium. From there on, for other expenditure relating to rehabilitation, damages in general, particularly in infrastructure projects, there must be a corresponding technical report. The respective municipality must consider the situation, gather whatever requests and help us to help him, and so that - as you said before - we can identify those reasons for which we are calling for the aid, for the damage to be covered through the state budget, under the approval - I repeat - of the European Commission. I have nothing more to say to you, because we are not yet ready, simply because we are now in this process. You have raised specific topics such as, for example, what the philosophy of ELGA is. Of course, the philosophy of ELGA is the logic of recompense. I, too, will not disagree with you whether at least one part of the premium in terms of ELGA's obligations on farmers could also be covered by state participation. However, I have told you that when the financial situation is such a thing, and when, let alone, it is necessary to review the Rules of Procedure, this is not the time. You also raised the big topic of fire extinguisher. As long as it is not our responsibility, I am simply saying it - it is not the inhabitants of the regions who are not involved and who are not given the opportunity to relate to the forest, so we will have problems. In this case we urgently need the inhabitants of mountainous regions, the problem areas and the economic benefits of forest protection, for the simple reason that we do not experience, Mr President, the images where the forest is on fire in the mountains and the inhabitants of the countryside are looking at the sky to see whether the plane is coming or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u378	The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-12-S1-commons.u379	With the consent of the House at 13.16 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 13 May 2016 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work, parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
