ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] On behalf of all, the Bureau wishes many years to celebrate colleagues and colleagues, now and again. We also wish for many years to the Secretary-General and Special Secretary-General, Mrs Gine, to all the workers and workers of the House, who are celebrating. And, of course, to children in the parliamentary report, if there are commemorators, and we all wish them many years together, in health. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Emergency provisions for the implementation of the budgetary and structural reforms agreement and other provisions'. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents by a majority decided at its meeting on 16 May 2016 to discuss the draft law in two meetings, on Saturday, 21 May 2016, at 10.00 p.m. and on Sunday, 22 May 2016, at 10.00 p.m., also until 18.00 p.m., when the debate will be concluded and the vote will begin. I propose that the draft law should become uniform in principle, on the articles, of the amendments as one section. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to me so that we do not start the proceedings afterwards. As far as I have been informed by the Services, the ministerial amendments have already been incorporated into the report. I am referring to those which were voted yesterday. I also propose that the debate should be organised in accordance with Rule 65(5) of the Rules of Procedure, following the speech by the rapporteurs and the special speakers, to take the floor from a single list of speakers, consisting of three full circles of speakers in proportion to the parliamentary power of the parties. Each cycle will include five MPs from SYRIZA, three MPs from New Democracy and one speaker from the other parties. Independent Members will be added one after the end of the second cycle, one after the end of the third cycle and the others in their order of registration if they wish to take the floor. Finally, the Members' speeches, if any, will be followed by the electronic system in turn. The electronic system will open as soon as the first SYRIZA rapporteur comes up and close as soon as the second rapporteur comes down from New Democracy. Speaking times will be in accordance with Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, namely the rapporteurs and special speakeres will have 15 minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives twelve minutes and the speakers seven minutes. This time may be adjusted according to the number of Members registered. Consider, without the Bureau having any information, that tomorrow from about 15.00 p.m. to 18.00 p.m. will be the 3rd day of the political leaders. So the useful time for everyone else is from the moment we're talking, until tomorrow at 15:00. Maybe 15:00' will change somehow, but it'll be around there roughly. Before we go to the bill, I have some announcements to this House. The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs, the Standing Committee on Production and Trade and the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice shall submit their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance ‘Emergency provisions for the implementation of the Agreement on budgetary objectives and structural reforms and other provisions’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u3	To finish the announcements, Mr. Loverdo. I'm making announcements. For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u4	I thought you were done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u5	I also have the following announcements to this House: The Foreign, Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Finance Ministers, as well as the Deputy Foreign and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction Ministers, submitted on 20-5-2016 a draft law: ‘Strengthening the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Azerbaijan on European Union matters’. The Foreign, Home and Administrative Reconstruction Ministers, Education, Research and Religious Affairs and Finance, as well as the Deputy Foreign and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction Ministers, submitted on 20-5-2016 a draft law: "Strengthening the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Georgia and the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Georgia's approach to the European Union". The Foreign, Home and Administrative Reconstruction Ministers, Education, Research and Religious Affairs and Finance, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Education, tabled a draft law on 20-05-2016: "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration of the Republic of Moldova on the Approximation of Moldova to the European Union". They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, is seeking permission from a short-day absence on 25 and 26 May 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u6	The House therefore approved the requested permission. In addition, MP Nikolaos - George Dendias seeks permission from a short-day absence from June 6 to 9, 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u7	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Before entering the process of speech, I would like to inform the House that Mr Loverdos, as a Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, has made a request for unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, when you were finished with the procedure before the announcements, I asked you to speak precisely about the procedure, not about the objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u9	That's more than that. I want to announce it - we are not actually going to go into the matter - so that colleagues know from now that you have objected, which is as follows: (a) Articles 184, 186, 188, 191, 192, 196, 198, 199, 201, 204, 204, 204 of the draft law in relation to Article 106 of the Constitution, (b) of Article 196(11) and (12) of the draft law in relation to Article 17(1) and (2) of the Constitution, and (c) of Article 233 of the draft law in relation to Article 78(4) and 79(4) of the Constitution. Here, Mr Loverdo, you have the floor before we enter the debate on the objection of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, I am speaking to the Bureau, but also to all colleagues. You have defined a procedure, which has by a majority been chosen. All right, the House works on the basis of the majority. But there is one issue, as we have seen from last weekend, which does not concern Parliament, but concerns the government. It intervenes in the debate, even with ministers who do not sign the draft law in question, not because the Minister exercises his rights under Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. intervenes at all times for four minutes, but as key speakers with the time of the ministers. This alters the procedure, causes the Bureau to be very strict with parliamentary representatives and, above all, Members of Parliament, but the procedure with the interventions of the Ministers is also overshadowed. If, Mr President, this is repeated, then we are telling you in advance - and I would like you to inform all your colleagues, because you will be voting for the step and others who have not heard what we say now - that if the ministers, who have not signed them, intervene, or those who have signed them, intervene beyond their four-minute speeches referred to in Rule 64, then the parliamentary representatives will also exercise their rights under Rules 17, 64 and 66 of the Rules of Procedure of this House. It will not be said by the President-in-Office that 'you will speak in your dentistry, Mr President. We'll answer the ministers. If the ministers want to protect what you have put in order to get the Chamber to the government in the right way, then all of us will follow it. If this process breaks, Mr President, last time - I do not know if you were here - since the Prime Minister spoke in an unanswered manner, in other words, if it goes on to repeat it, you must know that I, at least from the Democratic Assent, but I also believe other parliamentary representatives will claim their rights in the articles that I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, please, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u12	First of all, I would like to inform you, because Mr Loverdos is right, because today by the Government Secretariat, the list of ministers to speak is as follows: Mr Tsironis, Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Paradopoulos, Minister for Justice and Human Rights, Mr Papagelopoulos, Deputy Minister for Justice. At this point, Mr Paraskevi, I would like to ask you to speak one of the two. Mr. Papagelopoulos spoke yesterday. I don't think you both need it. Let's get the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u13	Good, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u14	I continue: Mr. Apostolos this afternoon and around 19.00 hours the Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotos. So for today, which you say, we will follow and say so from the outset to take it as a 'line' and the ones who succeed me in the seat of the President-in-Office. So what you have said will be avoided, so that we do not have what has happened, and it is at the expense of the Members of Parliament from all sides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, please, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Theochari, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u17	I would like to ask a question on a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u18	You have the floor, Mr Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u19	In the last debate, the Independent Members were given the opportunity to speak to all three circles. I'd like to ask...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u20	I announced it, Mr. Theochari. You weren't in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u21	I know, it's changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u22	Independents start from the second cycle and are in the third cycle, last after party colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u23	I do not want clarification, Mr President. The question is: why did this change from last time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u24	It didn't change. That's the way it was last time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u25	Last time we spoke both in the first and second cycles. In any case, if we need to talk in two circles, why not be the first and the second and be the second and the third?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u26	Mr Theocharis, first of all this happened last time and I know it because I opened the meeting. Secondly, it is on the basis of proportionality and that is why you are entering from the second cycle and the third cycle and then from those who are enrolled. Now, for who's going to be in the second or third circle, you're not too many, consult, to make it easier for us too. Don't make me now choose you or someone else to be in the second or third circle. Don't waste any more time now, because the essence is to hear the arguments and the counter-projects about the bill. We therefore come to the point of the procedure with regard to the objection of constitutionality tabled by Mr Loverdos and from what he has informed me - grossly, Mr Loverdos - that I am not mistaken - are the two articles in question, the 'cutter' and the supranational fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u27	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u28	In other words, these two are mainly constitutional issues. I say this for formal reasons, for the Members who will speak, to have it in mind. They have the right to speak, Mr Loverdos, on the part of SYRIZA, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or the Parliamentary Representatives of the other parties or colleagues appointed by the parties - we will not entirely follow the press - and, of course, the Minister responsible closes with a five-minute speech as a counter to Mr Loverdos's objection. I shall ask each party - because I do not have a list - who will be the speaker. From New Democracy, I know it's Mr. Fortsakis. The other parties will stand up for whoever he is and tell me his name.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Lappas is from us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u31	Indeed, Mr President, although the articles which I have mentioned are quite a few, two are the issues, ladies and gentlemen, so that there is no misunderstanding. One issue concerns this supercompany, and it is the first two points of the objection we have put forward and the second concerns what was called a 'cutter'. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, those of us who have lived and knew the facts about 'Varoufakiad' last year, and those who have been aware of it, in October, of 'Tsakateiad', that, instead of closing this assessment, this delay is delaying, rather than bringing relief to the country and to the citizens, is giving us more and more billions every month, since we understood the draft law last Wednesday, that the Minister of Finance and his colleagues returned to the country as 'Sans-Culottes' - but not in the French sense - we are here and are called to vote. And the argument is addressed to the majority Members, because the minority, the opposition, was expressed in every respect in the committee: we are called upon to vote, ladies and gentlemen, on Rule 184 et seq. Note that in relation to the paper, read by Mr Kaklamanis, it is the first issue. I have tried to get out of many of the provisions, many of the articles concerning the supra-company, those which assemble the problem. So we are being brought here by a company, which, according to the ambitions of the government, wants to be outside public and non-legislative entities governed by public law and the relevant law. In response to these serological issues, the Directorate for Scientific Studies, I do not deal with titles. It brings us, therefore, a company, which gives all the property of the Greek State and in a way that we understood in committee that the government had not fully realised, but realised it in the minute, under the pressure of the Anti-Policy. So it goes through all this property in a supercompany whose management is the one - Greek and lenders, lenders and Greek - and in which the powers of the Supervisory Board are - it defines everything - with the agreement of the lenders, the ESM and the Commission of the European Union. And all this for ninety years without guarantees! The guarantees which arise, as the government wants to tell us, from the objectives - Article 185 first is distorted by the subsequent provisions of the same chapter of the draft law. And, ladies and gentlemen, there is no control of the House! The House even ratifys the concessions. Here all this money is being used to manage the property of the Greek public, it is a shame that there is no intervention of Parliament, but only on minor issues, such as reports submitted here and which the committee responsible can discuss. This lack of guarantees, the major guarantee of parliamentary control, but also of others, creates problems, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Article 106 of the Constitution which protects, such as science and case law, the public interest. You're against the public interest! In particular, Mr President, in paragraphs 11 and 12 of Article 196 rights of third parties to this property are necessarily expropriated by a decision of the Minister of Finance. This is a requisition or confiscation. It is not in accordance with Article 17 of the Constitution, which protects property. And that's the one point of objection. The second is the cutter. Colleagues, look at Article 78(4) and Article 79(4) of the Constitution! Colleagues, a change in the budget cannot be done by legislative powers. It can only be done by law. In particular, when it comes to pensions, it is expressly laid down by the relevant provisions of the Constitution mentioned above. Ladies and gentlemen, what did you say? What did you say against the opposition, but also until Thursday? What were you talking about? You were going to increase the C.E.R.D. and take out HIS. What did you do? You are now increasing the ENPIA and you have abolished - taking 900 million - the ESS. That's what you did! And because you want to baptize the fish meat and because you want to cover all these negative effects on the Greek people and the country of your policies, you have developed a verbatimism that does not at all correspond to the words made by the draft law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing in a phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u32	You need to finish it, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u33	They called us traitors. "No" says official SYRIZA, his parliament and media MPs say. The Prime Minister, as leader of the then minor opposition, from this Chamber, has called then Prime Minister Pinochet and Tsolacoglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Loverdo, please, finish it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u35	You, ladies and gentlemen, today with the provisions of Articles 184 et seq., with this supra-company, are you feeling well in your seat?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u36	All right, all right, all right, all right, all right,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u37	With the sale of public property, on the basis of this provision, which we denounce, do you feel well as members of the National Representation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Loverdo, please! I've given you two more minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, we are calling for the objection of unconstitutionality to be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u40	Good. As a rival from the SYRIZA party, the 'ordinary suspect', Mr. Lappas has the floor. Please, be quiet, so we can get this over with as soon as we can get into the bill. Here, Mr. Lappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, once again, purely political arguments and political objections - permissible - are made by way of reference to the Constitution. I think there are political objections and hard criticisms, but not all of them can be traced back to the Constitution. And I would remind Mr. Loverdos, who is also a professor of Constitutional Law, that any objection of constitutionality must cumulatively meet three basic conditions arising from the Constitution's character as a supreme rule of law: it is the strictness of the Constitution, it is the principle of separation of functions and it is the fact that the Constitution is relied on as a fundamental law. The objections raised are, of course, objections to the functioning of the House and, in this sense, an attempt is actually being made to control preventive measures - since the repressive is only made by the courts - and, of course, politicians, since they are made by a political body such as the House. In this context, therefore, I would reply as follows: With regard to the fund, Mr President, two objections - arguments are essentially raised in so-called constitutional problems: firstly, the duration of the company which is set up and, secondly, the fact that the entire property of the public is transferred to this company. No falseer. As far as the ninety-nine years are concerned, the relevant ministers in each of the two days of the debate in the committees have been in detail at all levels, in depth and throughout the area, arguing why this is being done. It is because we do not want to have a short-sighted, short-sighted policy, but a long-term plan, leading to the growth of the economy. That is the main argument. It could be said that it is not right, that it is incomplete or not documented. That is a political argument. It cannot be a constitutional argument. Secondly, does all the public's property really go to this fund? No, of course not. It's not going. It is quite clear, Mr President. We say ad hoc, especially who's going to the fund. We cannot say on an equal and destructive ground that everything goes to the company. Who's always? After the provision of the law is laid down. You have an objection to that, I understand. Say in an equal manner that everything goes to the company is not correct, because it contradicts the text of the law itself. And we're going further. I don't want to say any more about the fund. I think the Minister responsible will tell you. Mr Loverdo, as far as the cutter is concerned, you would be right on only one condition. What condition? If we were to implement a new budget here - Mr Stavros is aware of what I am talking about - and not of what I am talking about. We have no new budget, so you would be right about the effects on wages and pensions. We have implemented the existing budget, otherwise, under other conditions. We do not have a new budget. It emerges explicitly from the text of the law. So there's no question of constitutionality, Mr. Loverdos. To conclude, I do not deny that, when we have a debate in Parliament and are talking about the Constitution, we can argue on legal matters and terms as well. We are not talking about the Constitution, which was a simple conceptual and grammar wording. Now, after the war, the constitutions are interpreted with reference to socio-political reality. In this you may be right. For the identity of the constitutional reason, however, none of the arguments you have put forward do prove that he has the Constitution in this respect. One final comment, Mr President. Mr Loverdos, you know that in legal and, in particular, in constitutional science, it has been stressed in writing and in case of case law - not to mention the decisions of the Council of State, which are more than twenty since 2010 - that, when the government or the relevant Ministry of Finance argues - and yours at that time - on matters of the protection of the public interest and the rectification of an economic imbalance, nothing affects the Constitution, whatever rules it introduces in this direction. Besides...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u42	Easy, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u43	I have it in front of me, Mr. Stakoura. I'll be very happy to present it. And I shall end, Mr President, since I have no more time. I would say something that should be relevant to all the Members of the Greek Parliament, Mr President: the bid for objections to constitutionality, an inflationary constitutionality, that is, rather less, weakens the effectiveness of their own constitution. We will slowly reach any serious law, which regulates economic or political issues of society, we will continue to have a objection of constitutionality. The opposition itself will slowly be weakened, but the Constitution itself will be weakened. More importantly, while there should be a dialogue of political ideas, programmes and perceptions here, we are making precisely our political arguments into a constitutional problem, so that we weaken the very operation of Parliament, which is an area for the movement and intercourse of our ideas and programmes. We must insist on this and not on unconstitutionalism. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u44	Mr Theodores Fortsakis has been appointed on behalf of the New Democracy as speaker on this issue. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in support of what Mr Loverd said very well, I would like to say a few words about the famous 'Participation and Property Company' and then about the so-called 'cut-off'. I would remind you that, for the Company of Participants and Property, almost all of the public property, HIDE, Financial Stability Fund with the banking system of the country, public schools, hospitals, etc., public undertakings, energy network, transport, airports, ports is part of a holding company, which belongs to the public sector, but expressly does not belong to the wider public sector and is managed essentially by foreigners, since the three are defined on the basis of foreign approval, and the two are specified directly by foreigners. And it always takes four to agree on a decision. In fact here we are in a situation where the Greek state has lost a very large part of its public and national assets for many years, as well as the management of public revenues from the state budget. These provisions, ladies and gentlemen, constitute a global originality and do not even appear in the most extreme colonial systems. The violation of our Constitution is flagrant and I shall refer to specific articles not to be considered as having a general debate. The alienation of the state by a large part of its property and its management by foreigners affects people's sovereignty and national sovereignty and brings a brutal blow to the essence of the functioning of the democratic culture. I am referring to the three coordinate powers. Executive power, government. Article 82 of the Constitution stipulates that the government defines and directs the general policy of the country and the Prime Minister coordinates its unity and public services in general. What government and what Prime Minister will perform what constitutional role when they do not have the control and management of the state's finances? Without financial instruments it does not mean governance of the country. Legislative power is affected, the House in particular is also affected in the exercise of its legislative function, but also in the exercise of parliamentary control. For the legislative work, Article 70(1) of the Constitution stipulates that the Parliament is carrying out its work on a presumption of competence. If the legislative work excludes the public services and finances, the work of the House becomes obsolete. The House has the constitutional obligation to carry out this work itself, without being allowed to alienate from it even if it wishes to do so. The management of public property also includes the power to transfer its objects, forming part of the more general state rule, which is unresponsible for transfer, is unreserved and irresponsible. This project now takes over, according to the bill, by the new company. Parliament's constitutional control is affected, in particular Article 70(6), which provides that Parliament exercises its parliamentary control, as laid down in its Rules of Procedure. Where such control removes the property of the State and its departments, the check shall become a letter of death. The House must not be alienated from the parliamentary control which has been delegated to it in constitutional terms. I note that, as has already been pointed out, the new company is not accountable to the House. Thirdly, the judicial authority is affected. Article 98(1) cf. (a) The Constitution provides that the powers of the Court of Auditors include the control of contracts of high economic value in which a counterparty is a public or other legal person treated as such. This check is foreseen - look out! - on individual contracts and not on category of contracts, contrary to what the draft law provides. The constitutional provision ensuring the legality and transparency of public procurement is thus violated. In addition to the three functions - executive, legislative and judicial - the total realisation of popular sovereignty, as provided for in Article 1 of the Constitution, is severely affected, since the management of public property and services is entrusted to a private body governed and controlled by persons whose choice evads the power of the government and the parliament. Moreover, since the new company is excluded from the public or wider public sector, while it holds a huge part of the public sector's assets, the concept of the public sector, as well as of the wider public sector, is actually being dismantled, which are, however, constitutionally regulated in Article 14(9) and Article 103(7) and (8) of the Constitution. Therefore, the exercise of executive power, the exercise of legislative and parliamentary control is now undertaken by a public limited company under foreign administration irresponsible without the Court of Auditors' judicial control. Finally, the distinction between the powers laid down in Article 26 and a large part of popular sovereignty, which enshrined in Article 1 of the Constitution, is being overthrown, thus overthrowing the overall structure of the Constitution against the destruction of the democratic principle of our culture and national sovereignty, since for all now foreigners have decided for a century. I, as a member of this House, feel ashamed to take part in such a debate and I feel ashamed to see that the Greek Parliament will vote for such provisions. I would like to close in less than a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u46	But you need to finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u47	Thirty seconds. Speaking of the famous cutter - Mr Loverd also said so - three are the provisions of the constitution that are brutally offended. It is Article 78 on taxation which provides that a formal tax law is absolutely needed. It is Article 79(4) of the Constitution - please read it, because it has obviously not been adequately read by many colleagues - which expressis verbis says that, when there is a derogation from the budget, Parliament needs to pass a special law. Read the article. It's quite clear. So this is not even a debate. And, thirdly, it is Article 43(2) which provides that where there is authorisation, it must be clear, specific and defined in accordance with the case-law of the courts or tribunals. So with facts uncertain, which are under sects. We do not know when they will be paid, we are severely offended, trust in good faith, but legal certainty, and we therefore have flagrant unconstitutionalism. These ladies and gentlemen are very serious issues, too big.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Fortsakis, please, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u49	I shall conclude, Mr President, in less than a second. It is really a shame for our Parliament to have reached the point of alienating our state from its property and being held abroad for a century. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u50	Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Ilias Kasiaris, has the floor on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u51	This piece of legislation is manifestly illegal, unconstitutional and completely undeniable, because it commits Greece's national property for more than a century. The whole country's national property goes into foreign hands. Foreigners from here on will completely control electricity, communications, water, ports, airports, transport, roads, natural gas, oil, all the property, all the wealthy sources of Greece. With the notorious 'New Fund for Discrimination' all this is being put under foreign administration. It is expressly stated in this disgraceful piece of legislation that the chairman of the board of directors of this fund will be appointed by the Commission, likewise by one of its members. But for the rest of the three Member States there must be the signature of the Commission, namely the foreign loan sharks, which have broken into our own country. For sale, OTE is assigned, i.e. communications, EYDAP, i.e. the water of the Greek people, energy, the most neural services and companies, i.e. PPC for electricity, ELPE for oil, DEPA and DESFA, the ports of the country. After Piraeus sold to Chinese, the Agency of Ports of Thessaloniki is sold, dozens of tourist ports and marinas even in Turks. We are talking about a clear loss of the national sovereignty of Greece. We are talking about total transformation of the country into a lousy protectorate of foreign forces. That's why this bill is not just unconstitutional. It's just as disgusting, illegal and ethno-progressive. Greece's transport networks, "TRAINOSE", "Egnatia Road", all the airports of the country, "Eleftherios Venizelos" and the fourteen regional airports sold first by the New Democracy and today by SYRIZA with the ANELs complete this betrayal. The Germans take it all. The airport of Thessaloniki, Corfu, Kefalonia, Zakynthos, Acid, Kavala, Rhodes, Samos, Kos, Mytilini, Mykonos, Santorini, Skiathos and another twenty-three airports are then assigned, sold in foreign hands. The same is done for infinite areas, for public and Olympic real estate. First, through the Financial Stability Fund, the shares of the Greek banks are transferred. The control of Greece's banking system goes completely and 100% on foreign hands and the country becomes an economic protector. This bill is above all unconstitutional, and we have repeated it. Only Golden Dawn has the courage to say these truths, because according to the Greek Constitution, all citizens are equal to the law. In taxation, however, on the basis of all these legislation, there are some citizens more equal than others, and these are MPs, because a free trader, a producer, a farmer, one of those who work in Greece and not the deaf people of the public, is obliged - these figures I have submitted and come from 'TAXIS' and are not questioned - to pay 243% more tax than a Member pays. This is literally an abortion of unconstitutionality, as are all the new taxes included in this bill. They eliminate the market, from I.C., to fuel, to coffee and beer and, of course, to HIS. You have become government by saying that you will abolish HISBIA and double it. This is the punctuality and fraud that SYRIZA has brought to the political life of the country. The biggest crime, however, is that all this money, which will come out of the sweat and blood of the Greek people, will also be passed on to foreign hands through the new self-interested Income Secretariat, which will gather all the money and be controlled by foreigners. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] It is unconstitutional, because by the referendum last July, you called on the Greek people to say 'no', you are making the biggest prick in Greece's modern political life. The people said 'no' to the memoranda, 'no' to subjection. What did you do? Less than a year later, you bring us seven and a half thousand pages of new memorandum. Inside a CD you bring us the sale of all Greece! I am, of course, closing down with the famous cutter, an unconstitutional and illegal orgyn, which will be permanent and not temporary, and which abolishes the Parliament and the National Representation. You say we fascists of the Golden Dawn. Greater fascism than you have imposed on Greece's political things has never been in Transmolitanism! Of course, I will say that the cut doesn't exclude national defense. It does not exclude the defence of the Greeks against the expansion of the Turks. Except only one, Bobola and the pimps. The cutter specifically says: ‘Tax resulting from claims by individuals from the performance of public contracts are excluded’. I mean, you're cutting off the money attributed to the national defense, but you're not cutting the money from your pimps. Fornicators of these pimps and foreign loan sharks have become all you rulers and you bring us seven and a half pages of memorial, a misery within a CD, night!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u52	Why are you shouting?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u53	The sale of Greece takes place in a CD!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u54	Did anyone tell you we're not listening?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u55	We're returning it to you! To end this disgrace at last!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u56	This is an insult to democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u57	I will shout as much as this country sells and one day there will come a truly patriotic party, which will complete, close and end this sale.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Famelle, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u59	You're sold! We're denounced for the sale of our country!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u60	You don't have the floor. Turn off the microphone. Mr. Cassidy no longer has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u61	You're too late, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u62	And I think that it's disparate to do what you're doing and I'm pleading you to the classroom. To be written in the Minutes. You do this at a time when we are being watched from the upper west theory of fifty students from the Kalamaria Municipal School, whom we welcome, to theatre!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u63	This is where you sell Greece! You're selling Greece out!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u64	You don't have the floor. Sit down! [[Noise from the Golden Dawn wing]] Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u65	Sold! You're selling Greece!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u66	Those little kids, you're out of your mind! These are slaves!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u67	That's the new generation we're fighting for!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u68	You've been selling Greece for a hundred years!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u69	Sit down immediately. You don't have the floor. Silence! Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Pafilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u70	Once again, Mr President - and I am speaking to everyone - this hypocrisy in the Chamber on the Constitution. Who defines constitutionality and unconstitutionality? The majority of the House, yes or no? Isn't that right? Mr. Lappa, you, the ones who were savage...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u71	I'm not shoved at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u72	So tell us now, where are you in the government, of what you denounced as unconstitutional what you abolished? Tell us one of what you had denounced as unconstitutional, and you put us in and voted here all the previous time, at almost every meeting, tell us now that you are in the government - to tell the ministers - which of what you said is unconstitutional you have abolished. Secondly, for the other place, where Mr. Loverdos was a rapporteur and said about the rest, your own cut was a constitutional one? Constitutional, huh? The fact that you give the European Union the overall right to decide and control budgets and everything else is constitutional? Is that unconstitutional? To be clear, we say and claim that the urban constitution is so made as a tire, that each government can interpret it as it wants, and we actually know what interests it protects. He doesn't protect what he writes, it's general proclamations. This is seen by the policy itself. Although we are saying this, we support the objection of unconstitutionalism, as we have done before, but we cannot tolerate this hypocrisy and the Greek people must not tolerate this hypocrisy. Because what's going on today? It's just that the roles have changed. Now SYRIZA defends constitutionality in a barbaric anti-population policy literally, and the others who implemented the same policy and opened the way and voted for all these laws, appear defenders of the Constitution and of popular rights. We therefore support this objection to unconstitutionalism, despite the reservations and everything that we say. As far as this infamous company is concerned, it commits for ninety years and specifically, it is open for everything. I ask you a question, not in substance, because they have also been delivered with other laws before. All governments and the junta and everyone have handed over unscrupulous property to the Greek and foreign monopolies and as regards those who now represent the ultrapatriots, to remember what people have done to those who support, what they have delivered after the Civil War in particular, which has been this any capitalist development in Greece. However, I ask you that we do so for ninety years: If you are accusing - and so of course you are - the government, the previous government, the other parties that they are selling and want to sell everything, if you leave the government tomorrow, do you not have them loose hands to do so, yes or no? The second issue. Don't tell us now that you're going for another development model. I'm telling you, to prepare Mr. Chakaloto as well when he's talking. So, what are you telling us now? That the European Union, the one you are saying, has neoliberalism and so on, and, of course, you are serving with absolute consistency, will this Council accept any other, even urban reform, or any other economic reform outside the one it applies? Really, who are you kidding? You're putting them in charge, and you're saying you're going to make a new philosophical development policy. Anti-linguistic and barbaric will be for the workers. We therefore disagree on this point. We support and tell the Greek people that they must fight and overthrow this system as a whole, because the government and the former do nothing other than serve raw, cynically, the interests of capital. As far as taxation is concerned - because there are also crowns here across the street - I have not heard a word about what the Constitution says - which you support - that everyone pays according to their tax capacity. So tell us how much did the shipowners pay? I'm addressing all the wings. I don't want to name it. For they do not talk about the big chapter, those who are'representing' and who only raise the question of Members. That is why we are in the position that it must be the same tax. Why don't they talk about capitalists and business groups? Why don't they talk about the fifty-seven tax exemptions the shipowners have had all these years? Why don't they say'repeal'? Hypocrisy! Literally hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. From the river, who's gonna talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u74	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u75	You have the floor, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, not only the eleven articles on which we are now discussing the objection of their constitutionality or their unconstitutionality, but also the whole of the articles - from 184 to 214 which define the creation of this super-constitution - have a great and strong problem of unconstitutionality. Why? Because they confer decisive competence on a Minister, the Minister of Finance, the Greek Government, to an overseer for any sale or privatisation of public property. There is a contradiction here. Mr Tsakalotos also told us yesterday that as the sole shareholder of the general assembly, representing the Greek State in this superstate, but which, incidentally, will be run with strong, decisive reason by the institutions, will give the approval or not of the fund's strategic plan. However, the Minister did not tell us that for the manner of privatisation, the choice of the public property to be privatised, whether there would be concessions and what would be the price, the Minister, the Greek Government would not have any decisive powers. Now, in relation to the cutter, and if we think, of course, that, for ninety years, this sovereign right of the Greek Government will be conferred on a fund - which we will not even participate as a Greek society, as a government, as a Greek state - then it is very serious, ladies and gentlemen. The way in which the articles of the draft law set out lead us to conclude that it is simply a question of establishing a balancing mechanism for possible divergences, but without specific measures. This, then, presents additional constitutional problems. If an authorisation under this mechanism is provided for the adoption of regulatory acts by the administration, the conditions laid down in Article 43(2) of the Constitution relating to the specific nature of the authorisation and compliance with its limits shall in any case be required. In accordance with the express wording of the Constitution, such authorisation may be granted only in order to regulate matters of local interest, technical or detailed. With regard to tax measures, Article 78 of the Constitution, paragraph 1 and 4 is also required. While it requires a formal tax law - only by law - can this be done to determine the subject and the subject of taxation, as well as the tax rate, as well as any exemptions. In other words, they are powers, responsibilities and decisive powers that leave the hands of the Greek State to go to automatic, through Brussels, at the expense of the wages and pensions of Greek citizens. There's a peculiar timing coincidence. We are in 2016. By 2115 this superstition will suck off the assets of the Greek public that it judges and will divest them. That, ladies and gentlemen, in 2016, does not take us to 2115, but in 1898, when the country granted its monopolies and, for the first time, entered an economic commission from foreigners. And, as you can see, it has not lasted for a century and seventeen years, but you, the government of SYRIZA, intend this commission, this assignment of sovereign rights, to extend it until 2115. So, of course, we consider the objection to be valid and substantiated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u77	Understood, Mr. Comrade. On behalf of the Independent Greeks, Mr. Kokalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u78	This is a paradox, ladies and gentlemen: While the Greek Constitution is the highest piece of legislation, its interpretation often is a card. And it is a card because, unfortunately, they do not have a constitutional court, which is the only instrument to judge whether or not a provision is constitutional. An objection of unconstitutionality has been raised here, in accordance with Rule 100 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. In this objection of unconstitutionality, we respond with the objection of abuse of this right, Mr. Loverdos. You abusively object. You know why you're legal. It's abusive, because you don't legalize. Many provisions of your own bills have been judged constitutional.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u79	All of them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u80	I am not referring to the substance of the objections, because individual rights are not affected to their hard core.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u81	Not even one!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u82	In any case, however, we should be aware that only Greek justice is responsible for judging unconstitutionality or not. So subjecting this objection is above all abusive. It should therefore be rejected. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You're saying it's predictable. Yes, it is. [[Noise in the Chamber]] So reject this objection of unconstitutionality because it is unfounded. The hard rights of individual rights described in the objection shall not be affected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Red. Before the government speaks on behalf of the government, Mr. Paradoxopoulos, we are closing with...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u84	Mr. President, me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u85	Don't rush! All of you calm down in the Chamber. I said that we are closing down with the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u86	Forgive me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u87	Forgive me, Mr. Carras! Let's go!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u88	Forgive me, Mr President, but the issue that concerns us today is so crucial that we will also fall into some minor mistakes. I said last time that regardless of the case-law of the courts, when it comes to the issue of unconstitutional law being passed, Parliament has the sovereign power. We are therefore called upon today to decide whether or not these provisions are constitutional. Allow me to make a brief retrogression by taking the floor from Mr Amyras, who reminded us of the international financial control of 1897. I, too, reminded the Monetary Committee of the Marshall Plan. But then the country came out - and I refer to 1947 - of two national disasters, of the dishonest wars of 1897 and then of a world war. For God's sake! Did we get to this level, to dive into the public property? So let's go on to the issue of constitutionality or not. As far as the cutter is concerned, you will allow me to say that I put it in committee the first day before yesterday as a special speaker of the Centro Association. I said that an amendment to the budget is only made by law and not by a presiding decree. The constitutional provision is clear. I won't expand any further. However, I would like to talk about the issues of public property, which are also the most critical, because they lead the country to hostage, whether we want it or not. I will not dwell on the question of whether national sovereignty is limited or not. The point is, they lead the country to hostage. The view expressed by the Union of Centres is that the provisions are unconstitutional. And I'm coming to explain it. For, as the law comes, it says this: the forest land is excluded. Of course, we do not know what it is yet, since the same law tells us that forest maps will be ratified. It doesn't matter. It says something else: public spaces and out-of-transaction things. But the law, which packs the public property to transfer it, does not make clear to us. It has a flaw, and that is where unconstitutionalism comes from, in vain. Why am I saying this, Mr President? There is public property, there is the private property of the state, and I said that here yesterday in the Chamber as a special speaker. Does the law and the public property include? Yes, it does, because if we go to the list, we see a pacifist court, which is the state's operational services, that they will be transferred, the Athens Police Directorate on Alexandra Avenue, state service. These assets are therefore intended to serve a public purpose. Therefore, for the law to be constitutional, there should be explicit exceptions. As much as we have recently found the concept of PPPs, that we are building fire stations with management contracts, that we are building in collaboration with private individuals, that is constitutionality. And I'm going to one more specific, if you'll excuse me. Article 106 of the Constitution, cited by Mr Loverdos, does not only have the meaning of the purpose of the public interest. I will extend its interpretation and say that it has three words, the use of the resources of national wealth. Who are these? National property in general. Public property, if you like, public property. They are in there, too, and Greece has already been afflicted with public land. So since it is the utilization of the sources of national wealth, I ask: The use of the sources of national wealth is being put for freedom, well-being of the Greeks or for the service of a debt that will stir us the rest of our lives? If we accept, then, that the use of national wealth is to serve public debt, we are leaving the Constitution, Mr President. Because the public debt is economical, it has a financial price, while the freedom of the Greeks, the well-being of the Greeks, welfare is served by public and private property of the state. Where are those going? They're going to a company run outside. We won't have a reason. I will not raise issues - have they been raised - whether the House should or should not have a decisive role, but will it be a property that can be managed? Can it be sold out to repay a public debt? No, you shouldn't. Find other ways to repay this debt, but if it is delivered to a hostage entire property, the lenders will not only stand on the list or the elements that we will deliver. They will go further and claim everything. So, as freedom is shattered in us, the well-being of the Greeks, and the prospect of the nation, we wholeheartedly support the objection of unconstitutionality, even if we see that the majority will go to its rejection. We want our opinion to be recorded, because it is historic that we are at the moment, Mr President, and all our views must be heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u89	All right, we close with the government's position, the Minister of Justice, Mr. Paradise. The Minister has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, brief introduction of seconds: The difference between politicians in the government and politicians in the opposition or the theorists, academics or cinemas is that when the rulings are criticised, they must have a ready alternative. In this case, I think it has been very well explained by Mr Tsakalotos that the alternative, which seemed to be the alternative to those who are currently imported, would be either Grexit or the very precise acceptance, as has been done for many years now, of the proposals which have been made outside. [[Noise from the wings of the New Democracy and the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Therefore, regulation is the composition of those who result from the country's international position and its national needs and is the best possible. I come to the issues of constitutionality. In particular, they concern the mechanism, the so-called cut-off mechanism and the fund. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please listen to me. As far as the so-called cut-off is concerned, the proposed budgetary adjustment mechanism for the general government's budget is not concerned, it is not only about budget implementation. In other words, with the mechanism the budget is not changed, it still has the breakdowns and forecasts that had been set. What is changing is the way in which it is managed and the rate of disposal in view of the needs, which indeed affect its implementation. But the implementation of the budget is purely administrative. As far as paragraph 4 of Article 79 of the Constitution is concerned, it stipulates that if it is impossible to manage revenue - the cost of the budget is paid by law at any time. The provision, however, relates to the completely marginal cases where it is impossible to use a budget which has been voted on and the basis of implementation is different. This is not why the cutter has no problem with the Constitution. I would like to say a few words about the specific reference to taxation and pensions in relation to the provision of the mechanism of this particular cut. Of course, Article 74 states, first of all, that the subject of taxation, exemptions, etc., and the granting of pensions cannot be subject to legislative authorisation. But then Article 79(5) expressly states that there is an exception to this. I read the article: ‘Exceptively may be imposed by means of delegated laws, frameworks for compensatory or countervailing levies or duties, and economic measures may be taken in the context of the country's international relations with economic organisations or measures aimed at ensuring the country's currency position. And, of course, that is clearly what this is all about. Article 78(5) is an exception and, as a special rule, Article 78(4) prevails in general. And I have to say I'm not saying anything original. First I use the thoughts of Professor Giannis Drossos - I have submitted his opinion in the Minutes - but they have also been developed by other professors in an unsuspecting time, Mr. Finokaliotis, as in the same development there is the book of Professor Fortsakis and Lecturer Savvaidou, where he expressly refers to Tax Law (fourth edition of 2013, page 6) that an explicit exception is introduced from the constitutional rule of the requirement of a formal tax law, provided that the conditions of 78, paragraph 5 are met, and Mr. Pararas says so. I am going as fast as possible on the subject of the fund. The characteristic in the case of the fund is that the public property does not fall within the scope of public policy. Specifically, the exceptions to the scope of the fund are defined. These exceptions became things out of transaction. Non-transaction goods are not vague, the reference to non-transactions is not vague because it refers to the article in the 966 Civil Code, which defines precisely what they are, what they are and in addition to things outside of a public transaction defined by the saints, the Ramsar regions, the NATURA areas, etc. Therefore, at least the major objection has no force, is unfounded. Finally, in the other arguments, which seem strange and I would say paradoxical, not to go into the parliamentary process of divestments and privatizations based on the operation of the fund, I must remind you at this point that privatizations are not done by law. I would say that the involvement of Parliament or the involvement of Parliament under privatisation contracts does not fall within the Parliament's statutory main task under the Constitution. The work of the House is primarily regulatory. The conclusion of a contract is an individual administrative act. It does not fall within the Constitution normally, but, of course, in cases where there are major issues, sanctions have been introduced for these conventions, which, of course, also creates certain legal, operational problems. I therefore think that the provisions of the fund, whose reports are of course discussed in the House and their decisions are taken thanks to the Minister and with the participation of the Minister, do not raise any question of constitutionality at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Loverdo, what do you want for?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u93	There is a question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u94	Now will you answer the Minister? Not provided for in the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u95	In Article 68(1)...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Loverdos, it's not provided for by the procedure and the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u97	It's not a dentistry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u98	I give you the floor for a minute to record what you want to say and we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u99	Minister, Rule 68(1) of the Rules of Procedure prohibits you from rendering to a speaker other than what he has said. I, Mr President, said one thing in my objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u100	Finish, Mr. Loverdo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u101	One thing I said, ladies and gentlemen. Article 79(4) provides: ‘If, for any reason, the administration of revenue and expenditure is impossible, it shall be carried out on the basis of the budget on the basis of a special law at any time’. What are you saying, Minister, that you would be every word of the Constitution? You must be ashamed of yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u102	We're done. The article you referred to is a personal matter. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure on the issue of constitutionality has been completed. Please, accepting the objection of unconstitutionalism to rise. [[Responding to the objection]] Apparently the fewer were raised. The required number of MPs from the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament did not arise. The objection of unconstitutionality is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed normally with the procedure. I would ask that the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Konstantinos Spartinos, should reach Stepma. Happy birthday, Mr. Comrade. You have the floor for 15 minutes. And you're asking everyone to keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President, for your wishes. Ladies and gentlemen, it is regrettable that, after two days of exhausting discussion in committees, the opposition is finally continuing the tactical process with which it began. Tactical, which is nothing but proof of the lack of counter-proposal, lack of plan, lack of prospect. And because all of this is missing, they use the last thing that remains: the selective reading and the twisting presentation of the points of the draft law on the creation of impressions. I will repeat something I asked yesterday in the committee debate: the New Democracy, PASOK and Potami, which voted in August 2015 for the agreement, may not then - as they say - have voted against all the concrete measures that the Government has taken so far, but have voted for total reductions of 3% on Gross National Product. Today we are taking measures of the last 1%. What are the completely different measures that they propose to replace our own? Do they not consider that they have the political and moral responsibility to do so? Yesterday, the new Republic's rapporteur, Mr Stagars, said that the New Democracy's vote on airport privatisation was their counter-proposal. But does she, in itself, cover the measures required for 1% of GDP? Apparently not. If it was like this...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u104	Aren't the privatizations at 1%?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u105	So you said yesterday, 'we are advocating this'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u106	That's self-evident.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u107	If that were the case, they would have made their mark that the measures proposed by the government are far more than 1% along with all the other measures proposed. They vote, not as a counter-proposal for 1%, but because these are their own privatisations, which inherited us and which they feel have an obligation to be consistent. However, there is still one more thing missing: the elementary modesty, not to say another expression, which should distinguish the executives and the so-called Officerial Response, as well as the PASOK, who so easily forget the achievements of their last government. For this is a success for the rise in unemployment to 27%, the fall in GDP by 25% and the EUR 63 000 000, which is simply the height of their government after the reintegration. But what is their real misery? They see that this government is going beyond the obstacles that exist and those which the institutions have tried to put with their disagreements and the others that the internal troika has put on. But they are constantly disgusting. You see, they may try to question the government. But what about EUROSTAT and the Commission and the OECD? It is not easy to take advantage of the fact that the economy has done better than predicted and anticipated by them, that there is a dynamic recovery and, above all, that we are closer than ever to a debt settlement, which will allow what the Minister of Finance yesterday called a 'clean runway' for citizens and investors. We, ladies and gentlemen, are choosing a clear path based on the fact that we are doing exactly what we agreed, both with the institutions in August and with society in September 2015. We're not going back. There will be no more measures than 1 euro. But let us see how this government chooses the measures for this 1% of GDP. The increase in the VAT rate by one unit on the 23% scale is an option to prevent the increase in energy and water VAT from 13% to 23%, as the institutions were persistently demanding. In addition, this increase is less burdened by the popular family basket, with the products included in the one unit increase at the rate of 13%, The overall option that has been made relates to the small increase in many indirect taxes to divide the burden. In addition, there was an attempt to select several branches with significant profit margins in order to be able to absorb all or a large part of the increases. However, the plan, which relates both to the use of natural gas and to the abolition of 3% of the tax on beer sold inside the beer. The positions on this issue at the hearing of the bodies have shown in the most glaring way, who are charged - the oligopolistic beer groups - and who are lightened - small beer brewers throughout the region - by this regulation. Other taxes such as 5% extra tax on gambling, the taxation of companies involved in the management of funds, as well as of companies, are proposed in the same logic. On the other hand, it attempts to rationalise the registration fees for cars for private individuals. Furthermore, the ENVY will not only increase, because the total amount remains the same, i.e. EUR 2.65 billion, but for the vast majority of taxpayers whether it will remain stable or even decrease. This is due to the fact that the government has negotiated hard to transfer the cost of the relevant decision of the Council of State, about EUR 300 million in large and very large assets. But there are other institutional arrangements in this draft law, some of which have arisen from the way in which the financial and public administrations have managed all these years New Democracy and the PASOK. The Independent Public Revenue Authority is nothing but the need that both PASOK and the New Democracy created with the creative accounts applied to the country's long-term governance intervals, with which they have put the country in the euro area, as well as the ones that in recent years before the crisis have deeply concealed the deficitd budget executions, as well as the removal from political choices as to which taxpayer will be controlled and who will not. Without this confiscated history, this independent authority could be superfluous. Its institutional independence will not, however, lead to it being outside the narrow core of the state, since it is not intended to have legal personality and will be subject to parliamentary scrutiny. Decisions on the progressiveity of the tax system, the level of rates, the scope of the tax base and measures to combat tax evasion remain the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. Red loans are another issue which one cannot and must not forget who has responsibility and what status and what criteria these banks have given. Their regulation today succeeds in protecting the sale to already institutionalised non-banking institutions of all the red loans regardless of category, which have a guarantee at first residence with an objective value of up to EUR 140,000 without an additional income criterion until 2018. This is how protection covers 94% of all red first home loans. As regards non-banking institutions to manage these loans, their operating framework is particularly stringent in the light of the protection of the borrower. There will be no substantial difference with the banks. The terms of the loan will not deteriorate. The Code of Conduct of banks, reasonable living costs, etc. will be respected. In addition, there will be a framework for the support of borrowers with the thirty information and support centres of borrowers established, as well as for the activation of the Government Council and the Private Debt Management Special Secretariat. But let us see what is also provided for in the new fund, the Greek Participation and Property Company. For every action taken by the Fund the final decision is taken by its general assembly, i.e. the Greek State with the Minister of Finance. There is nothing to be sold out, on the contrary it comes back to state control and the TIADE which is part of it, contrary to how it had been structured in the former regime. The Supervisory Board consists of 3/5 choices of the Greek Government, 2/5 choices from European institutions with a mutual veto right and for the selection of any member of the Governing Board by the Supervisory Board are required in 4/5 consent of its members. No one will, therefore, designate the administration of the fund without ultimately approving the substance of the Greek State. The Minister for Finance is the one who approves the fund's investment policy and actions, including privatisations, whose mandatory stops on the GIDE list. New Democracy and PASOK, because they were baptising their privatizations, today they do not want to understand that exploitation is not necessarily the same as privatisation. I shall mention other institutional arrangements. For forest maps, the completion and ratification of forest maps and the settlement of objections are attempted after decades. But even there, opposition objects, and it is well known - even bodies that disagree with the draft law - that even so far 60% of their training has not been completed and that 1% with 2% of the forest maps have not been posted, as well as that of the customer state and the institutional framework that was in place. Another institutional change is the Public Authority of Ports and the Regulatory Authority of Ports, which are essential for maintaining control by the state of the ports operating and managing framework, in proportion to the port autories which are present throughout Europe and which so far have not existed in Greece. The public authority shall, in particular, constitute a public body with administrative and financial responsibilities entrusted with the exercise of the administrative powers and responsibilities which are deducted from port bodies due to the privatisation contracts in cooperation with the Regulatory Authority and the Secretariat-General of Ports, Port Policy and Maritime Investment. The government has also achieved this in the way the issue has been negotiated. The success of the government is also the maintenance of IPTO under public control, putting an end to the full privatisation scenarios. It also finished the small PPC project, which was being launched but did not have time to implement New Democracy and PASOK. There are also many other important regulations, such as the definition of the farmer's profession, the release of the sale of only 13% of the MUSYFAs against all that the institutions required, the gradual expansion of the possibility of recruitment to the public from rule one to five to four, and then one to three, the improvement and the materialisation of the provisions relating to 'underlying', the establishment of a General Secretariat for Digital Policy which will be directly supervised by the Prime Minister. Two words about the mechanism. As far as the automatic correction mechanism is concerned, it is obviously not a new memorandum. It will only be implemented if Greece fails to achieve the primary surplus targets provided for in the summer agreement. It is a compromise, which has arisen mainly because of the disagreement between the institutions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need a minute, Mr. President. On the basis of data and objective accounting data from EUROSTAT, this assessment will be carried out rather than by assessments or wishes of some of the institutions. A specific level of adjustment is foreseen for specific differences and protection for specific costs related to socially sensitive sectors. It is important to note that it is the conviction of both the Greek Government and the European partners that the mechanism will not have to be activated, because we are already moving above the targets. As long as some wish for the opposite, the inactive cutter will be rustled by the uselessness, as will the ambitions of the New Democracy and those who run behind them. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We are aware, ladies and gentlemen, that the imposition of taxes and, above all, indirect taxes is a fundamental measure. But then, from this last financial package and its assessment, they will follow draft laws, which are inverted by this very material nature, such as development law, the fight against smuggling tobacco and oil, the social economy, electronic payments and so on. Along with these, we must not forget the possibility of paying late payment of the state's debts, which are 2 billion directly and 5.2 billion in total until the end of the year, the return of waiver and monetary relaxation and, finally, the debt relief, which not only can balance the actual impact of these measures but also enable taxes to be reduced or other charges within 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u108	Please, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u109	In two seconds, Mr. President. Obstacles, difficulties, triples from abroad and the internal front, giving Greek society the opportunity to breathe, we also give the opportunity, together with society, to develop and walk the way of the future that is worthy of Greek citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u110	The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Christos Stagios, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the draft law in an environment of political authoritarianism and devaluation of Parliament's democratic function but also in a wider environment of paralytic stagnation, generalised frustration, zero expectations from society. Gentlemen of the government, you have a huge responsibility for this, with your obsessions without any political contraction, with your Latin American wanderings, with your timeless lies, without sweating your ears when they are pointed out to you, with your theatrical performances of supposedly tough negotiation, when you willingly do everything, to earn a little more time in power. In conclusion, the left government has brought with it enormous cost to the country. Ladies and gentlemen, New Democracy is voting against the draft law for the following reasons: The first reason is, because it imposes new taxes, the consequence of the ideological obsession and the inability of left-wing governance. All citizens, particularly the low and middle layers of society, experience it painfully, with parallel overturns in their lives. Perseverance that has no logic, which has no barrier, which has no end. Persistence which, as has been shown by the first memorandum, is economically ineffective and socially unjust. It leads to a complete steadfastness in the economy, strongens every prospect of growth, a private initiative, the creation of new jobs, kills what is left of production. It further negligents society. But who is this new tax storm that we are discussing in this bill and we have been discussing two weeks ago? The government is again increasing the rates of VAT. It increases the rates of legal income tax. It's reducing duty. It increases and simulates the rates of solidarity contribution. It increases rent tax. It's increasing the ENPIA. He's taxing dividends. It increases the income tax on farmers. It increases insurance contributions. It increases the tax on investment companies. It increases the cigarette tax. It increases the excise duty on beer. The special scheme for the taxation of alcoholic beverages on the islands is abolished. It increases the tax on coffee. It increases the tax on petrol. It increases the tax on heating oil. It increases the registration fee for cars and trucks. It's a tax on electronic cigarettes. It imposes a special charge on fixed and pay-TV bills. It imposes a tax on hotels and rooms. In conclusion, new taxes, additional taxes, taxes everywhere, tsunami taxes, inspiration, ownership, execution of the left government! The second reason why we are not voting is because the draft law imposes additional budgetary measures, the consequence of the uncertainty and inability of left-wing governance. The measure account - with the SYRIZA and ANEL stamp - already totals EUR 9 billion. It is an account much higher than what the lenders were asking for a year and a half ago, in order to achieve much higher budgetary targets, an account that has already gone far beyond the August agreement, even without additional preventive measures of EUR 1.5 billion already. It's the cost of the delay. This is the financial footprint of SYRIZA's unresolved policy. Yesterday, some people were raped to question these facts and said - and the SYRIZA rapporteur said so - that the measures were only 5.4 billion. Indeed, for the first time in economic theory, I have heard that privatization is also within the measures, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u112	You suggested that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u113	He's not in line. He can't be in the range. Other deficit, other debt. Don't mess it up. I mean, they said it was all five, four billion dollars. In other words, what we voted two weeks ago and what we are voting on today, all and all these measures are all. But they forgot to tell us what they voted for last year. I would therefore remind them. They increased VAT rates, increased the rates of insurance premiums, abolished out-of-one income tax payment, abolished HNPVA payments, increased the advances of income tax, abolished the refund of agricultural oil, increased the cost of raw materials in agricultural production. The special arrangements for reduced VAT on the islands were then rejected in the first instance. They increased health contributions to the main and ancillary pensions. They have curtailed - and indeed retrospectively - the ESS. You didn't do that at 5.4 billion. You have voted on them since last year, since 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u114	And you voted for them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u115	I therefore present to you from your budget the table with the measures you have already adopted since last year and which you intend to remember. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But the Greek people remember very well, who experiences them. Gentlemen of the government are known to like lies but fortunately they have short feet. As I speak about lies, three weeks ago the Prime Minister of this party had assured the Greek society that there would be no wage cuts. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Yesterday, with an amendment, you voted - or you proposed to vote - wage cuts on special wages. That, you know, is not called a delusion, it's called a fraud and a raw lie. The third reason why we are not voting on is that the draft law imposes a mechanism for financial compliance, and that is the result of the left-wing government's failure. It is a mechanism, which is essentially permanent, since its operation is estimated to be extended beyond the end of the programme in 2018. It is additional, since forecasts of a corrective budgetary mechanism had already been established since 2014, when SYRIZA was talking about a deficit of democratic legitimacy. So he described it, and today he recommends it even worse, permanent, automatic and horizontal. It is automatic, since it is imposed on itself justly, bypassing the Greek Parliament. He's horizontal, since he doesn't exclude wages and pensions. It is quantified as the mixture of policy pursued is considered almost certain to take additional measures. It is no accident that measures of 2% of GDP are mentioned in the provision. And after all, it's your unreliability clause. The fourth reason why we are not voting is that it creates a new supremacy of deprivation and exploitation of public property, which is inconsistent with the concepts of national sovereignty and dignity. This is an unprecedented assignment of the country's entire movable and immovable property for a century, without effective national and democratic control and accountability. In particular, the fund has a duration of ninety years, far beyond the end of all the country's lending obligations. Recently, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you yelled at the opposition's benches not to commit the next government for a year. You commit the country and the next generations for a hundred years, for a century. That's to explain. You are setting up a five-member supervisory board, with strong powers, the President of which is chosen by the European Commission and the European Stability Mechanism, whose decisions will be taken following a vote by at least four members, so with the agreement of the members chosen by the institutions. Indeed, the Supervisory Board also appoints the Chairperson, also appoints the Chief Executive Officer of the Management Board, asking what? Simple opinion of the Minister of Finance. Opinion! The assets transferred to the new fund are not entirely clear. Proof of last year's album, the continuous amendments tabled by the government, trying to hide or obscure reality. Indeed, in future, as your provision says, Minister, property owned by the Greek State may be transferred to the Fund simply by decision of the Minister of Finance. In the next hundred years, the Minister of Finance, by his own decision, can pass on what he wants to this fund, to whose supervisory board the institutions, foreigners, will do. There is no ceiling on the value of the assets that the fund will make use of and liquidate. What really happened to those items in the third memorandum? This is not the case today. And that is natural, since the government without soul pain now passes on the entire property of the country for a huge period of time to the fund, without any control and accountability at all. As the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament points out, 'he cannot escape state control'. I repeat: 'he cannot escape state control, parliamentary control or be subject to supervision exclusively by the Supervisory Board'. That's what the Scientific Committee of the Parliament says. In conclusion, these are unprecedented arrangements, which are also the non-reliability clause of the left-wing government. The fifth reason why we are not voting on the draft law is that this is a consequence of SYRIZA's timeless populism. I am presenting in the Minutes a small passage from the rich repertoire of this populism. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] SYRIZA, a so-called hard negotiator, became fully submissive. SYRIZA from supposedly warfare of memorials, without moral inhibitors, without ideological coordinates, votes everything, even permanent memorials, as long as it remains in power for a while. SYRIZA in some cases - fortunately for the country - is trying to land, even unrootedly, in reality. Vegetabled and sabotage launches the TAP pipeline, recognizes the value and promotes the investment of COSCO, deprivates regional airports. Gentlemen of the government majority, welcome to the field of demilitarisation! Ladies and gentlemen, for these reasons, the New Democracy is voting against the bill. However, he is also critical in the context of his debate. I would remind you that, for months now, the New Democracy has systematically and responsibly supported the early completion of the evaluation, but in the best way possible for the Greek interests, in a way that will be accompanied by the disbursement of the highest possible instalment and a good solution to enhance the sustainability of the debt. But where are we today? The assessment that should have been completed since last October, which was not carried out under the sole responsibility of the current government, seems to be complete in the very near future. This development, even with seven months' delay, is positive. Of course this delay has raised the account of the measures, as I have already said, and has increased the public's dues. How much? Since the beginning of 2015 by EUR 2.5 billion, 82% over the beginning of 2015. In any case, I hope that the completion of the evaluation will be accompanied by the maximum possible dose for an important part of it to repay at least part of these debts. I would remind you that, on the basis of the financial plan in the third memorandum, the country should have taken 15 billion to date. At present it does not seem possible to develop such a development. Of course, the last decision adds burdens to the citizens, through a fourth supplementary, as has been said, for several years, with compensation for a future, so far vague and conditional debt arrangement. Therefore, government self- admiration is arbitrary and misleading. In fact, given the continued existence of high budgetary surpluses for a long period of time, it seems that by 2030 we are leading to a permanent Memorandum of Monitoring of the country in an automatic way of imposing measures. In any case, we expect the next Eurogroup to see concrete and substantive arrangements to strengthen the sustainability of the debt burdened by today's unresolved governance. I hope that the arrangements will reduce both the size of the annual financial requirements and the level of debt as a percentage of GDP, because the text discussed in the last Eurogroup - after the proposed solutions, I hope they will be better - will lead the debt in 2022 to more than 140%, when the second memorandum predicted 120% of GDP. And I suppose, based on the rhetoric of the past, that this won't find you in agreement, you won't change goal post. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion the content of the bill reveals the ideological deforestation and the political cynicism of the so-called Radical Left government. It reveals the collapse of the illusions that this left was cultivating over time. It reveals the lymphs for supposedly left-wing and supposedly left-wing social sensitivity. It reveals the unreliability clause of the left government. It reveals that any left-wing soul was sacrificed to the altar for some political power even neoliberal cutting. Ultimately, it is revealed that SYRIZA fails to lead the country successfully to its historic course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, twelve students and students and four teachers attendants from the 2nd Elementary School of Krokos Kosanis. The House welcomes them to Athens and the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now here's what I'm proposing about the procedure. First of all, it closes the computer system for Members who want to speak. As far as I'm concerned, ninety-five colleagues have been registered. To be practical, listen to what I'm proposing. There are two ministers, Mr. Tsironis and Mr. Paradiseopoulos. The non-competent ministers, as you know, will speak for seven minutes each. So one option is to speak now and then en bloc go to the six special speakers without any interruptions over special speakers. Then because I see that Mr. Chakalotos has asked to speak at 7 p.m. this afternoon, we go en bloc of the three circles of speakers, as appointed by the parties. Parliamentary representatives, it is self-evident that if they want their protagonists, they can do so in the intervening period, whenever they want. I would expect the Minister to speak and then the parliamentary representatives to follow the Minister. This, however, is at their discretion. I am simply saying this because by making the calculation of the years, until the Minister speaks, we will have reached about half the third cycle. So by 12 o'clock at night, because then there is no other Minister, it means that of the ninety-five colleagues, it will also have spoken with a sufficient number of colleagues, much more if they agree to shorten their time and go to five minutes. So this is the proposal that is being made as a practical place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u118	What do you want, Mr. Kutsuko?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u119	I agree with the whole proposal...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u120	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u121	I'll give you Elijah the reason. Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, I agree with your proposal but you cannot stop the rapporteurs, since they have started and are calling. You understand that's not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u123	Mr Kutsukouko, I said for practical reasons that it is possible for a Minister to take the floor for his prototype whenever he wants to be done under the Rules of Procedure and I can do so. You're an old colleague and don't tell me that you can't. I said it for practical reasons. It is a delay for special speakers 15 minutes but then we shall proceed in this way to serve those who are not designated in the three circles. You don't want to, we don't do it, but it's not a problem. Here you go, Mr. Panayotare. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Nikita.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u125	When I preside, I'm not like this. When I'm down, you can call me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u126	Mr. President, I'm kidding. Listen to something, last night the speakers in the committees you made us speak last of all and we came here this morning to talk again. I think it's gonna have to end the boy's circle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u127	You won't be the last of all. Do you understand what I said? Fifteen minutes late and then en block, starting with you, are spoken by the six special speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u128	Wouldn't the ministers and speakers want to hear?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u129	No, they're the two Ministers and then we're going to 19:00 this afternoon with Mr. Chakaloto. Let's go en bloc, special speakers and all three speakers. It is a delay for speakers 15 minutes, but I would ask that my proposal be accepted, so that the Members who have been electronically enrolled can also be served. Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor for seven minutes, and then Mr. Chironis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, thank you very much for giving me the floor, as I have asked for it, but since I recently complained about the issue of unconstitutionalism, I can resign from my speech at this time and make use of my Quartet during the work, given that a special legal issue arises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u131	Therefore, the waiting of special speakers is also reduced. Mr. Chironi, you requested the floor on the basis of the list I have here at 12 noon. It's true to you. And that's a 50% reduction in waiting. You have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, during these three days I tried not to lose a single minute of the meeting. Once again, I heard the story of Anti-Population that the country has been destroyed since SYRIZA arrived and unfortunately did not have time to get the country out of the crisis. No one for once said where this crisis came from. Looks like an earthquake or an epidemic. No one brought her, it's a natural phenomenon. In fact, some people say it was the Greeks who were laundering and buying German cars with borrowers. So I decided to dedicate today's speech to proving that the crisis didn't come from nowhere and that neither is the Greek people to blame. My homeland doesn't have much more lazy than Germany nor does it give up more thieves than Denmark. People are all the same, but the conditions are the ones that change. So I wanted to show the guilt that led my country to the rocks. But Dina, a gymnast from these civil servants, who call them lazy...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u133	Happy birthday to Dina!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u134	...and he works at a useless public primary school and asked me something simple: "When will SYRIZA punish the guilty? When will he bring the money back?" Then I realized that I, too, had fallen into a trap, denounced the old culprits, to be denounced by them for the new government and to be all the same. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I have a map, speaking of forest maps. This is a forest map. This is supposed to be a forest, ladies and gentlemen. If this thing looks at it carefully, you will see scattered inside these hundreds of AD, which means forest land that has changed character, legalised dwellings such as this one, P.A., or other "lodge" legalized, while next to the road you see a demolished, because it is perfectly resurrected. Impossible, i.e., thousands of properties, citizens of a corruption. And yes, my dear friend, Dina, and for years, a lot of real...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u135	We talked about it before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u136	...the truth is that fifty and sixty and seventy years of injustice can't be cured. The crucial thing, then, is that I table this map in the Minutes, so that Members too have an idea of what a forest map means and what the reality is today in Greece is - is not to name the guilty, because if we send them to prison, we will get the money back. Because sin is too old in insurance and in all matters. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy, Mr Ioannis Tsironis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned map, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If we have to name guilts - because some will go to jail - and see what it is to blame, it is to change course, because the country is now with the back against the wall. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you this: do you honestly think that we have made them magic and voted on them? Do you think people are listening to the canals? Do you think our fellow citizens are so naive? I think you probably don't understand anything. You don't see the simple reality. People always saw corruption, they saw the waste, they saw the buried oranges. They heard the lambles boast that they had "consumed" with the MP "Flying" or with the Minister "Clifttom". People boasted it, they didn't hide it. These people were in our circles. They saw the neighbor's daughter appointed by a party mechanism, but just as they ate a piece of bread, raised by most in the junta, they had the beginning of "do your job". That was the reality, not that they didn't see it, not that they didn't know it, not that they didn't see what was going on. When, of course, the regime threw the country on the rocks, then really these people beyond what is happening, unfortunately in many countries of Europe, beyond fascism, found the stray on the ruling left. They trusted her for the first time. I ruled her left. One thing is certain, we may have kneeled in the summer, we may not have made our dreams come true, but at least we didn't give up and the country is standing right now. The country is standing from here today and I will mention only three examples. Let me remind you that the garbage we fly in the dumps is over three hundred million tonnes a year. The NATURA regions of Greece, which is 5.5% of Europe's NATURA, which, according to the European Commission itself, is 200 billion tonnes, have a turnover of around 11 billion, which we believe are birds and seals. Our forestry could have more than 2% of GDP. Now it's 0.1%. Forestry, in countries that have half the forest cover of Greece and nothing to do with our own biodiversity, has about 2% of GDP. So Greece is here. Greece of the future is sleeping. The wealth's out there because some people didn't leave him. So we drank the bitter glass in the summer - and this story is closed today - because it makes very much difference to exploiting it from the sale. I would like to refer to PPC. They were talking about 'little PPC'. They sold the entire hydroelectric power station only at accounting value, as much as the cost minus the depreciation of the dam? The water? The inner areas? The thousands of acquittals from the public? How were these sold? How did they measure this? So I will cry if I sell one share of PPC, but it is a thousand times better to sell one share of PPC or ten shares of PPC than to give a whole station than the most modern ones. As far as water is concerned, we do not want to sell shares of the EEAS, but at least we - and the movement, let us honour the movement - that 51% stays in the Greek public. He's always in public control.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u137	Where does that come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u138	From the Council of State, I remind you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u139	Oh, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u140	Now we're talking politically. We're not talking about CF decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u141	Happy birthday to Dina!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u142	You're abolishing this law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Hatzidakis, don't interrupt the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u144	How many NATURA have we found, ladies and gentlemen, for sale?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u145	A word, Mr President, when we hear that, it is time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u146	There is an archaeological site, the temple of Apollo. The archaeological site was in the contract for sale. I don't want to expand anymore. The reality is obvious. I'll close with a report on public sector people. As soon as the crisis broke out, the people you appointed, you bloodyed them, you mocked them, they were beaten by you to the institutions as the perpetrators of the crisis, as the absolute lazy ones, as useless! Even today we hear these from the benches. On the contrary, I believe that these people must be supported, and it is worth thanking them. So, from this step, I want to thank Crinio Triantopoulou, Vassilis Lioga, Costas Diopoulos, Eleftheria Calograni, Ms. Lambrosi, my children's teachers at school, the CSD's nurses who were there when I needed them, because without them the state would have fallen. Maybe you should call me populist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u147	No way!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u148	And that yesterday I was talking about the jury. You're going to ask me, "There's any, uh, bags? Are there no lepers?’ I will respond with a very basic principle of administration, which in the new Greeks we call it'management'. So when we ask about the basic principle, we say that the performance of human resources is the responsibility of the administration. In simple terms, if what you're saying, you've been telling the private sector and a manager with a field of responsibility, when it didn't work out, go and say it over the command "It's my subordinates", you'd be kicked out. There is nowhere in the administration the responsibility of the former and not the chief. So, over here, when you've left, you have thrown your ass to these people. So I answer and commit that whenever people in my area of responsibility fail, the first responsible and the first to have failed, I am myself and not the underneath. Of course, I'd like to say that we won't fail, because we're a team we're working on. We will succeed and get the country out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u149	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u151	What do you want, Mr. Amyras?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u152	I would like to speak on a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u153	Look, what we said the ministers did not do, I will not let the representatives do so too. What do you want? Do you want to answer Mr. Tsironi?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u154	No, I won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u155	Then what do you want to talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u156	I'll tell you. Yesterday, in my speech, I told the Minister that we are waiting to give us some clarification on Articles 153, 155, on the criteria of settlement, on the financing of...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u157	Good. He didn't give them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u158	Let me tell you, Mr President, why it matters. From the Minister's replies to these critical questions, we would have set our vote. If he doesn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Amyuras, by tomorrow at 6 p.m. you may give them and determine your vote. Now I'm not interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u160	I asked for the floor yesterday and you did not give it to me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Chironi, I didn't give you the floor. Please, have a seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u162	As soon as I speak, Mr. Amyras, I will answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u163	Minister, who told you you could stand up and answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u164	But I said...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u165	You're not even allowed to stand. Do you think rigour is for the MPs alone? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u166	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u167	On behalf of the Golden Dawn, Ilias Panagiotaros has the floor. Here, Mr. Panayotare, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Tsironis said many thanks before, as if he were at a prize award contest. As for what you said about the canals, I would like to remind you of what you said just the day before, SYRIZA MPs, such as Mrs Aulonitos, who had come out in Mrs Pania, where she said incredible things and hit all the TV records, or Mrs Karakosta, who at another television station said things respectively. But beyond the joke, we should now come to the grim reality. We had the first native memorandum, the unexploited one, that of George Papandreou, Jeffrey, who took the private debt of banks and, on one night, turned it into a state debt towards other states, into a mortgage debt of an entire nation against international loan sharks. Remember then and how the New Democracy that had not voted for it had reacted, how SYRIZA had reacted, "they were hit". Remember what they said about the first memorandum. We went to the second Memorandum of the Samaras - Venizelos - Karatzafiris, where with additional measures follow-up to the first memorandum, a Greece collapsed from the thousands of suicides, the millions of unemployed fellow citizens, the hundreds of thousands of Greeks who fled abroad, the hundreds of thousands of businesses that closed and continue to close and close, all indicators, all the numbers being taken down. And then the current congress of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks on the rails, on the streets, on the squares, everywhere squeezing, talking about "German betrayals", about "German gypsies, say "on the four", say everything. We arrived at the third and most prosperous Memorandum of SYRIZA - ANEL, with the signature, of course, of the PASOKs, of the New Democracy and of the Potami and re-signed all of the so-called 'constitutional arch' in the final extermination of Greece and the Greeks, and in a very insidious and fraudulent way, because before the signing of the third Memorandum had preceded a referendum, where the vast majority of Greek citizens had said not in the memorials, not in subjection, rather than in the rocks of dignity, rather than fall into the boulder of subjection. And you come a few months after the third memorial and you bring a "death" plan to what is left of our national sovereignty, independence, in order to serve the unscrupulous, abnormal, ethnic appetites of your bosses, because in the end you all have the same bosses, domestic and international. You're all enslaved to the world's fucking loan shark. You are all the same, careless, chair-cedars, stateless, a symphony very confused at the expense of the patron. Consider, gentlemen, SYRIZA and ANEL, what you said a year ago and what you said less than a year ago, what you said up to a few days ago, what you said on the channels, which Mr Tsironis just said: 'the canals'. Those dolphins you've been talking about all these years are going to happen. I say in the Minutes that you are first news of the inspections at 'Peroke' and 'Delfinari'. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above mentioned dvd albums, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We're also giving a copy for Mr. Tsakalotos. You'll be the first to report on all the inspections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u169	You file it in the Minutes and the Minister will take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u170	He's just come to give it to him because he's gone somewhere. He took the red bag with the monkey in the back and went for a walk. All this at the expense of our country. In order to save this country, it needs what you were all saying beforehand, an audit of a debt that is unsustainable. It is neither sustainable nor manageable - which you have made new expressions - nor anything at all. Deletion of the majority of it, if after the audit it is shown to be burdensome, illegal and disgusting. Immediately demanding the mortgage - really, what about the mortgage loan, mates? Scarlets? Muga? - and growth. Development for which you have no idea, because most of you have never worked, or have been in public, or have been in public, or have been in public, or have been in some kind of "false" "false" "false" with huge accounts. Development which cannot come to nothing at all with the exterminating indirect taxes, indirect taxes that have gone beyond direct taxes in recent years. The most unfair tax, the indirect tax, that's what you were saying. We are reporting here in the Minutes, showing for indirect taxes since 2009, most EUR 26.7 billion has been paid. Of course, the last numbers that come out now will show that you're well overrun in 2009. You don't know what's going on with you! Please submit to the Minutes some information on indirect taxes. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is not possible to have a VAT of 24%, the largest VAT in Europe, far greater than in the competitive countries. According to the EBEA report, employers' contributions are 24.6% in Greece, 10% higher than the average in neighbouring countries. VAT in our country is the third highest in Europe and much higher than VAT in other countries with a lower VAT rate, such as Bulgaria, Romania, and Albania, and Croatia and other neighbouring countries. With the measures you take to the detriment of the free professionals and all the numbers, you're kicking out the business from our homeland. I submit the EBRD publication, which says why hundreds of thousands of businesses are leaving our country. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am also making an ad in a country, Croatia, which entered the European Union some time ago and gives terrible conditions for professionals to go there. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The same applies, of course, to other countries. Even Romania, which threw VAT and taxes, automatically saw its revenue increased. I put the relevant document in the Minutes to see how it increased its revenue and another neighbouring country. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would also like to say what the Albanians are doing, which until now we have been mocking. Albania has therefore reduced the taxation for medium-sized enterprises, so that Greek businessmen are going massively, by thousands, even in Albania. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I also read some figures to see what happened in the six years of the memorandum. The country's tax revenues are much less than 2009, which the state received EUR 50 billion. But in 2016, with VAT increases, taxes and everything, revenues will be less than EUR 50 billion. The VAT revenues from the 16.5 billion in 2009 will fall in 2016 to 14 billion euros, despite the fact that you have increased the VAT in whole, and the general VAT on both the islands and everywhere. I'm coming to the income tax on personal income. In 2009 we received EUR 10.8 billion. In 2015, where you have put in both farmers and all, and old people and old people and children and all, we will receive less than EUR 9 billion. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as the gift of all the assets in the ribbon is concerned, I would like to refer to the hypocrisy of the New Democracy, which is in favour of the privatizations and wants a clear list of what we will give the ribbon, to vote in favour of it. Eventually, he will vote for it by tomorrow afternoon! As regards the famous cutter that SYRIZA's people are trying to justify, the Greek people are looking at them and says, "But well, those people who, up until a few days ago, said other days ago, now say that and believe them." Of course the cut, as our Parliamentary spokesman said before, as the Chief of the Golden Dawn has said, and as the Golden Dawn has pointed out, is a cut for all except for the great-working ones. Bobolas vs. National Defence noted "1", because a cutter will exist in the National Defence, but there will be no in the works of Bobola and other great-workers who "created", set up the competitions - they have now come to the forum and you know it and you - for a decade and shared the profits. Also, Bobolas vs. Special officers' wage bills again noted "1". Even Bobolas vs. Greek Defence Systems you noted "1", because with your amendment, tax and insurance information is automatically cut into the defence systems, which you had until 31 December. So the big-fashioned, big-working men, whom you're supposed to be fighting, on the basis of the essence, and with this multi-branded plan, you make rulers and rulers in this country. But everything we've said so far seems a little bit like you're bankrupt bankers' enslaves' enslavements. Consequent on all the above ethnic activities is the rapidly declining course of the Greek population. We're talking about a normal genocide. The data we presented in the previous insurance bill last week. The Greek population declines rapidly, even faster than the studies said in 2015 with the vast influx of illegal immigrants, with the non-birth of Greek citizens and the fact that hundreds of thousands of Greek citizens migrated abroad. They're gone "flying"! They're not coming again. To refresh your memory for the misery of the banks that have taken place. We will remind you of what state guarantees you have given the banks since 2008. In 2008, you guaranteed banks EUR 28 billion, more than 10% of GDP. In 2010, you provided state guarantees to banks of EUR 15 billion, over 5% of GDP. In July 2010, you provided EUR 10 billion more state guarantees to the banks. In September 2010, you provided EUR 25 billion more state guarantees to banks, when the crisis was on its way out, and everyone knew that nothing would ever be repaid. In May 2011, you provided another 30 billion state guarantees to the banks. In September 2011, you provided another 30 billion state guarantees to the banks. In December 2011 you provided 30 billion more government guarantees to the banks. A total of 168 billion government guarantees to bankrupt banks. Please take all the FEC for the Practices in which all of this is recorded. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned leafs of the Official Journal of the Government, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Recapitalisations. In 2009, you provided 5 billion cash to the banks. In 2013, you gave the banks 40 billion cash. In 2014, you gave EUR 8.3 billion to banks again and in 2015, you gave EUR 12 to 14 billion, again to banks, 68 billion to cash. We are all talking about EUR 240 billion for bankers and bankrupt banks. Money guaranteed and forced to pay the Greek people, which is higher than the country's GDP. These are to understand the disgraces that have occurred. Please also take this here, to see the disgrace of the Financial Stability Fund, a legal person of private law, which was required by the Greek people to take the CSF and give it to the banks and then lose the money and then regain the CF. A private fund unpunished and tens of millions of Greek people in garbage. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Part of this if it had been given as a recapitalisation to the insurance funds, we would have saved the insurance funds at the final moment from the thefts that have taken place over decades and all this about a non-viable debt, as the Parliament's Budget Office says, as the IMF says, as you are told by all, but you are simply told and no one wants to hear it. At the same time, you bring arrangements for the citizens' red loans, which you were once in the bars, never to be given to the cords, the funds, the distress funds, the vultures, but now you are giving them and you are not just giving them the green loans. First of all, since you're supposed to love the Greek citizen, why didn't you go to the Greek citizen to knock on the door and tell him "the crow will get it at 10% of the value of the loan. Do you want it?’ First of all, that. Secondly, if you loved the Greek citizen, you would have brought a provision and you would have changed the law, because you might have been told "sichir, take the house back, because I paid 200,000 and with interest 300,000 and now it is worth 80,000, I have paid 150,000 and I owe hundreds of thousands of euros, take a house worth 80,000". Not even that you want, because the bank will take it into this degrading value and also ask for the difference, and so it will take other homes and other property from the Greek people. That's not it either. Only in Greece and in one or two more countries around the world becomes this disgrace. Thirdly, and more importantly, it is this. I would like to refer here for two minutes to how you do not apply the laws. What should you do if you were in favour of Greek citizens? Article 95(5) of the Constitution expressly and clearly states that the administration has an obligation to comply with judicial decisions. Infringement of that obligation gives rise to liability for each competent body as laid down in the law. The Act lays down the measures necessary to ensure compliance of the administration. Please, for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In other words, there are now thousands of final judgments in favour of borrowers at the expense of banks, which should also be taken as a state in favour of Greek citizens, making them an automatic state law and helping Greek citizens not to fight every citizen alone against banks. For example, I mention decisions. Illegal interest on a consumer loan card at bank interest rates which are higher than the relevant legal practice. Hundreds of decisions of this type. Another decision. Extra-bank interest rates, despite being restricted to extra-bank changes, do not cease to be of more general socio-economic importance and also concern banking contractual relations. The social and economic aim of the right to the free formation of bank interest rates is to compress them below the limits of extra-banking. Thus, the agreement on interest rates goes beyond those ceilings, it is not forbidden by Law No 281. Other decisions, and I would ask that they be tabled in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A few dozen final decisions in favour of borrowers at the expense of the banking system nickname. You shaking the bankers, you dare do nothing for them. Not even the left-wing government, which was so much you were telling us and nothing at all. You're bowing to them, like the others. You served them and serve them faithfully and will not change and correct anything. Unfortunately, you have disappointed the Greek people and you and you have done the biggest evil, because the 63% of the Greek people who said "no" in the referendum was ready for everything. You, many of you, because you like chair and salary, others, because you have always been fanatical bankers, others for other reasons, and ultimately all of you, at the expense of the Greek people, for the benefit of banks and not only. The position of the Golden Dawn and its Chief - which we have said many and repeat it - is: "Better on the rocks of dignity than on the ladder of subjection!" And if we are to choose between Greece and the euro, we will choose Greece alone, because Greece was years before the euro and we will see to it that there are thousands of years after the euro. The Golden Dawn will fight to the end, to win our homeland back, and we will take it with the ashes of the people and God's help. We are voting against this native bill in principle and on the articles. And you should know that only the Golden Dawn has remained in this place and a pity about it, which is only the Golden Dawn fighting for the Greek's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u171	Let me make an update that the completion of special speakers, as I measured from time to time, will be around 14.00 p.m. I am therefore acknowledging the names of the first circle of speakers to know: it is Mr Mantas, Mr Hatzidakis - in order to read them - Mrs Georgopoulos - Saltari, Mr Lagos, Mrs Iglesi, Mrs Bakoyannis, Mr Dimitriadis, Mr Constantinople, Mr Mekopoulos, Mr Javaras, Mrs Manolakos, Mrs Marcos, Mr Marcos, Mr Papachristopoulos and Mr Georgios Katsiantonis. So colleagues in the first circle know that around 14.00 hours should be in the Chamber. Please come to Stepma, Mr. Koutsukos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think there is any more evidence of a holocaust, which has led to a subtle attitude of Mr Tsipras, Mr Kammenos and the SYRIZA Government - ANEL than this draft law. I would venture to say that it is the epitome of this course that has led to the full tradition of lenders of an unreliable and unreliable but willing government. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] This political assessment, ladies and gentlemen, is based on the fact that the 235 articles of this bill contain: First, thirty articles relating to the establishment of the surplus fund, which contains almost all the public-owned assets under the control of creditors. Secondly, the amendment of the ten paragraphs - articles of the automatic financial adjustment mechanism, the so-called 'cutter'. Thirdly, the forty-three articles on setting up an Independent Public Revenue Authority for the conversion of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue to an independent authority. Fourthly, the twenty articles imposing new taxes on mobile and immovable property amounting to 1.8 billion, i.e. taxes everywhere, indirectly and directly. And fifthly, the thirty articles that deliver'red' and 'green' loans to foreign funds for 'no house in the hands of a banker' by Mr. Tsipras. In particular, the surplus fund with the four subsidiaries is committed for a century - please - all the public's property to which it belongs all and movable and immovable. The lenders will control the administrative and supervisory bodies of this surplus fund and have veto in all its decisions both for investments and for privatisation and for divestments. In order to understand the Greek people who are listening to us: To appoint a member the best member of SYRIZA, for example, Mr Tsakalotos, he should have the consent of the lenders. Otherwise, he can't do it. And, of course, there is no control and no accountability in this superstition. The issues of popular sovereignty and democracy created are huge. Mr. Loverdos developed them earlier on the objection of unconstitutionality. We, ladies and gentlemen, have fought in committee at the first time to find out the amount of the property and the public assets involved in this new fund. And the government's ministers accused us of being prevented. But please, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you would have these tables on the public property in the ninety-one state property remaining in the GOD for divestment, at the six OSCE, OSCE, STASY, OSCE, OSCE, OAS, “ELTA SA”. - if we hadn't made this effort to tell us what the government has got into and what doesn't get into? Didn't you see the panic of the government and the alalum between Mr. Tsakalotou and Mr. Juliaraki, where other paintings did one and the other get back? And you don't tell me, ladies and gentlemen, I am mainly addressing the majority Members, but this is about the government - the subsidiary of the holdings, beyond these public companies, what other property does it have? Will someone tell us? I read from the 2013 report - because this is the last, 2014 report has not been submitted by the government - that the current assets of the Greek State are 78.5 billion. And participations and long-term requirements are 64.9 billion. Are these transferred to the fund? Is the assets of the Court of Auditors, which, based on Law 3986/2011, were to be reflected in the State's accounts, are they also transferred? Aren't these questions reasonable? Doesn't it make sense for the House to know what's being sold and what's not for sale? Why are you hiding them? What are you afraid of? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind everyone and especially the ministers of government that in 2011 we prevented this choice of lenders. We prevented her and you, the willing ones, give it all away. And this is an assignment of the absolute power and sovereignty of the Greek State through the Minister of Finance. Because it is another thing to do the necessary privatisations and serve your budgetary needs through them and another thing to deliver everything, and unconditionally, both transport and networks and infrastructure. I reminded Mr Tsakalotos in committee of the incurring performances from the Greek province, where we had the Greek monopolies, the gaming papers of the Greek monopolies, the alcohol, the light oil, because Mr Tsakalotos may not know about them. In this regime, we are reintroduced by this fund. The second point concerns the so-called 'cutter'. The cut, ladies and gentlemen, is the memorial tomb of the memorial. In other words, it is the automatic mechanism for monitoring the Memorandum Policy. Others said it a fourth memorial. I called it a 'plus memorial'. But the reality is that the House and the Minister, who have the mandate of the people to manage the finances of the state, no longer has them. All this comes into an automatic cutting system. And there are huge issues and people's sovereignty and democracy. Mr. Loverdos has already developed them. I now come to the independence of the General Secretariat of Public Income. I believe that it is a reproach for the government by means of its ministers that they cannot guarantee dignity, objectivity, good administration, and that is why they create an independent authority, out of control, which will decide and order those who are placed there. And the government does this, in which we handed over an independent General Secretariat of Public Revenue, where if she thinks she is not doing her job, could also change the status quo and correct it. Ladies and gentlemen, the independent authorities, according to our Constitution, are either auditing or regulatory. It is not about the hard core of the state that is public revenue. I now come to the fourth point concerning taxes. Taxes everywhere. I remind you of what the government said about the UNHCR when it was counterpopulation. In fact, Mr Tsakalotos also had the misfortune to be the rapporteur at the time of SYRIZA. He said he would be abolished and bring the big estate tax. No, it just doesn't abolish HISPIA, but it increases the coefficients. And what is the government's excuse? "We have reduced the objective values, so the citizens are not charged and only a few thousand will be charged." Really, Minister? Have you gone to the Greek region to see what the objective values are and that you did not reduce them in the province and thus increase the rates will be paid by the poorest and the weaker? Have you got a hampari that, with the increase of the land factor, the Greek villages will pay it, which each house has some acres of land? Have you understood that? [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Do you also, Minister, realize that this theory of the great property that you have dominated, of the five hundred thousand, of the one million, did you destroy it yourself by setting a limit of 100 grand as the sum above which the additional tax will be imposed? I'm coming to VAT now. It's a consistent government. It has a VAT increase course, from 13% to 23%, and now to 24%, about 420 million euros. Who will pay for this, ladies and gentlemen? The weakest will pay for it. Of course, it also delivers the reduced status to our islands. Consumption taxes everywhere and in everything: cigarettes, drinks, coffee, internet, registration of cars, mutual funds, company cars, nightclubs. Something's gonna get out of my way. It's certain. In some cases, the tax is 100% of the raw material, as it did in wine. This is all about 1.8 billion dollars. The euro. It's the third dose of a third memorial. The previous dose was insurance and tax, ten days ago. The previous one was the summer measures. A package of 12.5 billion, together with Mr Tomsen's 3.6 billion. Basically, Mr Chakalotos confessed yesterday for the first time. So far, they've been talking to us about procyclicals, which are not material. Ours were material, I remind you of what they said in the House. Of course, they have a cheap excuse, which is called a number of comic commentators: Yours, they say, the hypotheticals were twenty-nine billion. We put at EUR 9 billion. That is why the people are earning twenty billion. Easy, that's what you're imagining. Here, we have 'in the palm' and so we help'. These are your measures. The fifth point is loans. The amount of the protection of the first residence we set up in PASOK was EUR 320,000. You took it to 180,000 euros and now you're going to 140,000 euros. You zero it in a year. You give a transitional phase of one year, because when the big loans are over, the funds will also be allocated to the first place. Ladies and gentlemen, the mechanism for handling the so-called'red' and 'green' loans is the complement to the other mechanism of divestment of public property and concerns the private property of the Greek people. And the restructuring will lead businesses that are crucial to the Greek economy, such as tourism, in the hands of foreigners, and then the first home turn will come. This is the deadly combination of the five main axes of the bill, which, as I said, confirms our basic assessment that this is a subtle negotiation and full tradition. A low-flight autopilot enters the country, whose know-how the lenders have. Ladies and gentlemen, why are we here? Was it fatal to get here? We have arrived here because the government, as both the opposition and as a government, has undermined the country and this has undermined itself. He kicked all the opportunities. It led us to the early elections. He didn't go to make an honest deal on February 20, when the country hadn't gone bankrupt. She wasted the time until summer, and when she realized that we're all gonna fall down on the cliff and have the pity on her neck, she's made a naughty retreat. But then she was delivered and unable to negotiate. And so we arrived here, in this bill delivered by public property, which delivers public revenue, which our finances are in state control, loans go to corporations, and we have the packages of 12.5 billion. But the bill, ladies and gentlemen, does not just have that. It creates new posts and costs too. He's got ruffles too. He's also giving taxes. At the time when we tax citizens, we pay taxes to some big people producing electricity, excise duty. We do not abolish the excise duty on natural gas that goes to ordinary citizens, we abolish it for some big people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I too would like to have the same tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u173	It is enough time, Mr Colleague, that you have had at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u174	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u175	The others spoke two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u176	I am also referring to the deletion of penalties imposed by the Competition Committee. There's a few of them, too. I am referring to the arrangements of Mr Tsironi on forests, to the gender of figuratives of Mr Dritsa on ports, to the digital literature of the General Secretariat created. Of course, it punishes farmers, because the farmers of mountainous, problematic and island regions are the ones who made use of the provision that says 'a farmer is called the 35% of your income'. He takes them out of the programs of the Ministry of Rural Development. I mean, we can't get a irrigation machine and he'll tax them. Because they said they'd give a tax. So you will tax them, too, unless you do not understand that, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Kutsuko, a perfect put.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u178	To conclude, Mr President, I do not think the majority Members should celebrate. They must see the reality, this policy does not lead anywhere. He can't get the economy out of the deadlock and stagnation, because he doesn't have a vision, he doesn't have any plans, he doesn't have political stability.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u179	End of story, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u180	Another policy is needed and we are not simply voting against this bill, but we are working on a progressive policy of managing the major problems of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u181	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. Let the dances on the part of both the government and the MPs of condolence be kept anyway. SYRIZA's rapporteur today said that the measures are over. These are the last steps we take and we close. There'll be nothing else. They forget that the second assessment will come in October, where there are forty prerequisites, including the liberalisation of the labour market, and further liberalisation of the labour market. Aren't these anti-grass measures? They forget that these measures, which are now being taken, are cumulative in the previous ones and others, and they are not temporary measures, which will come to mark the lives of the people's family for the next decades if the people with their struggle do not take care to overthrow them. They forget - and the rapporteur - that not only these measures will remain, but - what are they doing? - and in the event of divergence, he says, from the budgetary objectives we also have an automatic mechanism which will impose new anti-grassroots measures, such as a reduction in wages, pensions and a number of social costs, so-called 'cutter'. Of course, Mr Tsakalotos said yesterday in committee that we hope that the good news will come. So you said, Minister, and focused on the question of the restructuring of the state debt, not, of course, that there will be a 'nominal haircut' - that is not the case - but that there will be a reduction in debt service costs, a reduction, of course, which the House and the overall package, as it said fifteen days ago, will have to vote for, namely, barbaric anti-grass measures. Therefore, the relief of state debt is conditional on anti-grass measures. Of course, why is that a condition? Why, on the one hand, does he have the anti-grassroots measures? And, on the other hand, to what benefit will the restructuring of the state debt benefit? Relief of the people? No, of course, if the anti-grassroots measures are to be allowed. However, it will lead to greater facilitation, greater government support and funding for monopolistic groups. Indeed, yesterday in your speech you said that this restructuring of the state debt along with the quantitative relaxation, which will be decided upon by the completion of the assessment and the European Central Bank, will act compensatoryly. As to what? With regard to the reduction of consumption.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u183	And overdue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u184	And overdue, yes. So, what do you think? That we will give the capitalists warm money, support them with state funding to develop in a labour market without a trace of labour rights and a very cheap labour force, and raise the burden of taxes on people with a high level of awareness. So if this policy does not have a classprint, a clear classprint, for the benefit of big capital, then what else can there be? What is the conclusion of the evaluation, which you are also celebrating, but also the New Democracy, the PASOK, the Potami, the Centrons' Union, forcing you to shut it down quickly? That after each assessment we have escalated the anti-grass attack and created even more favourable conditions for the activities of monopolistic groups, business groups, the logic of achieving the recovery of the capitalist economy. These were the results of the previous evaluations carried out by the New Democracy and the PASOK. These are your results, and they will also be the results of the next evaluations that will come. But, let's see, doing over here a word game, among the good news and the bad news. First of all, let's start with the bad news. Who's the bad news about? It is about the working class and the wide folk layers. In the previous bill, we had the demolition of the substance of the social nature of the insurance. We have had an increase in indirect taxation for the people's layers and you are coming today with today's bill after 15 days to increase indirect taxes, namely an increase in VAT from 23% to 24% and an increase in a number of excise duties, as well as the introduction of new excise duties. Who are they burdening these? The indirect taxes are mainly borne by the people's families and by the calculations, which were made with 1.8, which you say will draw from these indirect taxes, about a four-member family we are talking about 700 euros annually on an additional tax-free basis. At the same time, when you raise the tax on natural gas for the people, for the people's consumption, you are abolishing the last colonel left and free, you are abolishing for all industries using natural gas to pay a special tax. You have done so with the amendment by the SYRIZA Members, in the middle of the night, for industries using natural gas as a raw material, and now you are also doing so for the power industries using natural gas, so for all industries. So here's the nature of your policy. You're raising HISBIA. Go and crack three hundred thousand poor rural households by excluding them from the definition of a main farmer, increasing the percentage from 35% to 50% of the revenues for who can be considered a farmer. So, then, the one who owns a grocery store in the village or a small cafeteria, you throw him out. So it loses any tax exemptions it had from the previous bill, loses taxfree and, of course, loses subsidies. So you're finishing him up to do what? To speed up its release and gather the agricultural land into less and less hands. From this point of view, it was disgraceful yesterday's propaganda of your Deputy, Mr. Juliarakis, which said that we were getting a few of the many and many of the few. You're doing the opposite. You get a lot of the many and none of the few. You're giving the few of them. You don't get any of the few. So this is also a number of other measures that you are taking, such as the retroactive return of the EVS paid, but also the amendment that you brought last night, which abolishes the ripening for special wages. These are the characteristics of the anti-grassroots measures, and of course there is also a number of individual provisions and regulations in the changeover to the new companies and the bodies you are creating, for example in this Public Property Responsibility Fund. Of course, above all, there is this automatic cut, which in this automatic cut you have put wages and pensions and a number of social costs. From now on, the good news about capital begins. The automatic cut-off is excluded from the total expenditure going to investment, either from the Public Investment Programme or from public procurement or from development and investment laws or from the management of the NRP. You're pulling them out of the cutter. And of course you don't just do that, that you're taking them out of the cutter, but you're also taking a set of measures. We'll list them. Firstly, the interests of capital are excluded from the cut-off. Secondly, you are creating a fund to make use of public property. For whose benefit will this fund be? First, the company you do, the Greek Company of Participation and Property Anonymity, does not belong to the public or to the wider public sector. It's a private company. That's the first. In this private company you are transferring the entire public property and even for ninety years. Based on what this company will operate, it will be a co-management company - at least - between the Greek State and the institutions, as you call them, to lenders. It'll be co-managed by public property for ninety years. So you've been committing the public property for ninety years to what interests? Firstly, the government debt service, which the people did not do, does not do, and secondly, 50% of the revenue you have from this company will be based on investment, so business again. Of course, with this use of public property you use all forms, you do not exclude anything from privatizations, etc. Minister, will you give us the list of nineteen privatizations planned by September 2018 to catch the 6.2 billion referred to in the third memorandum? At some point you have to make him public, because he's not only nine. Second, sale of assets. Thirdly, public-private partnerships. Fourth, concession. Fifth, the entry of a strategic investor. In everything, even in water and urban transport, and everywhere. Third point. The airport contract. Where do you put the airport contract with Article 224? You include it in the powerful powers conferred by Law 2687/1953, this scandalous decree protecting from anything foreign private investment, which is a remnant of the remnant of the remnant regime created here. Insert the investment they make at the fourteen regional airports in this legislative decree that has constitutional effect and can you not bring about any change that you or any future government, unless it is accepted by the concessionaire as well? And from this point of view, what are you doing with this legislative decree? You provide provocative and scandalous immunities to the investor's action, protection of the investment from any change to the detriment of the investor's interests, exemption from taxes and fees. Even the municipal fees are abolished for airports. Any change we said should take place with the agreement. Even in very serious circumstances you cannot impose the specific assets as government. Only in the event of war and if you indemnify, you can choose this. And we're talking about airports in islands, remote areas. In case of earthquake or any other natural disaster you must take the investor's permission, so that you can make use of these airports and pay them very expensively. Fifth point - I have lost count too - is the management of red loans. Of course, there is a temporary protection until 2018 of a first residence of up to EUR 140,000 and after 1st of 2018 it is released. You give the whole of the red and also green loans to manage a number of investors. Why are you doing this? In order to be able to reap and cleanse itself, to facilitate the resolution of the financial system. Sixth point: Promote and speed up the European Union's market liberalisation policy - for example, the energy market - with the provisions you bring here. You break IPTO from PPC, which is the policy of European Union liberation. What does the individual IPTO make it easier? It facilitates and gives equal conditions to all private investment groups in energy production to exploit the network. This is why private producers themselves did not want privatised IPTO, because a privatised IPTO can ‘take the backs’ for specific business groups and not for all, while a public-controlled IPTO will accept them all on the same terms and will not be treated differently. Therefore, it does not guarantee the private producers. And secondly, through the energy auctions on the substance you turn PPC into a wholesaler. It will not even be possible for private producers to invest to the extent that they have to, but buy cheap electricity from PPC as a wholesaler and sell it in the retail market. Here, then, is how much through these arrangements the electricity tariffs for the people's family will be further increased. As far as ports are concerned, we have a liberalisation of ports. The Independent Port Regulatory Authority and the establishment of the Public Port Authority do not come outside the framework of the liberalisation of port services of the European Union. That is why the creation of these bodies also has the consent of the European Union, since it includes a number of anti-popular, anti-government legislation, adjustments to privatise the PPA, the EGF, and the other 10 smaller ports. And, of course, these provisions open up the way for a sweeping change in industrial relations, in labour contracts, in insurance, in pensions, in the form of trade union freedoms for the benefit of profit maximisation. A similar provision was introduced with an amendment to "STASY S.A." for the liberalisation of rail transport, where you effectively take all burdens from the private investor who will invest and purchase the "STASY S.A.". What do you do with the medicine? You release a section of unprescribed medicines in order to be sold by a supermarket. So you go a step further than what the OECD Toolbox envisaged in the liberalisation of the drug market. And even, in the explanatory statement, talk about medicines that the patient can take with the logic of self -diagnosis and self - therapy. To what extent did a SYRIZA Minister of Government talk about self-diagnosis and self-therapy? These are criteria of darkness, dangerous and deeply unscientific nature. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, with the tolerance of the two minutes that you have given the other colleagues. Also, the same is true of beer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u185	Someone has to set a good example.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u186	But not me, Mr President. I cannot give you the good example. Besides, I'm a bad boy, and that's well known!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u187	If the JRC does not discipline, who will discipline?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u188	We are persevering to popular, class law, Mr President. So from this point of view, we also have a VAT change in the beer. Who are you hitting? Not the multinationals for the benefit of the small. On the contrary, you break small producers to give 87% of the multinationals, who control the beer market, 90%, 95% and 100%, and the small producers get out massively. And even barley, through conventional agriculture, is going to destroy. So the market is growing. That's what you do with the beer thing. Forest maps: The arrangements you make for forest maps aim to speed up and complete in order for the monopolistic groups concerned to invest and gain from the growth of business activity in forest ecosystems. And it is no coincidence that the creation of forest maps is a prerequisite for monuments, unless the pain has caught the lenders and capitalists to protect the forests! In this respect, then, the controversy of the New Democracy and the PASOK is unreasonable. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government continues and completes the work they have left incomplete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u189	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u190	I shall conclude, Mr President. If you hadn't interrupted me last time, I'd be done. The people must not be caught in the millstones of this barren confrontation among managers, namely, a rotten and barbaric system. Do not bite in the algae of the neonazis of the Golden Dawn. Do they today have the courage to show up and talk about patriotism? The ideological descendants of German associates? The ones who delivered the wealth and the country to the American-Natural imperialists on bases, and to the multinationals? The ones who betrayed Cyprus? So no delusion! There is no way out for the benefit of the people under conditions of the sovereignty of capital and participation of Greece in the European Union. Or with capital, you'll be with the people. Third way, there's no way. From this point of view today, it is prerequisite that the JRC, its strengthening, the organization of the struggle, should help to relieve the people, but above all to demand that their needs be met. This will only be done through a more general rupture and overthrow. Overthrow the power of the bourgeoisie and break with the European Union, the International Monetary Fund, NATO and other imperialist organisations. Thank you very much, Mr President, and the tolerance you have shown with regard to time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u191	Mr Amyras has the floor, in which the lot was asked to be the first time consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. I shall be consistent, as long as the good colleagues of SYRIZA and ANEL are consistent in their responses to what I am saying. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago I was glad to hear Barack Obama's speech at the graduation ceremony of an American university, Rutgers. The theme of his speech was "The truth in a country's political life". Those who have listened to him, those who have retrospectively read his speech, I am sure you would think, like I, that "can't, there's an invisible Greek hidden somewhere in Obama's mind and whispers the situation in Greece". I will read you two lines and I think you will agree with me on this conclusion. So Obama said: "Ignorance for politicians is not a qualification. Disposing of the logic and value of the real elements and numbers does not mean that you speak great truths or words starkly. When our politicians express contempt for the numbers and events, when they do not take responsibility for dispersing the convenient lies, when they at the same time reject the real experts, calling them elites, then, yes, we have a problem. This is the safe way to the decline.’ That's what Obama says. It is creepy to identify the characteristics and describe the situation with the Greek reality of the last decades. But here we are on the road to the decline, which Greek society was pushed by lies, magical solutions, denial of reason and reality, disdaining numbers. Today's government's responsibility is very great, it's huge, I'd say. Why? Because she treated convenient lies and allowed her garden to bloom too many heirs of evil and invented nonexistent solutions and divided the world and finally betrayed everyone. With this multi-brand plan, the hundred and fifty-three Members of SYRIZA - ANEL will understand that the fraudsters may lead you up, but they have a major disadvantage: They cost expensive and pay the job mainly those who are economically weak, the unemployed, the poor, the micro-retired. In the end, of course, lies and delusional ones are avenged by the man who used them against the coroner. I'll remind you of some of the flowers of evil. "As long as I am Minister," said Mr Tsakalotos, who I do not see now in the Chamber, "the tax will not be reduced below EUR 9,100." Yes, sir. As from 9,500 euros, duty-free has fallen, of course, following Mr Tsakalotou's agreement with the demand of the International Monetary Fund at 8,630 euros. And it's wondering. Will Mr Tsakalotos be able to veto, say 'no' in a process of privatization, when he failed to convince lenders or for 500 euros to keep duty-free higher? It's a reasonable question. Other flowers of evil: "Movement oil is not going to increase," another Minister said. He said half the truth, because the reality tells us that in the rest of the phrase he did not say to us, it was the following words: 'Movement oil will not increase in itself, heating oil and liquefied petroleum and, of course, gas and of course, anything related to fuel'. Taxes on fixed phones, now commonplace that only the elderly use the fixed phone. Taxes on coffee, finely chopped, coarse, instant, tax on beer, mostly on Greek. Internet taxes! We're the only ones and Pakistan are imposing a tax on the Internet. It's like you're going to tax the air we breathe. Taxes everywhere in the hotels, in the rooms, VAT on the islands. Say goodbye to the islands you know. Good-bye Cyclades, good-bye Dodecanese! What about the northern Aegean, this government tells you islanders. Another Minister said that the 2015 ENPI will never be collected. I'd say the top Minister than the one who said it doesn't exist. Then on the ceiling, it's Mr. Tsipras. Didn't know what he was saying? Another flower of evil: Mr. Juliarakis was in committee the day before yesterday - at last one of the few - walked, as I said yesterday, on the greedy path of truth and admitted that five hundred thousand Greeks and Greek women would pay more tax on the properties they own, by means of the supplementary tax. Dear Minister, Mr. Juliarakis, yesterday I was confused by Mr. Tropho Alexiadis. While you spoke of five hundred thousand citizens, Mr Alexiadis yesterday spoke about six hundred thousand Greeks who will pay more property tax. When we challenged him, he said: "We are interested in the six million property owners, to whom we hold ENVIA firmly. We are not interested in the six hundred thousand citizens.' He said it clearly, and at that time I went over it! And I say at that time, 'but is it possible for a minister to say something like that'? The eleven million Greeks should also be interested, from the first to the last, from the lowest in terms of income, from the poorest to the richest, because one produces wealth and the other is working and demanding an opportunity for creative employment in this life. 'Neither a house in the hands of a banker'. I sincerely speak to you that I hesitate to say this motto. Sounds so bad to me, he's so badly abused! He was abused by the ministers of this government, abused by the government's MPs over the years. And now when you say "not a house in the hands of a banker", you are overwhelmed by ambiguous feelings. What's the reality? From January 1, 2018, but all the loans, whether they are'red' or 'green', will also go through by the law - the bill that will be passed and made a law - to the funds, to what you SYRIZA MPs, the ANELs, led by the ministers of your Government, have called them 'cobs', 'necks', 'vabirs' and whatever else you want. "SYRIZA will say no to the sale of state property," said the ministers and the government MPs SYRIZA - ANEL. Yes, sir. And now with this superstition, which you give and land and water, what do you have to say? You're giving superpowers to the lenders' representatives. You cancel the concept of State property management. You sell everything, as I told you yesterday, not only silver, not only gold but also stitches. All that remains is for the government to say 'thank you in 2115', that is to say, the year that the life of this superstate, the overseer 'electric cleaner', will suck what exists from public, state property and then the fund itself with a decisive control by Europeans, by creditors will sell what it thinks, so that half the revenue of the demilitarisations goes into the pockets of lenders for the money we have of course borrowed and owe them. You say again that the TECs that will join the demilitarisation fund will not be demilitarised, but you are doing so for better management. Then why did you get the last minute out of the annex with the legislative improvement of PPC, EKDAP, the "ATITIMERO S.A." and other state-owned enterprises? These businesses don't deserve to be run right? Ladies and gentlemen, with the multi-project, it is entering the endless austerity. How? Through the automatic cutter in wages and pensions. I imagine you didn't mean that when your co-pilot, Mr. Kammenos, said that we've been coming out of the memorials since 1 May. He did not tell us the continuation of his proposal: we are coming out of the memoranda, but we are entering an endless deep austerity that will last for at least twenty years. You say and my dear fellow Member has caused me that we have voted for what you are now bringing. A simple first question - and please give it less weight: If we have voted on it, Mr President, why are you bringing them back? Are we gonna vote for them second time? We are, however, going to the most important answer to what we voted on on on 14 August 2015 and I shall present it, of course, in the Minutes. I will read to you mot à mot what we voted on: "According to the statement of the euro area summit of 12 July 2015, a "independent fund" will be set up in Greece, which will hold significant assets of Greece. This fund will be set up in Greece and will be managed by the Greek authorities and supervised by the relevant European institutions." Mr Colleagues, it does not say anywhere that the representatives of the creditors will have a decisive responsibility for the involvement of the administration. He doesn't say it anywhere. He says we Greeks will decide, not foreigners. I put it to you to see what you voted for, because we voted together.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u193	It's supervising.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u194	We did not vote to take the public property under decisive control of a group of foreigners, whoever they are. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the lies of today's government and the Prime Minister's illusions have cost us dearly. The Governor of the Bank of Greece, Mr Stournaras, said only three days ago that we lost 86 billion euros from the proud six-month "Baroufakada" and the capital control. But I have not heard a word from the government, I have not heard you comment on it. I didn't see SUNDAY getting it front page. However, I do not think Mr Stournara would be in trouble because he had a front page ten days ago about his statements that he was looking at light at the end of the tunnel. The EUR 86 billion lost who will justify them? Ladies and gentlemen, in closing my speech, I would like to tell you that, in my personal view, the greatest cost is not only the lost billions, but that for years the government MPs today, as an opposition yesterday, the ministers today, as an opposition yesterday, have put the world into lie and delusion. But people have responsibilities too. You don't just have one. It is not only that politician who is lying but who is responsible and the citizen who listens to it is swallowing it, because it is convenient. So the landing will be hard for all of us, it will be hard mainly or even for those who have remained faithful on the path of truth, who did not reject the logic, which did not reject reality, but, as we said, lying can never defeat the truth. Today's bill is the revenge of common sense on the lies that you have been cultivating in previous years, SYRIZA - ANEL against coron, and the revenge for you of the hundreds of three Members of SYRIZA and ANEL is that you are now obliged to vote on all the taxes that you have disproved and all the sales that you have made first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, too. We're on the list. Mr. Kammenos isn't here? From what I can see, no. Let's go down. Mr. Marios Georgiadis is here? He's not here? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u196	This is how it is done, Mr President. They'll be here later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u198	Mr. President, I'm here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Kammenos is here. Mr. Hatzidakis, excuse me, but you'll have the floor later. Here, Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u200	Thank you very much, Mr President. Reaching to the end of a difficult three-day period and spiritually, because I imagine that we had to study too many articles in depth...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u201	Is that why you're late, Mr. Cammane?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u202	Yeah, I kept notes. Well, they're fresh. If anyone touches his hand on them, the ink comes out. We've been up all the time! I will start for the last time - since I am the last special speaker to have the honour of addressing this House, but also to Greek citizens - and I would like once again to bore the Secretariat and say that this government came a year and a half ago, it has received a specific economy, a certain dynamic, unfortunately a recession spiral, unfortunately with almost destroyed banks, unfortunately with a million six hundred thousands of unemployed people, who - whether we want to admit it or not - have created a huge issue with the State's revenue, the insurance funds and consequently, with the government's finances. I will once again submit to the Minutes some things. Because it is very important and I think that all of us here should agree that, at the end of our assessment, Greece will see better days, hopefully, we will give jobs and get out of this recession spiral. Unfortunately, however - I will begin with an example of the insurance funds, because insurance is a very large part - we have been accused by the media, by the trade unions, of opposition. I'll be a little strict. I would like to say to the trade unions, as well as to the opposition, as well as to anyone who criticizes this government, some time to write an article explaining what a government could do when IKA - EKAM in 2010 had income from insurance contributions from workers, EUR 11.5 billion and resulted, with the success and the success of the success of the first two memoranda of New Democracy and PASOK, in having revenues of EUR 5.8 billion at the end of 2014. The difference is close to EUR 6 billion only in the IKA, where we have fewer contributions than business closures and unemployment. Only in IKA 6 billion euros! The total - and I will put it out in the Minutes - is almost EUR 12.6 billion less contributions due to unemployment. Therefore, the key part that each serious government has to solve with serious economists, serious analysts, serious workers, is how current monthly pensions continue to be given, because costs are running. The pensioners, those who are already in retirement, must be paid. It must not put a brake on pensions because no one wants this - how much more so this government, which also has a social sensitivity - but continue to pay the existing ones and predict serious, financial and macroeconomic stability, pensions for the future and for future generations and not just for the current ones. I put the unnegotiable elements in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now watch one - one of the funds. If someone does an "income-out" analysis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u203	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u204	If I had hair, I could make Fanfara, but I don't have it, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u205	The other was nicer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u206	Yeah, the last one. I will therefore leave the Excel table - it is the first page, which has the three main funds - which shows what each fund receives and what it pays. The first is the revenue from contributions and the main is the exit from pensions. At the same time, all the funds receive, as this page shows, dozens of other revenues from other agencies, which they pay back. Here, in the three main funds, it seems that it is EUR 8.2 billion the gap that everyone has. In other words, this gap is financed - it is on the brown line, whoever wants to see it, is in the beginning, in turn, I think it is in '15' - and they are transfers of the national budget. This means that from our funds and tax revenues we pay the ‘hole’ of income-exit insurance contributions of EUR 8.2 billion. The evidence is from the official chart that was kind enough to give me - the rest are relatively confidential - the Ministry of Mr. Karugalos. I'm filing him for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We're coming to manage this situation. This hole has not been corrected. Don't be ridiculous. Today we are running at EUR 8.2 billion or EUR 8.6 billion a hole in insurance, revenue - costs, so simple. We can't borrow them. We can't get out on the markets. We cannot finance our deficit or horizontally cut off other costs and expenses so that we can finance pensions. So what do we do? It must be the 'huller' himself, who has revenue to pay expenses - and one of them is pension - that fills with something. It has to be filled with something, and this is part of the measures that we had to take last year with all the two Members of Parliament to decide, firstly, that Greece should not go bankrupt and that we should go naughty to the drachma and, secondly, to find a solution together - that is what we agreed - to cover the amounts that are missing from the whole fund and not just from the insurance. This is very important for everyone to know, because we can no longer make fun of ourselves that we can find a solution to magic. There are no magical solutions. There's no Houdini politician. But we are now coming to the brake. I will leave for the last time - I hope we will have to discuss again who and why - all the conventions and the Stability and Growth Pact, as they have been signed since 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 by all the governments of the Eurozone about how the brakes should go, how they are all agreed to sign them either in EKOFIN, or in any Council of Europe, so that they do not escape the budgets, saying that we do not miss the deficit and practically waste more than we can produce on the fund or what the markets allow us to borrow. I leave the whole agreement - half of it in English - of particular interest. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Over here, because they tell us about targeting both brakes and hand brakes, I have a sign showing how anyone should brake financially when they get away. Has been signed in 2014. That's the last billboard. Now we have 2016. It's the last plaque that tells you when you get away with how much of GDP you have to take measures. He doesn't tell you if you're going to take action from taxi or taxi, but he's telling you: Take 0.25% of GDP, because you got away. We've signed this. And not just us, many countries have signed it. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And we are now coming to bring it into application, because we cannot continue macroeconomically to see a risk in Greece. At some point, the investor, markets, lenders, but above all we, which is our home, must see that macroeconomicly, that is, in the future, there will be no risk. Whoever sees in the future does not put his money today, for example, is not borrowing. The bank may have money, but there's no trust. The other does not go to take money, because he does not invest in the future, because the future will bring him to need to meet his loan, so he says, "I see a risk, I don't borrow." The money's stopped inside the banks. I will also leave the official chart that Mr Alexiadis has been kind enough to give me - I have made notes with my hands - for the increases in dues. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] From 2013 to 2014: EUR 7.4 billion overdue. Since 2014: EUR 11.7 billion overdue, and in the end we have had a 650-euro cut. It's the painting from the Ministry's excel for the first quarter. It is not something extraordinary, but we show that there is a constant increase in due time, because no one has money, since money has been on the market for six years, how much more can it save or turn back the withdrawals that, unfortunately, he has made over all these years, losing his trust from the banks, taking the blood out of the banks. Fortunately, we will be able with the bills we bring, which concern smuggling of tobacco - very important - to get a normality, not to have boats coming to the beaches, to bring the cigarettes from which people die. In addition to the fact that the world is dying - the Minister for Health is here, too, who will bear the burden of all those who smoke illegal and poisonous cigarettes, since the health system is being burdened - I have a tax. This will be solved immediately in this month. Also, the rest of the two bills dealing with fuel smuggling and illegal bets and illegal electronic toys will come, in which taxes are avoiding over 3 billion euros. We have agreed, and we must all know in this government, that when we manage to bring in one year from now - we will not lie - next year, after evaluation - the revenue we expect from either the 'Panamadas' or the 'Panamadas', either from VAT, which will not escape, or from income, which would not escape, when Mr Alexiadis connects with the POS CSTP, and automatically every night will pay the VAT and advances of each professional at all stages of the market, so that nobody will escape - because the economy has left no one - so that when they collect these revenues, then the 'Kouvass' of the extra revenues, in relation to tax, ENPIA and others, will be able to offset and in one and a half year from now, not to take back measures - so that we can pay for these savings, which we can also pay off the money market. I leave the record that this government managed to get off the Lagard list of EUR 175 million, and unfortunately the previous governments had only taken EUR 26 million. We took 150 million euros more than the Lagard list, of the people who were taxing and taxing. Those who paid would imagine they gave the money because it was tax evasion and not legal tax evasion. If it were tax evasion, they wouldn't ask for the money, they'd ask us for the change. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'll close with the debt. Debt is a very important, extremely important one, not only to discuss it here and put a note into the agreement, but why it has to be done in practice and pragmatically. What this means: The cost of loaning every year, when you have the debt profile, which has to do with a transnational loan, with a loan from Europe's mechanisms, with a loan from the IMF, with a loan from the European Central Bank, with an inside loan from the public Treasury bills, with a loan that you need from all of them to pay unawarely bonds - because we volunteered my Greeks, but practically not tired enough abroad, so they come to get their money, so we have to pay them - all this debt profile belongs to different issuers, to different lenders, and we have to lose it on clean terms. For the first time - I will not read, so as not to tire you, I have made a small suggestion, because I will make it an article - I have the whole profile of Greek debt between now and 2059. On August 20, '59, the debt we've received so far expires. I have an editorial document that says to whom it belongs, and how much do we all get charged by 2059. It's twenty-two pages. Whoever wants to get a photocopy and reads it in his records. In fact, I'm saying what should be done on very simply Greek on a page. Knowledge is important to know what we have agreed. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Unfortunately, I hear a criticism about last year. Look, it matters if someone knows. And if I were to get into an O.R. or my friend's office, Mr. Manda, I wouldn't know how to handle the situation. But when we talk about finance, it cuts us for some things. One cannot say that last year we borrowed EUR 86 billion. Here we all want from a psychiatrist, at least politically, I tell Mr. Mada. Because when someone says I charged a man of 86 billion, it means someone trusted them. We have accounting charges and credit. That is, at the moment, if the Opposition comes and shows me a debt of EUR 86 billion, I will give my seat to the Secretariat! That's the end of lies! What were we charged for last year? We have charged what was disbursed by a EUR 86 billion plan. From the 25 billion we received the 6 billion - and less - for the banks and the rest we got what we needed, whether in cash or bonds, cash and cash, cash and cash to pay the public's obligations. And the disbursement place, which does not exceed EUR 20 billion, was entered in the debt. At the same time, we have also reduced the debt service. The shortest surplus in the long term - without making the debt of purely present value - will bring enormous budgetary prosperity, because we will not have much to pay for the debt. Look! It's hard. Last year we have made the proposal that ESM buy the IMF debt, because one was 3,70 to 4,25 -- the IMF debt! - and the other was 1,20. But Mr. Shoeble didn't want to! That's clear. Last summer, at this time, we were talking about this thing. We were making a suggestion. Mr. Shoeble didn't politically accept it. He did not want the IMF to be dismantled, at least not to be owed to the IMF and all to the mechanism in Europe. This year we are discussing. It's a good thing to talk about. And we will also find a solution and it will be good for all Greeks, regardless of color and party. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I close with tourism. I want us all to be careful about this - I say this with all due respect and I do not want it to be misunderstood - because it is unacceptable that we should not be, when the government has made an excellent national tourism strategy. It did not start something that had strategy and came and continued a strategy. We made a strategy for the tourism industry. So this effort cannot be discredited. I would honestly say that 'it is forbidden' because the country's image is tourism. Tourism is industry. Our industry, our flag is tourism. We cannot say that we are making tourism or along with the dangers and the political brake that tourism is going too. You cannot say 'I wish the negotiation would end, but not so well, because you will benefit SYRIZA and ANEL' politically. Also, you cannot say 'tourism is going well, but it is not going so well'. Is it possible to shoot our feet through tourism? Is it possible for the Opposition to come and tell us that tourism is probably not going well this year when we have an increase in all indicators? Whatever I leave from Bank of Greece papers, but also the balances - whoever knows how to read these tables - finds that he's up this year. Help as a opposition to tourism. Don't fight him for political reasons, because we're all hurting home. Tourism is the one keeping our islands. The islands have problems. We've been through a tough negotiation, we've had elections, we've passed immigration! This country doesn't need someone to talk negatively about tourism. In other words, I consider those who are politically responsible at the moment are fighting tourism. Because anyone who does this wants to hide their own weaknesses and seeks to find political arguments where they do not exist. Find them anywhere else you want, but not in tourism!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u207	Mr. Kammene, you have taken more time and because you've come in suffocating and because you have many tables to deliver, but now you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u208	Thank you very much, Mr President. Forgive me for the tension, I wish you success, to vote and to make the decision we want on Tuesday. I hope that the Prime Ministers will welcome and applaud her and put on a tie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Papagelopoulos, you have a law-maker to present.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u210	Mr President, in the second subparagraph added to paragraph 3 of Article 229 of L.4281/2014 by Article 181 of the draft law, the following legal improvements are made: the words ‘may be deleted’. Two words. To explain this makes electronic submission compulsory rather than potential. There will be electronic submission of the declarations where you were going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u211	Mr. Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u212	Good evening, everyone. Let me take a breath first, while it's still tax free, and start. We have now decided that Parliament is dealing with this as a necessary evil. You want to end this obligation with a good one, and quickly. You have inside the bill, from forest maps, to the establishment of a digital policy secretariat. Each part of it could be a separate bill on its own, but you don't get bored, let's put it all in, let's go through it and consider it as an emergency, and let's put the sub-committees to the vote without even getting a reason for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u213	What arrogance is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u214	You don't like truths, you don't like them, but it's okay. Not even the legislators themselves react...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u215	Your father's handiwork is you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u216	I'll say it and don't like it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u217	Get down, where you're going to tell us "business"!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u218	And whoever doesn't like it, three exits come from here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u219	All right, all right, pick the same style, comrade. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Please! Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u220	I'm on it. Neither the legislators themselves nor the social bodies will react. You have such respect for Parliament and democracy. The main axis of the bill is a tax storm. The lenders asked you to cut costs, you explicitly and unconditionally preferred direct and indirect taxes for everyone. Let me summarize them briefly: Firstly, the factors of the additional ENPI are increasing, but they are also being increased for the calculation of ENPI on the plots. It also increases to legal persons. Secondly, VAT increases from 23% to 24%. Thirdly, with effect from 1 June the reduced rates of VAT on eleven islands have been abolished: Syros, Thassos, Andros, Tinos, Karpathos, Milos, Skyros, Alonissos, Kea, Antiparos and Sifnos. Fourthly, 5% on the fixed telephony and internet account and 10% on the pay-TV account. Fifth, since 2018, we have been putting a special end to hotels. The better hotels and rented rooms are, i.e. the more stars also have keys, the more they are punished by taxes. Sixth, luxury tax on leather clothing and footwear, works of art, jewellery and double tax on aeroplanes and helicopters. Seventh, retrospective increase in gambling. Eighth, since 2017, a special tax on conventional cigarettes and tobacco, electronic cigarettes and coffee. Ninth, the classification factors for IX cars are increased. Tenthly, taxes on fuel and heating oil are increasing. Eleventh, the tax on dividends is increasing. The company that dares to give a company car to some of its employees is also punished. In fact, according to the bill, you are asking the Secretary-General to commit to quantitative and qualitative objectives in advance. It is reported that it concludes a profitability contract with the Minister of Finance. In other words, the Government takes over the safari for recovery. You want, for example, to confiscate all of the incomes of a profitable company and you think it is a matter of the State's own ability to collect taxes. But, well, are you such financially ignorant? With 100% advance tax payment, a maximum tax scale of 45% from the first euro, 25% pension and health insurance contributions, a percentage trade fee and an ongoing control threat, do you expect a small and medium-sized businessman to respond? And do you have the nerve with so low broadband infrastructure in Greece, to impose 5% tax on fixed telephony and Internet connections? Good for you. We have also been head-oned by the following: With the pensions of June, the NSCR will last be given to about ninety thousand of the three hundred eighty thousand low pensioners. That is, a quarter of the low pensioners, who deserve it, loses it forever from your left government. In fact, you have explained that the low-pensions will retroactively return to you the CSR you have given them since the beginning of the year in twelve instalments. In addition, you have been justified, saying that this happens every year to those who lose the CSCE because of the overrun of the plaque. And well, to accept that the others, the anals, the neoliberals, as you say, were asking for a return to the CSCE as usual practice. You guys still doing this? If the previous governments did this, you would have burned the House with your indignant ones. And when Mr. Tsipras walked all over the country - villages, mountains, lagadia - and promised old people and old people that there would be no cuts, I wonder how he can sleep at night. As many cuts have been avoided by previous governments, so many taxes are put on multiples, even. And what's your account? That you guys are good and sad when you lead to the despair of small and medium - incomes. Well done again. You guys are very good - I don't concede - but you leave the government. We don't want any good kids in here. We want effective leaders and competent managers here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u221	Did you bring us to the government?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u222	He wants people with know-how and insight. He wants people with a technocratic perception of reality. We heard yesterday from a government MP saying publicly, at a popular radio station: 'Instead of increasing water and electricity, we tried to share in various species'. I mean, in coffee, drinking and cigarette, because some people, they say, don't do all three together. These are the last measures to secure the 1.8 billion. And I'm tabling the related links in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Unfortunately, that's your perception. You think that raising the cigarette tax only makes the smoker sad. Or raising it to luxury goods only sads the rich. And I wonder again how unrelated you may be to market rules. Don't you know that with huge taxation, there's going to be more business to do? Do you think that by increasing the cigarette tax you will reduce smoking? Do you know how many minimarkets you're gonna close? Do you know where you'll get the smuggling? I would remind you that it was 3% a few years ago and it's over 25% right now. And with the 0.50 minutes you want to increase, it will rise even further. Do you know how many taxes you're losing from smuggling cigarettes? You don't know, really, how many people will lose their jobs from those who work in enterprises that depend indirectly or directly on them? Don't you know that families will suffer? Don't you know that when a business closes, all the rest of the people get enclosed? No one has ever talked to you about chain reactions to free markets? For the rules governing private transactions? Or do you know all this, but you don't care? It seems that you are not concerned, ladies and gentlemen, and that a few 'boss' be fired. Isn't that what you call them private employees in your company? You are privatising a huge list of organisms and, indeed, in doses. Let us be clear: State limitation is a consistent demand from the Central Association. We believe that it is the basis for reforms, along with the liberalisation of closed professions. The sick state intervention, these pathogens that have eaten us all these years, are the number one cause of our antagonism. We must give space and breath to young people who now start their lives, with dreams and optimism. But you, you are depriving yourself of need, not of strategy. I submit to the Practical Relevant Source of the Real Estate Company with more than seventy thousand public and tourist properties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u223	You want to sell them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u224	I don't know if you're gonna sell them. It's your alternative cutter. So you don't cut off pensions, you'll be selling.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u225	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u226	To tell your terminology, you're selling. You sell out to cover holes, not to bring growth. You have a lack of know-how and attitude to bring this work to the benefit of the country. The privatizations if they are done correctly - not in the way you do - will bring public revenue through taxation and social security contributions. The same would happen if you even proceeded with the liberalisation of professions, which we do not believe will be the case, at least with the existing Parliament. Why did we get to have so many jobs today? Why so many special schemes and exceptions to such different branches? And that was - and even is - an important factor in great unemployment. The young man who wants to open up a business, linked to these closed professions, is leaving abroad, ladies and gentlemen, where he finds societies to appreciate his skills. I bring you the mistress, he abandoned us, not us. We need him and not him. We're suffering now. We will suffer over the next few years and not him. Why have there been as many pensioners as workers and should be four to one? The ratio is close to one by one. Why has our insurance system collapsed and reached the huge public debt close to 190% of our GDP? I will give you a simple and clear answer, emerged from our soul and experience of millions of fellow citizens. Because there was never a healthy economy in this country. You scattered misery and fear in Greek society and work and production. And you, as followers of the client state, and the previous governments of the last few decades, of course, have trained, all of you, in the last forty years, armies of peoples, who have considered themselves to work three hours daily, sealing documents and paying five and ten times more than the corresponding private sector position. All this social sepsis was viewed by your constituents as a right. They started borrowing for country houses, for second and third cars, because they thought they would always get these huge wages, these huge pensions, these huge ones. And when the cannon closed because the loan stopped, we're out of taxes. And when, as logically, these wages began to fall, these benefits in the public sector began the voices of demagogy from the poverty makers themselves: “Outside the foreigners who drink our blood. Down with the memorial tombs of death. Down with the germans, the donors, the Cholacoglou. In four!’ That's what you've been telling us for so long, and that's what you're telling us. Why do we, as traitors, swear our fellow citizens, who have shown little sympathy to the demands of European reform? I'll tell you why. Because you considered Greece the rushfetti and the misagent, you imposed as a characteristic of the Greek rag, baxes and arrow. Who gave you the right to give Greek this identity? Who told you gentlemen that your grandparents fought in the mountains to be appointed to the public, to the detriment of our other fellow citizens? Who raised up your youths writing libels and revolutionary texts on the right to appoint them, redeeming your ancestors' struggles? I'm not talking about it. I submit to the Minutes relevant sources.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u227	For what period, dear?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u228	For all periods. For the last 40 years, you've all been responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u229	Please don't interrupt. Let him say what he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u230	Don't interrupt me. I'll be out of time, and I'll have...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u231	Tell us an employee...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u232	Do you want me to tell you an employee? You want me to talk to you about rapper?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u233	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u234	Who gave you the right to hear the word 'Greek' abroad and to regard it as synonymous with the scoundrel and lazy? Do you know that right now that there are Greek scientists, Greek businessmen, Greek artists who are fighting abroad to reverse this unpleasant image that you have grown on their behalf? They start their transactions in distrust. The credibility of Greece abroad, at the moment we are talking, lies at the lowest point in its post-government history. You made us and you make us reckless to keep a little more in power, to represent a little more the multi-retired TEC of EUR 3,000, the slow-wage...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u235	You read what you're saying? "FINANCIAL TIMES" upside down, do you read?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u236	I read very well, Minister. ...the state official, the unskilled retired employee you recruit to the staff of your state planning, the state businessman, the newly-built trade unionist, the working father. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. You have divided society into two camps: those who produce and those who overcrowd. You, unfortunately, represent the latter. You've chosen a camp long ago. We, as the Central Association, tell the productive member of society that we support it, that we are with it whether it is in the public sector or in the private sector. And to those who provoke themselves to the detriment of the rest, to those who have identified Greekity with the hare, we tell them not to vote for us. We'll move on without them. We'll move on without you. We will move on with the healthy, productive part of society, which lives on the margins of politics, despising it. There are many of these, ladies and gentlemen, which is why you are concerned. We promise to find them and bring them to us, near the Centro Association, near Vasilis Leventis. We are voting against the bill in principle. We are safeguarding the articles. Good evening. Good evening. Good evening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u237	The Minister for Finance has the floor for some legislative improvements. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Please! Sit down. [[Noise - protests from the Ward of the Centroon Union]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u238	I have some legislative improvements to Articles 184 to 214. Most of them correct references to other articles in the bill, so they do not matter. Express mistakes are correct, which may create confusion, such as, for example, the report that they are transferred to the EBRD and mobiles, which have no assets, but only have real estate. Correct the reference to the accounts held with the Bank of Greece, so as not to create a management problem, which accounts are, in other words, the accounts. The report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament is taken into account and the reference to the procedures before the House is correctly illustrated, which has indicated to us how it should be formulated, which is what is being checked in the House, which some of you have the impression that there will not be. Annex C to Article 196, which includes the properties of the HICP is replaced. In fact it's four less, because four of them have already been transferred to third parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u239	Thank you. Mr. Christos Mandas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u240	Ladies and gentlemen, the majority of our people are experiencing a difficult, very difficult journey to this historic time. At first glance, there may not be historical proportions with the turbulent twentieth century, the extreme conflicts and disasters, the great hopes and the uplifting of hundreds of millions of people, as well as the great discrepancies, frustrations and at the same time conquests, but, on the scale of the first two decades of the first century, the majority of our people and our country, with the deep reconversions caused by the capitalist crisis of 2008, are really in the eye of the cyclone. Decades of anti-popular political choices and intertwined interests, which have deeply injured our people and the country, have led others to this position. Ladies and gentlemen, I am saying this because in these circumstances, at these difficult times, especially the Left cannot understand the great picture. At European level, and particularly within the European Union, conditions are likely to be abrupt changes, which may have a decisive effect on developments. A possible Brexit, the rapid rise of nationalist extremes and racist forces, the refugee crisis and many others are open challenges. Our own ship on this ferry sea travels. And yes, we want to pass Kavo Doro, closing the evaluation and reducing the unbearable debt, to clarify the scenery, but we will still be in troubled waters. That's the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is necessary, at this difficult juncture, that political controversy, however severe, be done on a real basis and with a sense of responsibility. And I think that this very thing has been missing from yesterday's debate, yesterday's debate and today's debate. We can go unbelievably against the data available, not with fantastic structures. You can criticise us at all levels, but the fact that the measure has been lost is as a result of knowing one thing. Your strategy of your all-time return to power is canceled by the very real evolution. That's what's behind these incredible images we've seen these days. That's why Mr. Samaras begins with the anodotus. That is why the central bank's intervention is not at all accidental at this particular moment. To have these in our minds. Ladies and gentlemen, I will talk about two specific things relating to the mechanism, the so-called cutting point, but also about the fund. First of all, I would like to remind you that this really very difficult evening, which the Greek delegation gave the battle of negotiation, from the German side, from Mr Shoeble, attempted a colpo group and that was the famous fund, not what is finally reflected in today's bill. You remember which seat and where. You remember what composition and where. You remember all this. We made a compromise. You can criticize us all you want, that's why. Critic, first of all, we are making ourselves from our point of view and we are fully aware that what was written as a compromise was not our choice and that is quite clear. So from a very different point of view, we see and face these difficulties. However, I would ask you very much in Part IV, i.e. the chapter of the draft law referred to in the fund, to read it carefully and to confront these elements. It is not possible, for example, for the purposes of the Fund not to read that, apart from the second on contributing to the reduction of the financial obligations of the Hellenic Republic, namely debt, it contributes funds to the realisation of the country's investment policy and to investment in strengthening the growth of the Greek economy, because, if we have achieved something - and I think it is extremely essential - that 50% of the use of this public property that goes through this fund can, in fact, be channelled into the development of the country, not only of the same elements and parts of the fund, but also of the country's development as a whole. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, I think that they have responded clearly and without any doubt, the issues relating to the Supervisory Board, the Board of Directors, whether they are Greek or not, whether they belong to the Greek territory, to the Greek public sector. I think that they have responded clearly, and there is no doubt about it. I shall say the last on this particular point. Who said, and where do you come from, that all of a sudden any parliamentary control in this process is forbidden? And much more if you look carefully at the provisions governing this law, the elements of transparency and accountability are much more than was the case at the TDI, which was a privatization fund. It's over and over! That's what this is about. In this we have an ideological conflict. We have a clear political difference. For us, this is a compromise. We don't have that view, if you like, of one-way privatisation. We don't have that view. We declare it to all tons. We don't hide that thing. However, do not tell us that 'you are deprived of the right to parliamentary scrutiny'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u241	You're depriving it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u242	No, it's not like that, Mr. Dendia, and you know it very well. I'm finishing up, and I'm saying a point for the cutter, and I'm closing up. I will not say what has already been said. I will say, however, that there is one point which has not been raised, in my opinion. There's Article 9. In this provision Article 9 has two escape clauses, if we find ourselves in a difficult position. One, of course, concerns natural disasters and the other concerns - so that we do not forget this - and I would like to read it out exactly as it is formulated - 'In the event of a delay in the real growth rate of GDP, which exceeds 0.5%, under the conditions of paragraph 2', etc., 'the country receives an automatic adjustment of the mechanism with a corresponding reduction in the deviation as set out in this paragraph'. In a simple way, when there is a real discrepancy, a real decline in the growth rate, then things are being reviewed and that is a possibility and an escape clause extremely important if all the evils are done together and, say, we fall into this difficulty.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u243	Good. Put a perfect one on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u244	I'm done. I beg your pardon very much, but give me thirty seconds to say this: we will continue the journey with determination, without arrogantness, with a sense of responsibility, with a sense of law and we will be judged not by the implementation of the programme that we have agreed, but above all by our prerequisites, by our ability to truly leave a left footprint on this path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Hatzidakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, St. Konstantinos and Helen today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u247	Happy birthday!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u248	Happy birthday!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u249	Thank you! It is about half of Greece, but I would say that in addition to this celebration, we also have a four-day celebration that started from the day before yesterday, with SYRIZA - ANEL government organiser. They're celebrating their big successes, as reflected in this bill. They celebrate, for example, social justice measures, which are promoted through indirect taxes, EUR 1.8 billion. According to the Government, they will be the industrialists who will buy more expensive food in supermarkets because of increased value added tax. They will be the shipowners and not the people's layers that will buy more expensive gasoline to move on with their cars. They will be the capitalists, not every Greek citizen, who will pay a more expensive phone after the predictions adopted by the law here. The government is celebrating, however, and the arrangements for red loans. I am watching, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, your logic of red loans. And I'm not going back to Genaris with the delusions, I'm going to September, when Mr. Tsipras was actually landed after the memorandum he voted for and spoke at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. There he said that one of the reasons why SYRIZA should be voted on was the management of red loans. What did he say? He said: "It is very different if there is to be a firm negotiation and claim that the bank's'red' loans will not go to the so-called distress funds, i.e. the crows, which will start chasing the borrowers and start the auctions." That's what Mr. Tsipras said in September. Mr Stathakis in December, when the first instalment of red loans was passed, told us the following and I read from the Minutes of the House: "So the whole debate that has been heard about the future liberation of housing and consumer small and medium-sized enterprises is out of the question." We are told by the Minister responsible, and today is the exact opposite. It is exactly the opposite of what you said to Genoa in "similarity", of what you said in September with Mr. Tsipras, from what you said in December with Mr. Stathakis. I don't know, but if we think about it, you might be right. What you said "no house in the hands of a banker" can be accomplished today. Because in the narrow sense, loans from bankers are indeed leaving the funds. You may have every reason, if we take this interpretation, to celebrate, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. You're celebrating for another reason, obviously. You celebrate because you will exploit - not by privatisations and concessions, you will obviously have butterflies flying and putting children's joys in - public property. Mr. Tsipras once again, known for his credibility in the Greek and the entire world, I think, had said - and I have it here, but I do not read it all, so that I do not waste time - that one of the reasons why SYRIZA should be voted on is that we would privatise nineteen assets of the TSED, while you only have nine. Only nine, huh? I'll tell you later where you're going today. He also said in September, after delusion, that 'we are not talking about divestment, but we are talking about deep-sighted exploitation'. He said it on 7.9.2015 in PPC: “Third-year evaluation”. So what do we have today? And tell me if I'm wrong. Is it true or not, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that we have not been talking for thirty years, but for a century, in fact, for ninety-nine years?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u250	For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u251	This Fund will take a large piece - almost all - of public property by 2115! This is being voted today!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u252	It'd be better in three years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u253	That's the first. While loans, as you know, last for thirty-five years. Secondly, is it true or not that you are giving a huge piece of the property and are it actually excluded from the Acropolis and the museums, the yachts and the forests? Everything else is going or they can go to this superstition. Is it true or not that, in addition to those granted today, can, on the basis of the provisions of Article 196(6), go any other property by ministerial decision and only without control of Parliament in the EBRD? Is it true or not that the troika has veto in all decisions through the Supervisory Board, which also controls the Governing Council? Is it true or not that the Greek Parliament with today's shameful decision, which you are ready to vote on, is excluded for a century from the control of public property? For a century you have excluded control of the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u254	You're doing the wrong thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u255	And the corrections made by Mr. Tsakalots are only allowed to be heard, while the law of the GOD is in agreement. And that is why today, because of this law, the convention on the regional airports of the previous one for the GIDE is going through. And is it true or not - because you say that we voted on the memorandum - that the summer memorial said nothing about all of this and, above all, said nothing about ninety years and the exclusion of the House from all these procedures? Ladies and gentlemen, because I am a little old, I cannot forget the SYRIZA trade unions outside my office throwing eggs at the modernisation plan for the OSCE, and today you are putting the whole OSCE to privatise. I cannot forget your protests and complaints about Olympics, from which we saved 1 million euros a day. I cannot forget what Mr Tsipras said here, that with the OECD toolbox we are putting a rope to hang the Greeks and today you will pass all the provisions that we have not passed through the toolbox. So what is happening, ladies and gentlemen - and I believe - is that many people say that SYRIZA is a party that deceived the citizens, it is a demagogic party, it is a populist party - that you have been in a higher sphere. You're a blooming party. Eat your lotions today and go to vote on everything you complained about before! Move you as germans today! Because what else can anyone say? You've overcome all fantasy! You've overcome all fantasy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u256	You're too... You've gotten over it. Adonis beat you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u257	Mr. Hatzidakis, will you please finish? Time's up. And I didn't think you'd use any of your time for that characterization.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u258	I shall conclude, Mr President. And if you, ladies and gentlemen, were to bring about a result, you would say 'parts will be done'. But what happens is that the Greek economy, instead of moving forward, is sinking back into the well of recession. And how would it be different? You are a government that you are only doing to achieve budgetary adjustment is to impose taxes, taxes and taxes. You're celebrating for taxes. On the other hand, you are slandering all structural changes, which you are forced to move forward. What is happening - to paraphrase Kavafis - is that, are your efforts, those of contempt, like the Trojans, and in the end you get to your neck all of Greece, all of the Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, a solution remains to be found: to leave as soon as possible to start a new course for the country! It's the only solution for Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u259	That lyric wasn't from Kavaphis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-one students and students and three school attendants from the 8th Eleftherios Cordeliou School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Efstath Saltaris-Georgopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. I would particularly like to address the opposition, especially those parties, which, in the conscience of our people, have been identified by bankruptcy and by extremist extortion and compromise forces of our country. They are the parties of 'yes' without conditions in ultimatum and blackmail. They are the parties that stood against the choice to end austerity and comitology. They are the parties that have stood in the way of our national expression and politically opposed to extortion. Nowadays, neoliberal forces have discovered another area of political distortion, the ESS, which I would remind you - for those who do not remember - was established by the then government in 1997 by an act of legislation, and was the key electoral record of the PASOK. In total contrast to what you are accusing us of left-wing populism, the coalition voted against this measure because it acted as charity to the low-wage pensioners, did not solve the problem of tax evasion and operated in anti-elections. In his place, the current Minister of Vangelis Apostolos, Member of Parliament at the time, had mentioned the need to reconnect with the twenty-days of the unskilled worker if the lower pension is calculated at 80% of the pensions paid and if all pensions increased each year in accordance with the collective labour agreements of the active workers. The coalition then asked the government to regulate the whole pension issue in order to really alleviate pensioners. Who's justified and who's populating? As it turns out, our relationship with populism is a relationship of timeless confrontation, and our relationship with the people is truly existential. Instead of giving a real solution, as we have noted, you have chosen to artificially charge the budget and cover up the bigtimers and generalized tax evasion, knowing that you are leaving a time bomb at the hands of society. In 2010, the Law of Loverdus does not mention a single word on the continuation of the CSR as of January 1, 2015. You've practically abolished it. Mr. Brutsis - in support of this - said in September 2014 that he was preparing a recommendation to stay at least in 2015. That's the reality. We, with the blood sacrifices of the citizens, kept the CSCE in 2015, for the majority of 2016 and 2019. But it must be our priorities to activate all positive, progressive and realistic thoughts so that there can be improvements and relief for all those who are wronged. We're listening to a country sale. However, we will in no way legislate against a debt repayment fund by 25%. You introduced through the GOI that 100% of the public debt you ejected should go. Who was that then, who first stated that we can get EUR 50 billion from the militarisations? Who's the one who built the TIAD in 2010? Who opened the creditors' apparel? You are talking about investment, which in 2014 was 23 billion, while in 2008, the economic crisis first manifested, it was 57 billion. This is the largest deinvestment in the developed world. This "success" belongs to technocrats and neoliberals, of course. And to mention Mr Leventis, who looks at the technocrats, I would say that the government of Papademos contributed to a huge disinvestment in the economy, during the period when Mr Stournaras was Minister of Finance and was talking about recovery in 2012. May I remind you of another position of Mr Venizelos in the House in April 2015, when he defended the 2010 loan contract and said: 'Would we stay as we are in 2009 or go to this situation? Not a cumulative recession of 25%, but a radical and immediate loss of 75% of GDP. No unemployment 26%, but unemployment 60%.' That was the dilemma, a placement beyond false, populist, and nurtured. Basically, with the percentages claimed by Mr Venizelos, there would be a GDP of about 50 to 60 billion, a huge humanitarian crisis and unemployment - three million two thousand unemployed - who similarly did not exist anywhere in the history of the economy. We were threatened with 75% recession, because you also signed that in 2012 we would go out to growth, where instead of growth, we had a 7% recession. In simple terms, you reveal the absolute conclusion of the country and the immediate and absolute tradition of any concept of national sovereignty and mortgage on all the wealth of the country. There should also be a search for creditors' arrangements for a guarantee fund. You're talking about VAT. You have led the country to the seventh highest VAT in the European Union, and now you are escalating, because we have reached the fifth with 24%. I say to you that we do not think that competitiveness and purchasing power are improving with this measure, but we, in total contrast with you, are taking this fundamental measure, so that wages and pensions are not slaughtered, as you agreed horizontally. While you have launched VAT in order to fail all targets within the memorandum and not to pursue tax evasion, we are committed to bringing legislative initiatives immediately and setting the target for tax evasion and tax evasion. I can hear you talking about tsunami taxation, which creates problems in the real economy. In fact, I think it is a matter for you to be ashamed of. In the older period of growth, instead of contributing to the productive progress of the economy, you have given everything to parasite, with a tragic result of 30 billion deficit in the 2008 trade balance, the largest deficit as a percentage of GDP in the developed world rather. When SYRIZA in 2004 tabled a proposal for a law establishing the minimum guaranteed income, in a country with 7% unemployment, you voted against it, when it was already applied to the majority of the countries of the European Union. You'd rather throw your money at friends, national contractors, canalarchs, your friends who served from here and there for customer relations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the bill will be voted on, because it is a mandatory universal intervention procedure, as a result of the correlations currently recorded at international and national level and is a necessary step towards the closure of the evaluation that, as I have said, is a necessary condition for stopping the destabilisation of the economy and society. The vicious cycle of destabilisation of the country, which started in 2010 and is constantly growing. Since January 2015, there have been degrees of freedom for a democratic way out, no matter how hard the forces of subjection and neoliberalism have been trying to talk about the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Papagelopoulos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by amending the law on the submission and control of statements of assets, we aim at fast but also effective control of these statements. The main differences, in relation to the structure of the legislation in force, which are governed by the draft law are as follows: The Asylum Statement Control Committee established by Article 3A of Law No.3213/2003, where applicable, is limited to the receipt, processing and control of statements of assets only of the Prime Minister, the Heads of political parties represented in the national or European Parliament, as well as those receiving state funding, the Ministers, the Deputy Ministers, the State Secretarys, the MPs, the Members of Parliament and, finally, those managing the economics of the political parties represented in the national or European Parliament, while the district directors, the mayors and the Secretary-General are added. The faces may have heard a lot, but I must inform you that they do not exceed a thousand, and so far this committee received about 100 000 declarations a year, which meant that it did not even have a chance, much more to check on these statements. This will ensure that these declarations are checked, while the large volume of other declarations will be returned to the committee, the third control unit for declarations of property, the anti-money laundering authorities. This is an experienced body, which has had competence for three years. It therefore has full knowledge of the subject and is independent of the central administration. In this way, rapid and effective control of political persons and other persons whose statements are stacked there will be achieved. But we didn't stay in this. We have strengthened the Article 3a committee with two more persons from the judiciary, from a State Adviser and his deputy, but also from the Citizens' Counselor and his deputy, and the judicial authorities will be appointed by decision of the Supreme Court. So the majority will not have it, as it has already been done, but will have it with political persons. It is another guarantee of objective control over statements of assets. The chairman of this committee will remain the chairman of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency to mark the central role in Parliament's democracy. We are also strengthening the committee, the third control unit for statements of assets with two other members, as well as with administrative staff, so that they can respond to the large volume of work. For the first time, we are establishing that those in debt are obliged to declare the lockboxes - not the content - and the cash, credit liabilities, but any debt arising from fines or any other debt, because experience has shown that credit contracts are a successful form of money laundering. The obligation of all the auditing mechanisms and the committee to report back to the House's Committee on Institutions and Transparency, to the Finance and Justice Ministers, Transparency and Human Rights is laid down. The report will also be posted on Parliament's website. In this way, all citizens will be able to be informed of the work of the committee. This is how the committee's accountability is achieved. The establishment 3a of the committee's obligation to report on the facts shall also take into account the relevant Latin numbering IX recommendation of the group of States against corruption, known as the ‘GRECO’, as reflected in its latest reports. All statements of the assets under the control of the Committee of the Parliament are established to be compulsory, including declarations of the mayors, municipalities of less than fifty thousand inhabitants. The time within which additional declarations may be made shall be limited by establishing the deadline for the submission of additional information. It's 30 days after the deadline for submission. At the same time, guarantees are provided in the clarification procedure. A late declaration may be made within 30 days. We are adapting to the current tax legislation the concept of non-domestics, because so far there have been various problems and companies which have as their head office not designated as cooperatives in the tax sector. This has a significant impact, so that the necessary checks can be carried out. Finally, the Prosecutors of Athens and Thessaloniki and the Prosecutors of Athens and Thessaloniki are appointed as an Deputy Prosecutor and an Deputy Prosecutor, who will handle the proceedings resulting from the criminal acts of this law. We are also moving towards speeding up the completion of the electronic reporting process. Within two months of the law being passed, the electronic system will run for all categories of debtors. I think that all these amendments are in the right direction, they have taken into account the recommendations made by GRECO, but also the mistakes and omissions that had been noted since previous years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, too. Mr. Bunny from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u264	Thank you. First of all, I would like to start by denouncing the procedure that we have come here today to discuss a very serious multi-brand plan, which is about the future of our country and of the next generations. Wednesday morning, around 12 o'clock, you didn't even have the opportunity to give us in writing the specific multi-project and you gave it to CD, so that we could see it, read it and see what's going on and what's in there. There was, of course, no reason, because the Parliamentary Republic, as it has been working in our own country in recent years, has become totally degraded, so it doesn't matter whether anyone reads it or does not read it. As was the case here, the vast majority of Members have not read it, because it was not possible to read seven - seven - and a half thousand pages. Let a Member here tell us from the hundred and fifty-three who will vote for it what he says in particular, and if he knows what he will vote for. Of course, he does not know, as other Members did in the past. Mr Chrysochidis then confessed that he had voted for the first memorandum without knowing what he said. It doesn't matter. So they're gonna do it now, too. One hundred and fifty-three kanados will vote for this bill, in three, four, two, five months they will have left the Greek Parliament, because the Greek people will have sent them home again. However, these measures, which will have taken to the detriment of the Greek people, will continue to exist and exist, until a national Greek government is able to stand up and stop what is being done. So we were present and witnessed at a theater of irrationality, supposedly - I say again - at the border of democracy that various bodies come to speak to the committee, which we called on them to take up a race for three minutes, not even get people to step down and make four committees in one day. Who can hear, watch, see where he agrees, see where he disagrees, discuss all this. But you don't care about any of this. We're talking about this so the Greek people can hear it. The only thing you are interested in is that these seven - seven and a half thousand pages should pass with as little reaction as possible - either within or outside Parliament - and, unfortunately, that is what you are doing, because only the Golden Dawn is the one that cries to defend the two of the Greek people, who have not taken a hamper from the blows he receives, what comes to him every day. Apart from Parliament, unfortunately, the world is so disappointed that it sits at its house. This is the accident for our country. We therefore see a rapid process being carried out - I repeat again - so that nothing can be read and discussed, only a few generalities can be heard. So that's why you're very smart and well done in this particular, bring in the well-known, well-known cutter, as we call him, who says what? When Greece has not achieved its objectives every 31 May, there will be a presidential decree - for the Greek people to listen to it - it will not even be voted on by the Greek Parliament - we will not even trouble you with votes, a hundred and fifty three, someone may not vote for it, let us help him out a little - and this Presidential Decree will be passed and these measures, at the expense of the Greek people, will continue and will be implemented, without anyone taking a hamparily. So that is what the left-wing government has done right now or rather that. Not just that. So I repeat, to hear the Greek people, that since 31 May these measures will not even pass by the Greek Parliament. I would like to make a proposal to you, as Golden Dawn, because we see that you are giving everything to European loan sharks, to global loan sharks, obviously. You had granted public enterprises, you said here about PPC, ELVO, Attica METRO, Building Infrastructure, PPC. Of course, because of some pressure, you took it back, supposedly not now in two or three months, with one amendment one night, some time in the Fifteen, you will pass it and all this will be done. But do so, since you have done so and since nothing will be voted on by the Greek Parliament, give and pass on to the Greek Parliament. He's sick now. He has nothing to offer the Greek citizen. All he has to do is give him damage. Just damage! And the measures taken over the last few years, but mainly in the last six years, have only to do with how they will trouble and smash the Greek taxpayer. That's your purpose. You've come and become the best system and globalisation children. Of course, the alternative, which is supposed to exist from New Democracy, is the one that has brought us here and brought you to the government. This is the alternative you have for Greece. Again, we repeat that there will be no alternative in Greece if there is no nationalist, dynamic government, that is to say if some people do not say that these agreements are not complied with here. That's the only way our country can be justified. And it is not respected - because it is not your right - what has been agreed. With this assignment made by the "Greek" Parliament to the world power for nine and a hundred years, for a century from now on, you are currently committing everything for the next generations, when you make Greek birds live with a plunged head and not freely in the homeland that is born. In this respect, when some who have the courage to resist come forward, they will say that these agreements are not being complied with. There will be other agreements that will be followed. In fact, those who voted for all this will be placed before their responsibilities. Because you've played enough at the expense of the Greek people. Who really gave you your right for a hundred years, for a century, to grant our homeland? Did anyone give it to you? We were four hundred years slaves through wars and you come today and you grant everything - sea, ports, airports, buildings, everything that exists - to our lenders for a hundred years. Who gives you, gentlemen, that right? However, as Golden Dawn, we are not giving it to you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] So if you want to mortgage something, you will mortgage your villas, your cars, your limos, where you are circulating and the properties you have in the banks. That's what you're going to do, because they're yours. We're not talking about everyone, of course, because they're stolen. They have not acquired them in legal ways. Some have been stolen from the Greek people. So you should go and put these in a mortgage, but not the property and the Greek area. You have no right. We didn't have you to make your country a little bit. We did not make you give Greece as you wish, cut it and share it. I would like to say a great deal, but in these seven minutes that we are given, we unfortunately do not have time to say almost anything. I repeat and denounce that this is why. I would just like to say, for one, one and a half minutes, a few things about how the fourteen airports in our country have been given, how you have sold them out. Article 218, therefore, states that no charges or taxes shall be imposed on concessionaires by any municipal or other local authority for services of general interest, lighting, safety, cleaning, collection of waste and sewerage. I mean, they won't pay anything. They will be eaten in the health of the Greek suckler, the Greek taxpayer. Let us then say that they have the right to take out any micro-enterprises that exist in airports at the moment, namely cafés, car rentals, some small shops that sell newspapers. They can throw them out at all times and at all times, without giving account to anyone, because they want to. As far as HNVIA is concerned, this German company - which you are so fighting the Germans and you are their best ladders - will not pay HNVIA, unlike any sad Greek who has a house of forty square meters and ask him to pay the hair of his head to cover it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to finish by mentioning once again why all this is happening, which is too much. Let us tell you, then, that this German company obliges the state to facilitate visas and residence permits for officials outside the European Union, hired by the company with their families. That is, they will bring workers from different countries, they will give them hunger wages, they will not get any Greeks to work there and they will force you - of course you will - to give your permission and your approval to this thing. This obscured bill, like all the rest, the Golden Dawn is not going to vote on it. We'll oppose all our forces on this. As for the abusive lines, which we heard a moment ago in the morning, we are told here by some Presidents of Parliament "Why are you shouting?", we have to answer that if we weren't yelling and if we weren't mad at what we were seeing, we would be like you. Fortunately, we're not like you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u265	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-eight students and students and four educational attendants from the 35th Elementary School of Heraklion Crete. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Iglezis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing the latest budgetary measures, on the basis of the agreement. These are measures which, admittedly, are difficult for all of us, both for society and for the government, but also for us Members. It is, however, the last measures, in order to follow up with surely steps as a society and an economy in another perspective, different from the one the previous governments had planned. We are in the process of voting on the last measures, most of which the opposition backed last summer, although, ladies and gentlemen, you seem to have forgotten. From the many regulations that we are debating today, which I consider to be important and with a special environmental mark, which may seem to be weaker, but which are very concerned, especially those who have a look at the Government's moves on environmental and action issues, which overthrow memorial laws and indicate that negotiation can be effective in the interests of the public interest. I am referring to the regulations on'small' PPC and IPTOE, but also to forest maps, which are directly related to the country's development prospects. By these rules, the Government achieved something that was neither easy nor given: it annulled the memorial privatisation laws relating to the creation and sale of the "little" PPC, by the removal of 30% of PPC and the sale of 66% of IPTO, the subsidiary of PPC, which manages the electricity transmission networks. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is a political victory. The new provisions guarantee the public character of both PPC, as well as the high-voltage network held by IPTO, an important policy-making tool in the energy sector. The absolute safeguarding of the majority of the public, combined with the complete segregation of PPC, as well as the partnership with a company operating networks in Europe, is expected to resurrect this development tool in order to support even more effectively and in the right direction the country's overall effort to exit the country from recession and austerity. Today, the solution promoted, ensures that PPC remains the strong electricity company, but within an environment of burden-sharing and risks. This is contrary to previous governments' plans for the violent liberalisation of the market by the secondment of "small" PPC and its delivery to private individuals, on the pretext of balance of competition. The social dimension of the supply of electricity at adequate and low prices can now be effectively supported. We need, ladies and gentlemen, new public tools for productive reconstruction, with a social commitment to organise and operate them. The energy market is changing. New targets for carbon reduction and an increase in renewable energy are set by the Paris climate agreement. The changes that are coming are important, and the solution is not neoliberalism, but neither a misguided state of affairs of the past. This is where the arrangements for forest maps come in. The existence of validated and undeniable forest maps is necessary, not because it is a monumental obligation, but because it is an important tool for developing and environmental policy. To date we do not have valid forest maps, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that hundreds of thousands of euros have been spent. This is not only because of the problems of the public administration, but mainly because of the retreat of the previous governments, of the customer bonds that they have created with all those who have been illegal and dissatisfied for many years against the environment. The arrangements envisaged reflect the clear political will to definitively record the country's forests and protect public property. Only if and when we have forest maps and logbooks - in this order and not the return, to which we have been driving all these years - then we will be able to talk about stopping the pathogenesity of the past. The process and unlocking of the forest maps described in the proposed regulations are important. They are reinvolved in public forest addresses. This is not by insistence on anachronisms and conceptions of stateism, but because they are the responsible monitoring and defence services and forests and public property. Because the public sector cannot be decorative or a mere mediator for the allocation of funding. Because we have to have a public sector that operates essentially to defend the public interest, providing high-level services and know-how. In the context of a specific and close timetable for forest maps, there is a scope for public-private cooperation, either under the guidance of forest addresses or under the guidance of the CRP, which should submit priorities in relation to the landmark plan. Such cooperation with the private sector should enter new bases so that the most rare public money is not wasted and that there is a reliable and high quality result. More operational procedures are being established, and the shortening of the times required for the work of forest maps, which are reflected in specific timetables at each stage of the process. The aim is to complete the forest maps along with the realisation. There is still an attempt to address the problems that have arisen from the failure to establish and operate the opposition committees. As part of the acceleration of the project and the immediate suspension of the already considered forest maps, efforts are being made to minimise the objections that will be received by the committees for examining objections. [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member rings.]] In this context, the attempt to unblock the process of suspension and ratification of forest maps by the urban problems associated with the lawfulness of approval or even the absence of approval of the country's plans or settlements is part of the effort. In essence, a procedure is introduced in which different procedures are created for the suspension and ratification of forest maps for these areas. This is where the criticism of these arrangements is concentrated, in particular in the articles describing the portrayal of the settlements and town plans, depending on their degree of legitimacy and the completion of their town planning. The legally approved settlement limits are captured in orange color. The norms, but not approved settlement limits before 1923 with yellow and the informal non-institutional contours and no limits of settlements, which do not correspond to settlements before 1923 and are not covered by any of the conditions of the yellow limit category, are vividly reflected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u267	Time limits are over, Mrs. Iglezi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u268	I will not be late, Mr President. This is an issue that no one else has spoken about and that needs to be heard. And I insist, ladies and gentlemen, on these points, because the way the disputed structure of forests and forest land is being dealt with so far is the reason for the lack of forest maps to date. It is the reason for continuing all kinds of arbitrariness. Furthermore, it is the reason why the client state has been perpetuated, which has been set up for so many years by bipartisanism. It is clear that the present government bears the costs of mapping and safeguarding the country's forests. And along with it it is coming to highlight all the urban problems of at least the last forty years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u269	My colleague, your time is up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u270	In the previous speaker, you have zeroed the time, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u271	My colleague, I've given you two minutes extra. How much do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u272	The neology of settlements has upset public opinion. But the time has come to deal with reality. We want to protect forests and stop arbitrary. But this cannot be done voluntarily. The disputed structure cannot once again detain the completion of the forest maps and jeopardise the country's realisation. It is undeniable that a forest map is drawn up for all regions. It is undeniable that until the definitive resolution of town planning issues, forest legislation will continue to apply to the yellow and violet regions. No inch of protection of nature and forests is prevented. It's not legalized by anyone who's dissatisfied. The management of all kinds of settlements or densities does not imply self-evident and pluralism. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also environmental management. This must not be underestimated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u273	Mrs Bakoyannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I want to say is my unlimited admiration for the SYRIZA parliamentary group. I have been in Parliament for many years, and one of the things I've always been afraid of, it has been not to find a journalist, a video, a statement, and to bring it to me and to tell me "Mrs. Bakoyannis, that's what you said then, and that's what you're saying today. When did you deceive the Greek people?" It is incredible, ladies and gentlemen, what I have experienced in the last three days. Your pleasure is unbelievable, your happiness is unbelievable, your confidence is unbelievable. How do you do that? In other words, you must be aces to acting. It is incomprehensible that people who had come to the bars, who were here with the agitated, people who did not leave a demonstration for protest, people who took us to the TV windows, saying we drink the blood of the people, that we sell the Acropolis, we sell everything out, they come to the Greek Parliament today and they support this bill in good pleasure. Ladies and gentlemen, do you honestly believe that the Greek people eat spoon? Do you honestly believe in the statement I heard in the committee yesterday, that the only burden the four-member family will have is only EUR 7 per month, that when the bill comes to the four-member family, this will be eaten unreliable? Do you really think you can tax everything? Whatever's moving. I told my colleagues to write to me all the taxes we have now - let the ones we have voted in the past - you go up and the list is endless and my time will be over. Let's go from beer to coffee - but of course, to SYRIZA, you never drink beer and coffee, as I have heard. Only some people in this country may drink beer and no coffee, and they are charged with both. It's incomprehensible what you're doing, but the worst of all is this. By 20 days ago you told us that you would not put any tax from your Parliamentary representative, who would return to the channels to your Minister Mr. Skourletis, who honoured me to assure me and to commit himself to the Greek people. "What do you say, Mrs Bakoyannis, poorly, Mrs Bakoyannis, you say this. We will never increase diesel." I was telling him that the poor have taken a car with diesel. But it's clear, SYRIZA loves so much the poor that he wants to raise them, because if he doesn't increase them, he'll find it very difficult. So the number of poor people in Greece must grow and I assure you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that you will achieve it. You will do so, in fact, you will also pooren up a large part of Greek society and the result, unfortunately, you will not have it, because you have admitted yourself that the measures will be material. You admitted it yourself. So what does that mean? That the remission spiral will just grow. And what does that mean? That the targets will not be achieved. And you know that very well - and this is really what I cannot understand - that you are introducing taxes that you will not collect, because the Greeks' tax capacity has been exhausted and therefore, the revenues will be reduced and so we will go to the famous cut. And I don't know what phase we're at now, I don't see any relevant Minister here, but in any case every day the terminology of the cutter changes, but I'm sure you'll remember who the most modern is. The result, however, is that you will cut costs and be forced to cut costs unravelly and you will not choose them. While, if you had cut costs selected, as suggested by the New Democracy at first, you would not have put that tax, you would not have killed the economy and the small business could have survived, contrary to what you are doing. I want to come to the cashier. And I want to confess to you, ladies and gentlemen, that I am a liberal man. I guess you're on your way. He also knows that I, unlike you, have always believed in the militarisations, always believed in the least state, and I have always believed that the private sector should do the business in Greece and, in any case, not the state. It was an ideological difference that SYRIZA, the Left - the so-called one because you stopped being left - and we did. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So, when the debate was held in New Democracy at the theoretical level, I was basically in favour of the New Democracy voting for the new fund. I thought well, that, uh, a fund would make people, put G.B. in. I didn't think you'd have the OAS too, because I calculated that your services would tell you that it's a Olympic property and it doesn't belong to the state at all. But all right, with fifty a piece of legislative improvements that you brought in, you put in buildings that you already sold. But where I was ready to vote, I started reading. And the evil, ladies and gentlemen, is that there are MPs who read from the first article to the last. I suggest you do it yourself. I suggest you read what this fund will do. For three days in Parliament, I am trying to convince your Government to add a phrase, which says that what is going to be demoralized, to go to the fund, will be decided by the Greek Parliament. A phrase! The Scientific Council of the Parliament tells you. Everyone tells you. No, you! Oh, no! [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member rings.]] Wait a minute, Mr President, you will allow me to have the time that my colleague in the Chamber has had. Why, ladies and gentlemen? Do you know why? Because the reality is what I told you. That the only thing you excluded is the archaeological sites, the fields of the Ramsar Treaty and the fields of the Natura Treaty. And all this reason that Mr Katrugalos took us out yesterday, for those who were here in Parliament, on the Civil Code etc., you know very well today - and you know that, because it is in front of you - that it is fresh air, that it does not exist. And in the laws that are not explicitly excluded, it is allowed, which means that the fund, which will be managed for a hundred years, says, with great success, the property of the Greeks, will be able without democratic control to have the entire Greek property. Is it, Mr. Maniattes, for the hydrocarbons? Is there anything else going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u275	And where did you find it written, ladies and gentlemen, that you have the right to do that? I have told you from the outset that we are not giving this right to you. We are not giving it to you by the liberals, we who believe in the demilitarisation, we who have never put water on our wine, and we have never been in a demonstration to shout against COSCO and lick the other day where we were spitting. These things we haven't done. But this fund, on these terms, is a shame, it is a tradition of national sovereignty. You don't have that right. You don't have that right against our children, you don't have it against our grandchildren. For ninety-nine years, the only contract that some of my friends of the JRC have been able to find, who are always better informed of this, was the Guantánamo Convention, as they have told me. I assure you, when Germany signed the degrading Versailles Convention, this Convention, which was the cause of World War II, was not a fund. It is therefore a disgrace, ladies and gentlemen. Not only will we vote against it, not only will we fight it, not only will you not find us allies, but you know one thing. The responsibilities you have will be blamed for you. Be careful because you can change your mind, you may not be ashamed, you may have no problem with consciousness about what you say and what you do today, but one thing is certain. From one point to another in politics, responsibilities are attributed to both parties and to persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u276	We will give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vasilis Kokkalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u277	Mr President, the first-cycle list of speakers is not over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u278	I didn't understand you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u279	Mr President, we have agreed another thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u280	Then some speakers will speak. Then...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u281	We said to end the first cycle and then the parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u282	What are these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u283	Don't shout, please. We will proceed with a change, with respect for time. Mostly, that's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u284	You come and you change it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u285	When was that decided? Who decided that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u286	Just quiet down, please. You have the floor, Mr. Red.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u287	Mr President, for the sake of all the speakers, I will try to be as brief as possible. Mr. Amyra...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u288	I didn't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u289	I'm talking about my colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to vote on a bill, which is the result of the summer's agreement, a bill requiring specific prerequisites. Unfortunately, however, we find political hypocrisy. We find political hypocrisy when opposition parties protest us on why we bring this bill. Evidently, two things may happen: Or they didn’t read the bill or lie. To remind you of some specific things, because the situation has escaped from the opposition. Law4336/2015: "In addition as a prerequisite, the Government" - the one that would be elected in the elections of 20 September - "will adopt legislation to increase revenues: First, the gradual abolition of the Special Tax on Petroleum consumption, diesel for farmers. Secondly, the increase in the tonnage tax. Targeting and limiting expenditure’. Do you forget that, gentlemen of counterpopulation? Let me remind you a few more. He said that the package of measures - you voted on it - will include further measures with a fiscal impact, such as public administration reforms, reforms to address deficiencies in the collection and enforcement of taxes. I guess you're forgetting about it or not reading it or lying. Pick. Thirdly, it said that the government elected after 20 September, in order to demonstrate its commitment to implementing reliable budgetary policies, will adopt a supplementary budget. It will include a television advertising tax, an increase in the tax rate. Perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, you will forget. You forget intentionally. You're lying to the Greek people. Aren't you lying? Then you didn't know what you were voting for. You didn't read it. This is called political hypocrisy. Is that the truth pact you've made with the Greeks? Lying? Unfortunately, you have been trapped in an opposition political protester. You are in danger of a protest party being held by responsible opposition parties. I'm coming to the bill now. The red loans arrangements were not included in the agreement that you voted for, gentlemen of the Disarmament? Yes or no? The answer is yes. Let us see, however, now who is responsible for red loans, who has managed and who best manages red loans. First of all, the overcompensation of 2009 became a major problem for Greek society. Overcharge was the result of easy lending, non-compliance with the principle of responsible lending by banks, easy loans - the special speaker from the Central Association said so, and quite rightly - the easy money, the countryside, what created the opposition's vision in which the party that dominated was PASOK. He gave the Greeks a false hope. 2010 begins overcompensation. Let's see what the governments have done up to now and what this government is doing. Because you say that we do nothing, absolutely nothing, not just a few things. Red loans were 22 billion in 2009. Today is 110 billion. What did the governments do? Absolutely nothing. They postponed the problem every year, thus creating the second generation of those in debt. Because when you postpone the problem and do not solve it, when you suspend auctions to auctions globally and without criterion, and the one who had to pay then what did he do? He didn't pay. Today he's overdebted. This government with this bill provides security margins for borrowers in case of transfer of red loans. Who are these? People now want the truth, and the truth isn't with hips. We must finally say things with their name. With justice it brings this bill and justice, not only with the protection of the weak, but also with the protection of informed debtors. Do you know how many people have said why we're paying the loan? As one says very reasonably, we cannot pay our loans. The security differences are therefore as follows: no company, which will take over the loan, can unilaterally amend the contract. Whoever it is can't raise the interest rate. The fact that it cannot change the contract unilaterally is said that the debtor's economic and material position is not deteriorating. The present draft law determines the principal farmer's profession. It was a request to the farmer on the roadblocks. How many years have elapsed until we determine which is the main profession of a farmer? Too much. The principal farmer will now have tax relief. We brought the bachelor. Recently, at a meeting of the Federation of Thessaly Farmers with Mr Apostleus, all representatives of livestock associations, in Thessaly, at least, recognised that this measure, the bachelor's, had to have been introduced for many years already. The New Democracy had reacted with a relevant press release. With the OGA bachelor, on the one hand, it takes money, on the other hand, farmers, and farmers, on the other, justify the money they give foreign workers and, on the other, foreign immigrants, who have been in Greece for years. Ladies and gentlemen, according to ELSTAT's report, the debt in 2015 was reduced by 8 billion. The debt reduction agreement is too close. We are not celebrating or rejoicing, because we believe - and this is our main difference - that debt is not sustainable, while previous governments believed that, unfortunately, it is sustainable. No, ladies and gentlemen, Greece's debt is not sustainable, and at the moment the government is fighting and will succeed in reducing, making a road map, opening the way to investment, to investors, because only knowing that Greece can pay its loans, can it invest, otherwise not. Unfortunately, we hear voices from the opposition, which are saying, 'Get the country to the cliff'. Unfortunately, you want the evaluation to fail. Over the last few days some voices have been heard from the Qualified Opposition that they may vote for many of the provisions of the bill. They were questioned and, finally, they did not vote for it. The national responsible attitude for you is to vote on it. It's a one-way street because you knew what you voted for in July 2015. Don't hide behind your finger. Tell the truth to the world. Ladies and gentlemen, the night is dark just before dawn and the dawn weighs. Debt reduction is a fact. This government has two obligations: one obligation is to quickly get the country out of the crisis and the other obligation is to restore injustices. I'm sure there are injustices. There are injustices to free professionals as well. But everything has to do with development and development without evaluation cannot be done. The Greeks know the truth. That's why they gave the mandate to forces and to politicians clean, away from interests, to politicians not professionals and from the complexion. In view of all this, I would urge you to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u290	Thank you Mr. Kokalis, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks. Mr Dimitrios Dimitriadis, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes or less, if you like, to facilitate the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u291	I'll try.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u292	As many as the previous ones have taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u293	I think you're taking the time. You'll talk when your turn comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u294	That's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u295	But if we go in this way, we will wrong colleagues and I imagine that you do not want it, Mr Constantinople, to be deprived of the floor by colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u296	You too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u297	And to remove the interventions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u298	We haven't started the time yet. Here, Mr. Dimitriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u299	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill brings us to the end of a specific road map. We are completing it with one satisfaction, because we have fought a battle, and we are pleased that we have achieved several things to the benefit of the Greek people. Since the 25th of January, a flagrant date in our modern political history, there is a happiness, there is a sense of recovery, a confidence in the popular classes, but also a trauma to the losers. We had a victory of dignity policies and the end of an old system. The confirmation of this association of forces with the September elections, beyond the hope of the people it brought and continued to bring, brought a definitive shock to the old political system. There is an unbearable trauma to their confidence and, beyond the fairy tale on the left parenthesis, there is a huge strategy deficit for what is missing here. Their account was quite simple. After they managed to get the incomes to two literally, to reduce GDP by 25%, they said "I can't, I'll be able to do what the lenders say." I can, in other words, have great surpluses to pay them off. Their only concern was to secure and perpetuate the interests of oligarchy and their positions. So they managed 2014 to have, yet with all that, a surplus, instead of the agreed 1.5%, just 0.2% and so they went to the elections and lost them. This is all the narrative of the success of previous governance. It's a story of authoritarianism with a lifestyle tomb. Our account is completely different. It is the account of the policies of dignity and emancipation. We with one year of governance, with two elections, with gods and demons toward us and with capital controls we managed and had a surplus plus 0.7%, while the forecast was for minus 0.3%. We kept up-to-date wages and pensions, kept society up, with a view to final emancipation. We have made it clear in Greece, but also in Europe, that we have all the political prerequisites and the political opportunity to take the country forward. And that is what we do and we do. In the account of the success of previous governance, we must bear in mind that we should have for 2015, for the year that passed us, a surplus of 4%, that is another 6-7 billion m. If we think we should also pay debt and loans, and if we add them to this story, we are talking about over 10 to 12 billion commitments per year. From this, together with the automatic cuts and the zero deficit clause, it is clear that the bill for the people's classes would be unbearable literally, which we, with the summer agreement, have definitively prevented for at least three and a half years, achieving a closed agreement, where all loan contracts have been carried over for thirty-five years and surplus agreements are made within our own state budget, with far lower surpluses. Imagine that the biggest risk is the surplus of 3.5% of 2018, for which we have been working since now, being viewed by the IMF as difficult to achieve. Think of what was going to happen in 2015, which we should have 4% surplus. Except we stopped this change in the door, after we crashed. We are not a compromise party, we are not a compromise government, we are a conflict government. We, therefore, conflicted on the basis of the subsequent association of powers - in fact, we made an agreement, a political compromise - we have, we have and we are committed to it, that we have all that political plan, which is in our political DNA and the possibility of making all the necessary and necessary ruptures in the future, when and when the connections allow it. So what do we do? Let us move on to the necessary changes in the public interest in favour of the development of the country. We are not our party, and our leader is Alexis Tsipras, the folk leader of 62%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u300	6,2 did you tell him?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u301	I can't imagine what you'll be able to compare, except for demographic fantasies. We are committed to three objectives, which are recapitalisation, evaluation and debt agreement. You have also been doing the recapitalisation for a long time, but with a substantial deficit, which would require recapitalisations, because for six years you have not touched the hot issue called red loans. We started in November the resolution of a large part of this problem, and today we are ending it, firmly believing and with the certainty that we are entering a new question on our banking system and thus its recapitalisation. I would very much like to speak - and that is what I will do - about the small PPC and the privatization of IPTO. Unfortunately, the former Minister for Energy, Mr Maniotis, is not here to defend the plan that he then brought us for the little PPC and the privatisation of IPTO. We are in the extremely important and responsible political position today through this bill to support - it is true with a dose of pride for this success - that we have succeeded in canceling these two memorandum laws, the first regarding the creation of small PPC and its secondment of up to 30% from PPC's parent company and the second concerning the sale of 66% of IPTO, as a subsidiary company of PPC. The IPTO is aware that it is strategically important, that it manages the electricity transmission networks and, in particular, the high grids. And it is obvious that its strategic importance is as a public servant who owns a natural monopoly. Because it does not allow me time to continue, I will conclude by saying: new public tools are needed for productive reconstruction with a social commitment to organise and operate them. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u302	Soon, please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u303	In energy the dominant bloc tried to crumble and divide public wealth for the benefit of specific private interests. So we have the pride of claiming that both the Memorandum Laws have been abolished, that we put the foundations to keep the door open first for the future of the country and then guarantee the alternative prospect in terms of equality and justice. We have another example of our diversity, of a difference of policies with defined framework conditions and of negative correlations. Ladies and gentlemen, we are closing this negotiation cycle positively, firstly, because by 2018 we have a closed and secure programme, without any additional requirements and, secondly, because the positive assessment brings financial relaxation from economic suffocation, more investment and a climate of confidence. This concludes the basic preconditions for what is the main objective and is valid from now on and in the near future. So what's that? It is the country's productive and administrative reconstruction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u304	Please, please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u305	It is the redistribution of a safe budget over the next three years to carry out a large part of our political programme, that is to say, that causes despair in the old government bloc for the changes that are coming, for the cycle of the old that is finally closed. The public wealth and space will be protected, distributed fairly, and we guarantee this, the great part of the dignity and emancipation of the people's classes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Mr. Demetriadis. Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, Member of the Democratic Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u307	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by coming to the House today, I stopped getting a newspaper and seeing the headlines I was afraid that "AUSY" comes out of many bands. I read today the headline of "AGEAN" which says "close the eye to debt relief, there is no measure". I read another newspaper dealing with settlements, which says good news about the debt comes. I read another newspaper that says "debate of debt".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u308	We bought them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u309	Gentlemen, you didn't hit the complication, you just found it! And that's gonna look like the next time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u310	They were inside the law, they were nowhere else!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u311	Ladies and gentlemen, the Governor of the Bank of Greece - and your last favorite - Yiannis Stournaras said half the truth. He said 86 billion is Yannis Varoufakis's. It is not Yani Varoufakis, ladies and gentlemen, it is the Government of Alexis Tsipras - Panos Kammenos - Yani Varoufakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u312	Samara - Venizelou...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u313	Mr. Tsakalotou and all of you who have supported him for twelve months, and for six months you have been applauding him for standing. If anyone could put a title in this bill, it would be: Selling not only public property, but private property. And I'm explaining. I want to be very clean. This is the first time that there has been a violent transfer of wealth from Greece abroad. And because in recent years there have been in Greece - within Greece - themes and many of these you have said about violent redistribution of wealth within Greece and there have been mistakes, for the first time there has been such violent transfer through the fund and from private property, that is, loans and businesses, to the outside. Today you will have the last chance to privatise - because we bad guys have said that the privatisations will come one in the House - you will vote for the assignment of the regional airports to 'FRAPORT'. But here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you. We feel bad. We have allocated to 'FRAPORT' the regional airports for for forty years and you have allocated them for ninety-nine! Did we blame them? But let's see the fund. When Mr. Koutsoukos spoke yesterday and the incident with Mr. Tsakalotos was telling him he was a liar, talking about selling. And I reckon: Did he hear Mr. Diaras, who spoke about selling public property yesterday? Is he a liar too? She's mourning fakes? Or does he evaluate him - as he evaluated me - with a bad degree, Mr. Maniotis somehow? To another colleague of the New Democracy said to him yesterday: "I don't understand you. Only Mr Voridis understands." You've only come to agree with Mr. Voridis in politics!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u314	He said it upside down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u315	Mr Tsakalotos yesterday listened very well to what I said. Politically, he told a congressman...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u316	Don't burn Maki!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u317	I told Maki. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that what the government is doing today could not do either Miranda Xhafa or Stephen Manos. It's too clean. There would be no government that could do that. And because they tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no PPC and the rest that was on the first list, I would ask - the Minister is not here - that we should be given the approval of the big Tuesday's development plan. It's all inside, ladies and gentlemen. That's all inside. All the wealth of the country! But let's see what happened with the loans? What are you targeting? Why did you aim at Greek entrepreneurship, the Greek small and medium-sized and large businessmen? How do you hit them? First with the Capital Controls. After selling the banks to private individuals. By your own law, as Mr Moscovisi said, you did not allow Greeks to enter the administration of the banks. You gave the Greek banks to private individuals, who took 70% to 2.5 billion. And after you were done with this and in the summer, Mr Stathakis told us that the protection will be on the 180,000 euros by the PASOK Act, which was at 320,000 euros, today, ladies and gentlemen, you vote that all the loans - green and red - can go to the funds, except for loans for first residence up to 140,000 euros, until 31 December 2017. What you said, 'No house in the hands of a banker' is 'all houses in the hands of the corps'. You have targeted the businesses, and this will lead to an abstraction through the business loans of the Greek companies. But remember what else did you do? Who did you hit? The beer, the Greek, the wine. Whatever Greek you are hitting it either by tax or capital control or by malice through business loans. And because Mr. Tsakalotos saw you so eager yesterday, when you applauded him, he brought you another article on special payrolls, 128 million. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, we do not want you to be left-wing, nor are we looking for you government chairs. Government to know for the next ninety years that the special right-wing government has no space on Greece's political map. Everyone's talking about the patriotic duty. We, in the Democratic Alliance, can speak of the patriotic task that we have done since 2009. What is the patriotic duty, ladies and gentlemen? Is it to talk about Colkotronis and bow down to Hitler? Is it a patriotic duty to create expectations without a reflection, to promise everything, to create expectations that are not there, and then a law and a lot of articles to unravel it all? Is Mr. Kammenos' conspiracy on all that happened last year? Ladies and gentlemen, we of the Democratic Partnership have done our patriotic duty since 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u319	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to deal with today's bill with the confessed many provisions and many pages, it needs to have two very important elements in my view. First of all, openness and secondly to have a full picture, full view of the difficult social everyday life. Therefore, in the question that has been constantly reproduced over the last few days, if it brings this draft law on tax changes, I would say that yes, it does and I would not say that it brings only tax changes, it also brings tax burdens. Are these charges, ladies and gentlemen, additional measures? Everyone knows that they are not additional measures under any circumstances. They are just a specialization and part of the summer agreement, which - let the opposition not forget - was passed by both the New Democracy and the PASOK and the Potami. It is just 1% of GDP required for the 3.5% surplus in 2018 and its implementation will obviously be gradual. It will not all apply from now, but many of them will apply in 2018, so that the economy can absorb smoothly the consequences that exist in many of these provisions. You'll tell us that we agreed to VAT from 23% to 24%. We obviously accepted it. In order to understand such a choice, however, it should have before it the whole of the proposals on the table. So when there was the proposal - and this was being baptized as a brave step on the part of the institutions - to make major changes in the tariffs of EAFRD and electricity, so for the average household would grow from 13% to 23%, we were convinced that if we proceeded to such a logic, it would obviously be much larger social groups. When creditors over the past period - and the gentlemen of the Officerate are aware of this - were pressing for further reductions in wages and pensions, additional cuts in the social state, in health and education, large increases in the tax rate, an increase in the minimum rate of taxation, which would all be unnecessarily affected by sensitive social strata, we made a very hard choice on the other hand to make a lot of small increases in indirect taxes, trying somehow to restrain this extreme logic that you too are aware of in large part of the institutions. However, there are no plans, ladies and gentlemen, only to increase. This bill abolishes the excise duty on natural gas used for electricity, reduces the charge for households using natural gas for heating, by about EUR 6 to EUR 7 per monthly average account and abolishes the charge of 3% for the public for the value of the domestic beer sold. Beyond the hard side, that is, there are a few small ones, I would say, alleviations. With this position, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that exactly in this part of the bill, the two sides which have been reflected in the last two years are reflected in the negotiation that has been taking place. There are defeats, but there are wins. In recent years there has been a lot of dialogue on the most infamous automatic fiscal adjustment mechanism, the so-called cutter, as has been the case in the catapult. What's that cutter after all? How exactly will it work? First of all, what needs to be clarified is that it is based on European practices and is compatible with the European acquis. In fact, since March 2012, the Financial Agreement provides for the obligation for Member States to provide for the creation of an automatic budgetary adjustment mechanism in case exclusions from the medium-term objectives are observed. In fact, we do not add more than what is envisaged in all agreements, even for countries outside the memorandum, that if you do not get the targets, you are obliged to financial corrections. How's that mechanism getting activated? It will only be activated if there is any deviation. And the government, in agreement with the institutions, legislates interventions which it considers to be balanced, explicitly excluding all vulnerable categories. The most important thing, in my opinion, is that this mechanism, according to the estimates and the data currently in force, is very likely not to be activated. Because for the first time after six years of crisis there is a programme of mild fiscal adjustment and primary surplus targets that do not require external burdens in order to be implemented. A second point on which I would like to stand is the most famous new Graduating Fund for the Public Property. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to be a little self-critic. A number of times are right, indeed, for the Members of the Officerial Representation, who have supported SYRIZA's public expression in the previous period. There was an obsession with regard to privatisation. But there is one difference between us: other privatisation and another, of course, the sale. One example is the privatization of the New Democracy OPCW. I do not think many Members of the New Democracy are proud of the famous privatization of the OPCW. They know exactly why, at what price it became such a profitable public business. This draft also establishes the new Public Property Certification Fund. What will this fund actually do? He will gather the public's assets under a single roof to manage them as a whole in order to make better use of them. It aims at reducing deficits and increasing revenues from their more efficient management, as well as creating a single and long-term public property strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe we are at the last turn. It is a presumption that the evaluation is closing. This assessment closes with difficult but also with good aspects and with positive and negative points. What I have to point to both the Government and the opposition in general is that there is now political time ahead of us in order to do the most important thing of all. Irrespective of how the fund works, or if there is a cut or what the relationship at European level is, the success of this government - and here we need a useful Civicism - is milder and fairer management of social everyday life. All the ministries the next day, and I would like to address the main ministers to be able to work out compensation, bend over the real problems of the world, and there is the success or failure of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr. Micopulus. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the next speaker, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-two students and students and six educational attendants from the 5th Ioannina Municipal School and the 2nd Municipal School of St.Athanasios Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u321	Mr President, may I ask the Minister something about the amendments he has tabled?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u322	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u323	I am sorry to ask for the floor, but with regard to the two urgent amendments which have been tabled concerning the suspension of wage maturation, Minister, but also another more bizarre amendment calling for a provision providing insurance for the Greek Defence Industry, I note that neither of these two amendments bears the signatures of your fellow ministers. These amendments cannot be introduced without Mr Kammenos and the Minister responsible, Mr Toskas or Mr Kurublis, I do not know how they have shared the responsibilities. However, you have tabled them and put them to the vote. If you are kind, then, please, so that we do not raise legal matters here, make sure they are signed or withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u324	Good, Mr. Treasury. Thank you very much. Mr Constantine Javarras has the floor. His House has long wished him much for his festivities.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u325	And all the MPs together!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u326	Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u327	Mr President, thank you very much for your wishes. Colleagues - and you will allow me to address above all to you, my fellow Members - I believe that if anything worthy of sympathy for what you are doing today, it is precisely the fact that you are the victims of historical panic, of those horrors that are being set up, as the German philosophers said, for people and for societies, which have reached such a point that they have not realised that among the states of history there is an internal reason that they must respect and serve. This, indeed, wants you and your Government today to introduce among other things the arrangements of Articles 191 and 192 by which it is literally handed over whatever mobile and immovable property belongs to the Greek state on the farm, to the care of lenders. It is, in fact, a panic of this behaviour, because you two years ago were those who were outside this Chamber, together with all the wings of the indignant, assisted and the scientific crowns of some professors, whom I do not see here today, whom I would expect today to tell me whether this particular arrangement which, according to the report of the Scientific Council of Parliament, creates an exception to state and parliamentary control, if it is, I repeat, the arrangement expresses these views which, as the Left, you and ambassadors, and which many of you have heard say are insisting on believing in relations between politics and history. Ladies and gentlemen, excuse me. I have no intention of reminding you of lessons from joint experience, science or philosophy. But I have to remind you of something. No one in this country was able to wait long before the government, when it is found that what keeps him with Greece and with her fate is only the desire of her authority. Because today, in fact, with these provisions of Articles 191 and 192 you are setting up an unprecedented international law institution. You are founding and drawing up a contract of personal slavery, with the character of carelessness, where foreigners will be able to do at least 50% of the fruits that will result from the utilization, as you say, of all the property of the public, by their own decisions and direct the actions of this public limited company, to control it and in general, to do whatever goes through their minds, without intervening any internal form of national power that is subject to popular sovereignty, in order to become a law or ministerial decision. That's a downfall, that's the establishment of a slavery balance, so you shouldn't be proud. Of course, I will remind you that these two provisions have not been signed by any of the parties and the leaders of the parties that are now represented in this House. This is the creation of your government. You are referring to - to solve also a fraud a number of governors are cultivating here - in Article 966 on an allegedly non-contribution to this company of off-trading things. But it's obvious that out-of-transaction things can't be brought into such a form. That's an ID. I would like to say to you what it means by the provision of Article 966. These are the things that are the commons, that is, the air we breathe - he, indeed, you do not bring him into your forehead! - public-use things - the Syntagma square you cannot bring in - and everything that belongs to the public only because it is about the public. These are incomprehensible things to say, to justify that you are allegedly protecting the property of the public. You're protecting nothing. As a group, you universally give it to those whom you once said they were the strong ones. So I could say that this format of Articles 191 and 192 is a convention of ratification. There is something else that shows and that the myth of your moral superiority has now collapsed. It is the provision of Article 106. I would ask you, please, to pay attention - and I particularly say to the governors here - to the government's representatives that this provision for the first time creates trading conditions in the elimination of hindrance, that is to say, in this institution which says that anyone on his own, voluntarily, spontaneously fulfils an administrative fine or an administrative penalty and voluntarily serves it, he is entitled to be relieved of a number of other consequences, but concerning the offences for which he is accused. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] In other words, with the provision of the new Article 44(3), which introduces the following bizarre anti-constitutional and wicked regulation. The right is granted to those who pay the fines imposed by the Competition Committee to have a personal elimination from the criminal offence not only of the offences related to Law 3959, but also of those crimes that are actually or truly dragged against those crimes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This is the case, which, please, I want you to take note of yourself, gentlemen. Here, then, it is possible to draw true felonies, which may also be directed against the public, in conjunction with Law 1608/1950 on public abuses. Here, therefore, you, in the regulation you are voting on, are giving the right to those who have paid a fine imposed by the Competition Committee, to get rid of a number of offences which are only genuinely or truly dragged into the offences of Law 3959, namely offences relating to the infringement of the competition rules, and in this way some people will benefit in a way which is truly immoral. I say this because it has already been heard that in these cases a large number of entrepreneurs are involved, which you systematically appear to them as representatives of interacting and corruption. I hope, at least, that you, my majority colleagues, do not get to that fate, because then you will not have any gum literally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u328	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u329	Mr President, may I take the floor for an amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u330	Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u331	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to ask for clarification on Amendment No 437 and, in particular, No 81, the Joint Ministerial Decision by the Members. Tsakalotou and Katrugalou, with which you are abolishing...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u332	Mr Amyras, I am told that this amendment has been accepted in the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u333	Wait a minute, Mr. President. But this amendment, tabled by the two Ministers, actually abolishes a provision that the House voted ten days ago in the insurance bill, giving tax and insurance information to the Greek Defence Systems. I would like to ask the Minister, and I ask him to clarify this, why this content of the provision is changing in ten days. And as you know, if they do not have tax and insurance information, the Greek Defence Systems, like any other business, will neither be able to pay the employees, payments, nor pay them. So my question, Mr Chakatte, is: Firstly, the troika has asked for it and now you are legislating completely contrary to what ten days ago? Secondly, and more importantly, are the Hellenic Defence Systems at risk with closure? Does the workers know? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u334	All right, Mr. Amyras. The Minister will answer whenever he appreciates it. Mrs Diamanto Manolakos, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u335	Thank you. The cursor has no end, both in terms of the content of the anti-popular, reactionary policy of the wild - fire and the fast track process, so that there is no reference period and condemnation of the large number of barbaric measures that are awaiting the people, nor in terms of the government's perception of the opposition parties, and let them pretend and fight the impression that they disagree with you. Together and together, you support the same strategy of capital and its profitability, at the expense of the income and needs of the people's family, which you are destroying, you literally break it. You're going through new, more nipples in their lives. They didn't vote for you for that. And don't invoke your percentage. A lot doesn't swallow. However, it is not swallowed by the fact that you have abolished the ESS to poor pensioners and retroactively ask for the cuts and you are cheering that you are making it easier for them to return in instalments. Shame on you! Twice a shame! Your mockery doesn't end. You will remain in history as "poverts of poverty". Yes, the JRC is tabling an amendment to keep the ESS, and let us reject it. To learn that, since the massacre of the NRAs, three hundred seventy thousand low pensioners are driven below the poverty line by reducing incomes by up to 25%. Inhumanity continues with the farm. After at least tripling the insurance contributions with tax revenues, you continue with VAT increases of 24% for agricultural supplies, increases in HPAI, agricultural parcels, oil and others that increase the cost of production, in addition to stricting the main farmer's profession, asking more than 50% for agricultural activity. You beat the young people who, to survive, are forced to do another job. You do not recognise them as farmers with tax-free EUR 8,600. Some subsidies are being cut. You're poor with them. You are directly expelling small farmers who make the cafeteria, the barber, the grocery store of the village. So, easier the land, production, subsidies for microproducers are concentrated on the big ones. You use multiple tools for extermination of small and medium-sized farmers, combined with one another, so that no one can stay, nor the cafeterian of the village. Everybody in the way. So you are consistently implementing the European Union's anti-grassroots, tough policy. There's been a lot of talk about forest maps. The truth is that the competence of forest services for the training, validation and control of forest maps is constitutionally guaranteed. However, previous arrangements were commissioned to the public limited company "KEMIKI". Therefore, it is constitutionally questionable. To avoid unconstitutional appeals for a lack of protection of state forests and legalisation of violations and other objective problems, you have a regulation that is hypocritical. You're mocking us badly. Because the forestry service is undersettled without the necessary scientific staff - mainly for forestry - without infrastructure and funding. And I would ask you very much to read the minutes of the Committee on the Environment on 18 May, so that you can learn the decline in forestry services and forest research. By regulation, then, you are making the exception rule, that is, when the Forest Service declares that it is not able to implement the forest maps, then only will they be made by study companies and by "KEY S.A.". Therefore, you hypocritically give responsibility to the subsurfaced forests. You are creating an alibi for reviewing the work of forest maps, since you are actually giving them unconditional terms and conditions to private companies. And that's what you call co-operation with the public. They are still declassified and are not included in forest maps that have illegally delimited or have not delimited. At the same time, arbitrary densities appear to be declassified and legitimised and the Minister's improvement shines, but it does not stop the legalisation of arbitrariness. The violations of state forest property which, under the responsibility of the urban governments, have been unlawfully built or created by illegal settlements, are also legalised. Thus, it abolishes any legitimate administrative act to protect the state forest property. It's not about the people. That's why you only have fines. It is simply accelerating the satisfaction of the monopolistic groups for the development of business and profitability in forestry subsystems. As far as the independent regulator and port public authority are concerned, they have the European Union stamp. In view of the privatization of the ports of Piraeus, Thessaloniki and another ten, you can relieve monopolies that will buy them from what they consider weights. This means abolition of collective agreements and worse insurance, pensions, while you are hitting labour relations and trade liberties and increasing the cost of port services for the people, by maximising the profits of the sector's monopolies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The government's demagogic confrontations with New Democracy and PASOK on the responsibilities of the public port authority are callous to hide your agreement to privatisation. You continue where the previous ones stopped. Mr Dritsa said so very clearly. The public authorities of ports shall not include carrying out business or taking commercial decisions. He's just supervising. For the area, however, fertilizers and privatization promises do not say anything. Jerk! Invasion in the Keratsini, then? In addition, tax exemptions and privileges in the 'FRAPORT' are provoking. I can't say any more. It's for the privatisation of airports. State in the state. So your policy is clearly classic. The Association of Greek Industrialists, as well as the opposition parties, especially those claiming power, is welcome, because you do the dirty work well. They hope to avoid her when the bourgeois class invites them to succeed you. In the people's hand is to show its strength, not to legitimise and raise anti-grassroots policies that kill without weapons.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u336	Thank you Mrs Diamanto Manolakos, Parliamentary of the Communist Party of Greece. Mrs Catherine Markou, Member of the European Parliament from Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u337	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the government has done well. Whatever you say, they're hollow. In such a noise of populism and incoherence, in such a decline and disobedience, in such a confusion that has deliberately been caused, in such a ruthless attempt to undermine values of the civil democracy, in the western way of living in elementary truth and dignity, whatever words you say, they seem to be hollow. The unnatural turn of the government threatens to break down the credibility of the entire political system. But it feeds the government's zero-value, the idea that nothing can be done, that politicians are all unreliable, that whatever is said in the public space, it no longer has any value, because it can be unreasonable. So citizens get addicted to nothing, since the government does not defend anything. Since last year's referendum which insults our intelligence and threatens the country with catastrophe, in today's delusion that the content of this agreement causes the country to return a page to development. One day, he's supposedly a left revolutionary radical, the other systemic fan. Come on, let the voter figure out. Very normal, you'll tell me all that. When you start from the incomprehensible girls of the Thessaloniki program and end up in 99 years of concession of public property with the possibility of renewal of the contract by our triceps, one understands that there can be nothing, no belief, no firm, no idea, no ready political proposal. So, is there any point in discussing the substance of this bill? There is, of course, one funny argument that the previous parliament voted for the agreement last summer by a overwhelming majority. Yes, we voted for it, but firstly it was a 100% result of the previous six months, and secondly, no one voted today's content, the concrete measures, the tax raid with the SYRIZA seal. And yet, there are no words to describe hypocrisy, ruthless, cynicism, opportunism, the unnatural political turn, which you rub with a smile on the face of the voters saying, "But you voted for me in September, and I told you so." But my congratulations go above all to the creditors. What if the first program of 2010-2012 was thrown out of the trash by the tax raid on what's going on, you're the violin. There's no shame there either. First write the thousands of pages yourself, let the man with the lightweight backpack put whatever tax he's taxing and then declare that these are the government's and not yours and that you're asking for a guarantee. Meaning? A mortgage cutter, to be assured. Now, please, Mr President-in-Office, this incredible government, and do not rejoice because the measures will pass, because, as you say, the only ones can pass it. And then what will you tell us? And Mr Thompsen writes in detail, saying that the cuts in expenditure cannot be made. Mr. Caranikas? Is it necessary? And what absurdity is this to impose austerity through unbelievable taxes, to collect 1-2 billion more when you have borrowed 250. Mercy! Loan us 251 and prevent the tax raid. Kanes will be up from his grave. The question is that the economy runs a little, that there is little demand, that there be a little more jobs and incomes and not that we cut the electronic cigarette. So, what do we tell him about the smoker? Start the normal cigarette again? It's completely vicious, don't you understand? Too bad, 'cause I have to say it. Reading the new memorandum, there are many serious technical issues to be discussed. From the entire school to the reforms in justice. But this, I imagine, will be lost again in this state of the rain of taxes, in the arrogant expenditure of the middle citizen. What happened, that is, in all the Memorandums. You have undermined them yourself. I want to focus a little on tax raids, natural persons and small and medium-sized ones. Ending securities for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, ladies and gentlemen. SYRIZA - ANEL seems to want a grim capitalism of multinationals, not small and medium-sized, and so on. With the grown-ups, the negotiation has content. We all know what kind. We all know how the regimes are being built. All right, you'll tell me. And all this with a hundred and fifty three MPs? Isn't there even one who disagrees, bro? Not one, not a word, not a word? Here, in the Samaritan government, you were talking about, there was a leak. Anything here? Accept? Good for you! We're not talking about MPs here, but we're talking about regular fans. To send my regards to the braves of Mr. Tsakalotou's. By the way, can I say to you or rather ask openly: is there any other kind of support? The PASOK strains that have joined the SYRIZA and the licks where they find, to enter now, are well known. A word about the hidden paths of the destructive government 2004-2009 to SYRIZA should not finally be said? Even the official New Democracy is now making some self-critic about its past. SYRIZA say nothing about this disastrous period of Mr Karamanlis, who went bankrupt in the country, I haven't heard. Muga. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What's going on here, guys? Do you think that's gonna stay secretly? Nemesis will not be long and the ax of history will be heavier than the SYRIZA ax. The government is pressing on malnutrition on the extermination of citizens from the political system, from the measures, from the crisis, from the situation it does not say to improve, from the fact that it does not know what to believe. It is dominated by a combination of sensations of zeroing and cynicism, which destroys something much more than the economic structure of the country, destroys the vertebra that society turns away from every value and every principle. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, as the great American President Lindon Johnson said: "Now you must decide how you want history to remember you." And you do not have too much time to decide this, ladies and gentlemen, if it is not too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr. Catherine Marcus. Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, Member of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President. There have been fires for three days, with great passion, I would say with incredible fury, sometimes hate. And what I haven't heard in the last few days. The "storms" and these are mild. I have heard that I am a political fraud, a political persecutor, not myself, the parties that support. Because the anthropogeography of this House is well known, I want to make a few reminders, because some people have a selective memory and have forgotten the word self-criticism and the past. For some years now, hundreds of families, literally a hundred, with some expressors - and I mean political staff - have done what they wanted in Greek society. I want to remind you a few recently, not to go back to the old days. Katrugalo apologized for the mud they were throwing him. From Spirtzi and the Pope, they also apologized. The country's Prime Minister apologized when we heard that his house was auctioned, the home that was born. From the President of the Republic, a man who has made a huge course when he took some education classes from the Protogoras, and they received a statement that he wants to take us to the drachma. The word mediator dictatorship was unknown in this House. When the law came to change the mediation scenery, we saw three parties, Potami, PASOK and New Democracy, with incredible insistence not to change it. Let's go to another anthropogeography. Tax evasion, a great scourge. Let's see what credibility today's reasons are for and what people are pouring them up. If you look in detail at the Lagard list - I don't want to go back into names, I've said it 50 times, it's published - half the list is people who are mainly part of the Officer's opposition party. On the Boyarns list, in Panama Papers, if you look carefully, you see who's taxing and probably covering others. All of the former Prime Minister's company or big part of it is on this list.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u340	Thanasis, you told us this. Say something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u341	It's bothering you. The word complication and the word corruption. For many in here are annoying words. For me, no! Listen a little. Sikashek gave hundreds of names of Greek politicians who had been bribed by "SIEMENS". I didn't see any zealous names coming to the surface, and we'd find out. On the other hand, I heard Mrs Dora Bakoyannis, who wants to shut us down two and three times. I would also like, in order not to forget, to recall the recent case of the one who dared to touch it - I am referring to Andreas Martine - was extinguishing him. I don't have an example, but fifty one. When the international Red Cross expelled him, he did not move a leaf into Greek territory. Why did the international Red Cross expelled him? Should you look better at the Red Cross board, see which families were involved? It wasn't just the Psalmaid. You're wrong. Look for the rest of the names. Who were supporting and still supporting Mr. Vegeopoulos? A party isn't looking for Mr. Vgenopoulos. The entire Republic of Cyprus is looking for him. And with judicial terminology, which we know behind them who are hiding, it makes sure that it avoids apologies to Cypriot justice. You want me to remind you who people are behind Vgenopoulos and who were in the great Water Price Papers. Other paper. I've been through it many times. This is the credibility of those who make fires in this Chamber. We're coming to today. Yes, friends and friends, yes, ladies and gentlemen, no one wants to owe an unbearable debt. Can we talk to men? And don't give me up for sexist expression. It's an expression we call it. Who got the debt from 120% to 180%? SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks or Varoufakis? Who got it? Who removed one quarter of the income of Greek citizens? Who really dropped unemployment one and a half million Greek citizens? Can we honestly answer these questions? I'm one of the last people I'm not gonna make self-criticism. Yeah, and infinitely, we're inexperienced, and we've made wrong choices, and Ignorant of danger we had. Never, but we never put our hand in honey! Never! And as many times as you have cared dirtyly to put some people into the candle, Stathakis brought you here the thirty three properties, which charged him twenty-six euros. Cathy! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Do I have a minute? If I haven't stopped, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u342	You do. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u343	I don't want to say any more. I mean, I don't like misery. I have to do it. Forgive me and a little indulgence: Whoever dares and put his hand back in honey will cut him off the neck. Why am I saying that? Because I and I here, within this House, are determined on corruption, complexity, tax evasion, the mid-term dictatorship and the clearance of civilian personnel. Because I believe in all parties there are honourable Members. I mean it, and I mean it. This is a prerequisite for us for the country to move forward. At the moment - and I am ending, Mr President - the British referendum, Erdogan's witches, immigration and the Spanish elections are a terrible time. And we even saw the IMF put water on his wine and Siomple put water on his wine. Tuesday dawns another historic day and you're asking for elections. Ask your businessmen if they want them. Ask them, let's see what they're gonna say. Only one was favoured by the elections, by the limitation of the prosecutors' offences. Nothing else. And I say to you this: the country will enter calm waters and we will really be summoned for a new reality, and there remains to prove whether we are capable of absorbing the largest, most huge liquidity injection that is currently taking place in our country. For those who want, let's sit down and watch the numbers. Forgive me for the tension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u344	Thank you very much Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos. To close the first cycle, Mr Dimitrios Kavalellas, Member of the Union of Centres, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u345	Thank you very much, Mr President. I want to avoid talking with numbers. Let's talk a little bit more human if we can be understood. It's the last attempt, the last attempt to get moved, because from Sunday to the middle class. They're already all broken up. I tell you, I'm an architect, and he has three years to hit my phone. You messed with building, the gentlemen here. They messed with whoever had a pool. He who has the swimming pool goes and does his bathroom in Mykonos, has his boat or goes to Hilton and enjoys his drink. Do you know who suffered the damage? Not the one who had the pool, but the one who went and cleaned the pool, the one who brought the potion, the one who took care of the burner, the one who was picking up the trash around where the ladies left it. With your tricks and nonsense, these evidences from here have been put on, but you have continued them. This is a brake for the economy. These archaic tactics. Now the divorce is coming, gentlemen, and it concerns your voters. Because 15% of polls gave you days ago. I don't know what polls these are. I went to the folk yesterday to get some strawberries and what curses I was listening to wasn't called. It was also market words, which are not allowed in this Chamber to say, but that is the reality. And it's not your fault. You may be deceiving yourself by a deceiving Prime Minister, who had brought us Maduro and called us a terrible guy, and that solutions he has and will make them all money and that there the oil flows in Venezuela. And if you throw some sugar in a square, they'll be killed to get it. It is worse than the then communist regimes, the Stalinist type. Well, the fallen don't fight him, and you've swallowed into the consciousness of the world, so I'll be kind to you. I know I'm messing with your conscience. You're honest people all, you're just trapped and you can't back off. I wonder if you've got so much delusion. Is that a delusion? Are you inconsistent with your ideology? You declare left-wing and communists most of them, so you are perfectly consistent with what is happening. Because the communist what he says? That the enemy of the people's masses is the one who's got a business, and he's got three rest in and he drinks blood, so we're gonna shove it over there. And the other guy who has a house in one corner, how did he do it? You can imagine that somewhere he'll steal the trouble and the toil of the man who doesn't have a home, and definitely, because he's a thief and a thief of the labor and a whistler, and put him on HIS. That HICPIA you would abolish with a law and an article, as you called it the poetry. Well, you're perfectly consistent. New Democracy and PASOK are not consistent because they have brought in the first communist type of tax measures and a few presumptions. Do you have a big car? Sure. They brought it, they applied it. And what he didn't think. Fortunately, however, you have made some important reforms. You called the Delta Group Omicon and baptized the troika's institutions, loan sharks, the Memorandum of Understanding, the lies you deceived. You found investors among the refugees, who are currently in need, because they were thinking, after having taken a vacation, where to invest their money. You did, of course, experiments very well with Varoufakis, who had a very successful negotiation of creative ambiguity, which brought the capital controls and the tombstone to the free professionals. Now the bullies are hitting them in Europe and we're dancing while we can still dance, because I'm tired of dancing, and I'm probably going for the mountains. Really, now that I'm thinking about it, it's okay to go build something over there and pull myself out of this crazy world. You also did something that's too bad. You took Greece out of Schengen practically because they closed the northern borders and not only that, they also came, they entered the Greek territory and shot inside the Greek territory. Whether they did not enter the Greek territory, said the Minister was a zone etc., they were shooting within the Greek territory. Wasn't there a Greek soldier there to return? That much now? [[Noise in the Chamber]] That's right, gentlemen. Listen. So you told them that these poor people will come here, who are the refugees? Six thousand I've learned they've been drowned. I have an inscription right here. We were just saying jokes, but you'd be moved right now. I get her and she shaking my hand. What's he saying? "Three-year unknown girl..." - tombstone is this - "...Burial Date..." - has the number above - "...26.1.2016". That could be the kid from one of you or the grandson. Why did they come here? Because they told them that the Aegean has no borders and you will come out of there and you will go to Europe. Fruits hope. So people went through here, and many were drowned. Can I tell you something else? Why doesn't the Aegean have a border? Ask the mother of the airborne, who has a wet grave there in the Aegean, to tell us whether she has a border of the Aegean, or a sailor or a Greek soldier. The Aegean has a border. I see that my time is running out and I don't want to eat you time, because I want to be consistent like I always am. I'm gonna get to the bottom of it. Articles 191, 192 are a slavery contract. We are, of course, voting against the bill. We're not talking about it. Could a couple of columns there for offshore companies be good and agree, like some others, which are details in front of what comes to us. The cutter's the Profruit's bed. Whoever isn't and doesn't fit, we pull him and we throw him or the other one's legs off. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done in a few seconds. So this cut would actually be a good thing in the sense that it would be otherwise shaped and flexible. Cutting down funding, cutting off the money from the National Defence and letting contractors collect. There's no meaning here and suspicion of development measures, so by closing it, I'll tell you that this CSCE was taken by some poor people. All right, you cut it off for them. Let's not make them pay over. It was your fault. After removal from the fund, he says, there is no mistake. So I thank you, thank you and hope, gentlemen, that you behave logically and not collectively, as you vote on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u346	Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, Mr Spyridon Dannelis, has the floor. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u347	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion is a picture of our image in the rest of the world. The country is unreliable. A special case between the normal European countries. This, of course, did not happen yesterday. Unreliability is not created in a year and a half. But it's clinging to it. Unbelief begins long before, when governments succeeded in expanding the disaster, when they discovered the successes and tossed the memorials, or when they agreed with the partners, but immediately after each agreement they treated them as puppets. They returned to the country and were engaged in a war of trenches, refusing to implement any reform measure that would undermine customerism and the colonies. The criminal negotiation followed with the shirts outside, and that's how they all decided that we are a special case within the Eurozone. And because at this juncture a possible Grexit would cost unforeseen costs and multiply the absolute liquidity that the European landscape can see, as well as the risk of the European Union falling apart, have at least decided at this stage - and we do not know in the following - that Greece will remain in the Eurozone as a country of special status, as a special, special case. A case where it requires continuous surveillance. Why, otherwise, interpret the three new tools that we are establishing today? Tools that come to address the uncertainties created by the timeless unreliability of the Greek side to serve the public debt. And I am referring to the infamous mechanism of the cutter, the replacement of the Emigration Fund by the Greek Company of Participation and Property SA, as well as to the Independent Public Income Authority, tools that reflect the lack of confidence in the country. We must be clear and honest. The famous cut would be unnecessary, if we were to follow the obligations arising out of the Eurozone package, which were adopted because of both the Greek and the European economic crisis in general. In other words, the Stability and Growth Pact, the package of directives and the Six Pack Regulation, the adoption of the Financial Compact, the strengthening of central surveillance of national budgets - two-pack and the Golden Pact, that Member States have an obligation to have balanced or surplus budgets and, in the event of failure to achieve the objectives, to take corrective measures automatically. Nevertheless, in order to make sense, but also to work effectively and effectively, it must act as a prevention mechanism, a mechanism that can intervene in time and correct errors and omissions, without having to reach new wage or pension cuts. You could take advantage in this direction of prevention, i.e. the Financial Council and Parliament's Budget Office, so that we do not get to the cut-off. And for this reason, how will the EUR 2 billion that we predict in this year's budget be invaded by privatisation in the state funds? How close are you to your goal, gentlemen of the government? Don't you know how a non-balanced budget means extra measures? Do you not know that this irreparably affects the country's credibility, beyond the cost to society and the economy? We are already in the fifth month and what is scheduled by militarisations is progressing at a turtle rate or referred to the bells. And to be fairer, it is blocked by the theatrical and crocodile tears of certain ministers, who sign and then make their subordinates prevent, or the disharmony that reaches open confrontation between top ministers and TIAD, or phenomena such as the overthrow of serious and mature investment by lifeless decisions, such as the Afantus in Rhodes. The lack of planning in combination with the need to sell kapulia ideologies at your party audience removes you from your goals, but mainly condemn the country in recession and regression. What is painful and certainly invaluable about the country today is the result of ambiguity and intrinsic contradictions. Because of all this, trust is gone. These impose the cutter, as well as the replacement of the Emigration Fund by the Greek Company for Participation and Property SA. Since the establishment of our party, the River, we have been shouting about the need for the essential independence of the Public Income Authority. That is why, moreover, we voted conscientiously to strengthen this independence last August. However, what you are bringing today has a substantial difference with the original agreement on the planned control of the House, to which you refer, and you therefore give the legalisation of the functioning of this new institution. It is also democratic legitimacy, ladies and gentlemen, and also democratic references, because we will have a reference to the Greek Parliament. The entire range of State powers in the area of tax collection is exclusively allocated to the newly created Independent Public Revenue Authority. The power of State investment is also conferred on it, as it requires its assent to the inclusion of projects in the Public Investment Programme. It has exclusive competence to adopt the regulatory acts, which are the responsibility of the Minister, the Deputy, and the Deputy Minister of Finance. The newly established authority will only be competent to interpret tax and customs legislation by means of regulations and circulars. This means, in practical terms, that the application of tax legislation has been left entirely in its hands. The Minister may have an opinion, as foreseen, but does not commit the AIA, and that creates a problem. It is obvious to change the philosophy of measures from those provided for in the August agreement. It is another thing to support the independence of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue and another appointed commander to operate independently of the elected government of the country. It is also necessary to support the exploitation of the Greek property and to create a superstition whose dowry is not recorded and clearly identified. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the Prime Minister said a few days ago - and we welcomed it - that it is time to move from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Economy and Development. This is a state of maturation, if the Prime Minister of course means it, but it has been bought at a very heavy cost by the Greek people. He also said in his speech for the first time in your one and a half years that we must finally produce wealth. But how will wealth be produced to achieve 3.5% of the primary surplus if entrepreneurship is not supported? Are you in a position to support this, a grand program for the recovery of the economy? It is clear that entrepreneurship is not assisted by the tax raid that we are doing today. In order to come to development, in order to support a sustainable productive model, you must do the reforms that you are avoiding, just as the previous ones have avoided, because they have ruined customer relations with groups of influence, artifacts, with electoral clienteles. The state and state-owned economy have brought us here that brought us. But you're still unable to ignore him today and get over him. Turn to indirect horizontal taxes, which are the consequence of an insufficient perception of things, a late realisation of reality, delays in negotiation, the continuation of illusions of class redistribution policies. These are loaded on the back of the Greek people and, in particular, - unfortunately - those who continue to produce and create. At the same time, you insist on investing in the bankrupt state, expanding the state. You create new state expenditures by creating new positions in the state hierarchy, in your affectionate habit. At the same time, you continue your equally dear habit of forgetting to cost these structures, wages and expenses. And all of this, of course, will support them with new unfavourable taxes that are stifling the real economy, entrepreneurship, the new creative and innovative people in the country, who are increasingly being pushed into immigration. Even Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Dombrovskis, responsible for Eurozone economy issues, said that the choice of increasing taxes instead of reducing spending is your own and wrong choice. No one imposed this on you. You prefer to invest in new structures and new recruitments, instead of reducing state expenditure, i.e. 'cow'. The new account to be added is 1.6 billion in the tax and insurance charges of the previous week of 3.6 billion. And all this because you are obsessed with, like the previous ones, not with real reforms. Ladies and gentlemen, those who support the European prospect of the country - and thankfully we are the majority - must come to an agreement and leave the hypocrisy, the screaming, or the gross lies that are completely falsifying the truth against each other. Society has been booming - for years and now more - by micropolitical and impressive. If we want to protect parliamentarianism and democracy, we must finally speak the language of truth. The numbers are vague and describe the grim future for us and the next generations if we insist on the same pattern. The Greek GDP debt ratio, according to the institutions, will peak to 182.9% of GDP in 2019, before retreating to 104.9% of GDP - take note - in 2060. And this scenario will only apply if Greece manages to gain over 3% over time and more than 2.5% of GDP growth. That's stable until 2060. How will this be achieved in an economy that is permanently tightened, incomes are constantly falling and the political situation is constantly under the fear and threat of ongoing political liquidity? How are we going to support 3% annual primary surpluses with the hostile to the investment model, which you are proposing? How are we going to make unbearable debt repayments? EUR 123 billion must be repaid by 2041 to the IMF, to the ECB, and to the national central banks of the euro area countries that have lended us. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. All the above we have to deal with them in time, with design and honesty, honesty that does not see us. This bad reality is not dealt with by changing the roles of the parties in a thousands of playful, badly tasted parliamentary performance. This timeless recipe deepens poverty and social contradictions and widens the deadlocks. Let us realise that it is a one-way road to create the essential conditions for the production of national wealth. There's no other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Mr Dannelly, Parliamentary spokesman from the river. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-six students and two educational attendants from the 9th Municipal School of Serres. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Tsirkas, first speaker, from the second cycle, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, the situation in Greek society is not easy indeed. However, this does not mean that some of the Qualified Opposition can distort the truth. We're not celebrating. We must, however, say the truth to the Greek people, that after so many years of cruel austerity that plunged Greek society and the economy and resulted in the loss of 25% of our national wealth, the exit from this situation begins. The way to growth and to reduce unemployment is opening. The messages from Europe are optimistic to reach an agreement on the first assessment, which will be explicitly linked to the issue of debt settlement, an agreement that differs from all the previous ones, since debt write-down will not depend on the euro area's respective finance ministers, but on objective, scientifically defined and acceptable indicators to ensure its sustainability. First time within the last six years, it begins to appear light in the tunnel of recession and austerity. Everything shows that confidence in the Greek economy is increasing. This is a reality that everyone accepts within, but also outside, the opposition in Greece. It has now been understood to everyone that Greece is no longer able to raise the obsessions and mistakes of previous governments, mistakes that cost the Greek people dearly. It is indeed regrettable that the parties responsible for the country's economic and moral bankruptcy should not feel any responsibility for the harm they caused at the place and lead him to the memorials, which they themselves considered to have been imposed but have not negotiated, did not react to the irrational demands of lenders. These are today when we're swinging the finger. The Greek people, however, have a crisis, they know and do not trust them. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, you are once again choosing the irresponsible path of populism and it is clear that your party benefits are greater than national needs. What exactly are you accusing us of? Are you accusing us of being brought to justice by those who plucked away the public wealth? The regime of lawlessness and technical procedural oblivion is over, and the cases take the path of justice. Are you blaming us, because two million fellow citizens who lost their jobs in previous years or were they not able to pay their contributions, all without exception now have the right to free access to the National Health System? Are you blaming us because we protected the main pensions, the main residence, and we take injustices for decades? Do you actually blame us, because we are touching your supports on the midterm and complexion, where for the first time in the mid-size landscape one class comes in with the opening of the competition for the legal licensing of the channels? Everyone in Europe recognises that Greece is changing page, you are not. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not flying into clouds or celebrating, we do not want to look forward to the situation. We know that the daily lives of the citizens are difficult, but we cannot overlook the positive steps taken for the country and bring the signature of this government. But let us see what we have achieved today and what the lenders were asking for, but what you promised them in the New Democracy and PASOK. Do you actually blame us for not increasing the VAT on electricity and water and making this difficult choice to increase 1% of the high tax rate? Or are you accusing us of having as red line the non-reduction of wages and pensions? This bill creates the Graduating Fund for the Public Property, which will be Greek and run by Greece. These assets are not for sale alone, but for recovery and the result of the tough negotiation is to be attributed 50% of the amount of the fund's operation to debt and the remaining 50% to growth and investment. The fund, which the opposition accuses us of supposedly selling out the country, is aimed at managing and exploiting public property in the long term. It's not a sale. There is a huge difference between exploitation and privatisation and nothing can be decided without the Minister's approval. The company's supreme body is the Minister of Finance and the majority on the Supervisory Board belongs to the Greek State. The company is Greek, its administration is Greek based in Greece and will be governed by Greek law. Last but not least, populism and deliberate distortion. And HISHA, with this bill, will not increase for most of the property owners. 92% will see a reduction after objective values have been reduced. We managed not to hurt vulnerable social groups and a framework for red loans was established last year that protects weaker borrowers from auctions. The provisions of this draft law protect 93% of borrowers with the guarantee of first residence and are not allowed to be sold to non-banks until 2018. Do you continue, gentlemen of the Officership, faithful to the line of liberalisation of auctions and the sale of red loans? Beyond that, you continue to talk about pension cuts of 40% in recent years, when you have launched unemployment, black and uninsured work, which has increased public debt. You know, however, but you do not tell the Greek people that by closing the review in the second half of 2016, they will fall into the real economy, the market, 11 billion euros, which is enough to start the recovery of the economy and the relief of the market. So tell the Greek people the truth. According to the surpluses that you agreed on in the second memorandum, it would have taken EUR 20 billion more, i.e. reductions in wages and pensions for over-taxation, low and medium-income. This is not, therefore, a plan for new measures beyond what was agreed last summer. The low primary surpluses we have claimed and achieved are targets that are feasible, perfectly realistic and show that the automatic mechanism of budgetary divergences will not have to be activated. Do you blame us for agreeing a primary surplus of 4.5% for 2018 and we dropped it to 1.5% for 2017 and 3.5% for 2018? However, the debt - and I close, Mr President - which you have put into the neck of the Greek people will be lightening it. For the first time, we have had an explicit commitment to the debt settlement, with a view to write-down, to make it sustainable. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece must change its page. Changes page and we'll work hard to return the smile to the lips of the citizens you deceived them, send them to unemployment, fire them. And the complexity, corruption and policy of friends and besties are not included in the chapters of this new book. We'll do everything possible for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u350	Thank you Mr. Vassilis Tsirkas, SYRIZA Member. We shall proceed with Mr Mavroudi Voridis, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u351	Ladies and gentlemen, you could ask yourself, listening to a number of speeches. If there is real contact, if there is contact with the legislative text, if there is contact with what the government is proposing and you are invited to vote in favour of them. Did you just invoke us for red loans? Did I hear all right? Don't you now give the red loans and tell us something about it? I mean, that starts and goes beyond us. It outweighs us at a level of human simple communication. I have no objections to any directional objections or anything like that, but to say about the red loans that you are not giving them? Do you have a complete lack of understanding of what you're doing? As far as the HIAD is concerned, I heard Mr Stathakis yesterday. He said it's a great fund we're doing. Why is it great? Because you, he says, had done the S.H.I.E.L.D. and the S.E.D. was a fund that 100% went to debt. Well done! What are you doing? A fund in which apart from the GOI, which 100% goes to the debt, you also put all the real estate of the public, all the public participations in the list of companies. And say what's going on with the SAD? Urban transport, fixed track transport, railways, OAS, ELTA. And take care of this in the attachment now. But as you are well-known, you are sloppy and negligent, you have brought us the secret list into an amendment that you tabled to the committee and then corrected it twice. This list includes, in the near future, the EEAS, the EEAS, i.e. the waters, ELVO, the ATTIF, the building infrastructure and - because I heard someone say "we prevented the privatisation of small PPC" - all of PPC. After you put all the properties, all the participations, the HSF and the HSF, Mr. Stathakis tells us, "But what have you done, only the HSF?" Is that what you meant we didn't put on everything else? So Constantinople is right. Open a bridge of understanding. Because I'm a devoted liberal, who I'm a devoted devout man, I couldn't imagine. Well done! You've exceeded the dreams of every liberal intellectual. In an act all the wealth of the public is dived, with this beautiful law. We couldn't think of that anymore. We couldn't think about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u352	So you're gonna vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u353	No, because he's beyond us. We've been outdated. You couldn't think of that. Besides, if you like, from the jokes, here's the serious thing. And what's the serious thing? You know, TIAD had Greek administration. Mr. Comrade, Greek Treasury in Greece, you say, with Greek administration. Didn't you read again? Did you not see that the management of this fund is required to place the Supervisory Board? Did you see who places the Supervisory Board? Both sides agreed, and the Greek, on the one hand, and the Commission and the EMS, on the other. You've put foreign co-managers in all public wealth, all of it, all of the properties, all of the holdings, all the CIUs, all the bank shares, for a hundred years co-management. I'm sorry, they asked George Papandreou with 17% deficit and the back against the wall. He didn't give it to them. They asked Papademos - this is the "Soyble Fund" - to make the largest debt relief that has been done with PSA in the world. He didn't give it to them. They asked Samara for it when he was fighting 7% adjustment. He didn't give it to them. But for the 5.6 billion 'Chaves of the Mediterranean', the 'counselor of Maduro', the 'visualist of Che Guevara', the 'historic heir of Mars Velohiotis', the Prime Minister of Left, Alexis Tsipras, gave it for 5.6 billion! He did it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u354	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u355	It's not my fault. I'm invoking it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u356	Don't falsify the story. Enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u357	Do I do that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u358	It's your class fuse.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u359	Forgive me, Madam Secretary, but Mars Velouchotis, Mr. Paulakis and Mr. Spirtzis have him in their office. If someone's begging, it's not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u360	And the others. And Christ.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u361	I'm just imprinting the fact. Now the issues of authenticity will be solved between you two. It's not much of a concern to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u362	The other photo, the other story, Machi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u363	So in all of this one must not remove from this amazing picture this man who was coming here saying: 'Greece is not for sale'. Do you remember the T-shirt "Greece is not for sale"? At four, Panos Kammenos. Also, he is one of these fighters, the ones who refused all this. [[Applause]] But are you saying, ladies and gentlemen, I heard them from a colleague yesterday in the debates between you, 'they speak', that is, 'that forty years we have done what they have done, which have led the country here?' Yeah, to get in touch, because we're suffering again from historical discontinuity. The country did not receive it with 17% deficit. You've received it with a surplus. The country did not receive it without funding. You received it with funding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u364	A Eurogroup of '14 how did it end? A fifth evaluation that never ended? Tell us how you left?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u365	Now, Mr. Femmelle, right now. And thank you for the reminder, it was an argument that I almost forgot. Have you seen the mistakes I make? Take note, then, that you did not receive it with a recession. As far as the responsibilities of the political system are concerned, they have certainly been blamed. Has the responsibilities of the political system not been blamed? PASOK from a mighty party is at 4%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u366	6.3%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u367	I'm sorry, 6%, 7% and you're going better. The tripartite parliament is eight-party. Were the responsibilities not charged? A great political dynasty of Papandreou has disappeared. One minister was brought to a special court and, above all, you are in the government. Responsibilities have been blamed. [[Noise in the Chamber]] For this adjustment, for you - apologies, ladies and gentlemen - to receive the country with budgetary surpluses - that is why this has been done! - to pick up the country in development and not to tell us about forty years. It's not forty years you've been running now, it's a year and a half. From this point we start, not from forty. But I'm coming to the last one. Look, there's a question coming up and I was thinking about it, Mr. Famele. Why, when I was Minister, were they really not shutting us up? No way! Why? [[Noise in the Chamber]] I thank everyone for their contribution to my speech. Because in fact, obviously, they had agreed on something. Apparently, with someone they had contacted. Evidently, as it was proved in fact, the things that were denied to them by all the previous ones had found out who would give them! And this is the current Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras! But he does not give it to them alone, he gives them with your consent and makes you all co-responsible for the greatest sale, the worst act of treason ever made by a recommendation from the new Greek state.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u368	Minister Stathakis has asked for the floor for a minute. Then Mr. Paulakis follows. Minister, you only have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u369	Mr Voridis, I would fully accept your reasoning, if I had said that the difference between HIDE and the new fund is that in one case 50% goes to the debt, the new fund, and in the case of HIDE 100%. However, I have also set a second criterion, which you have disguised. That the destination of the GOD is exclusively privatisation and the...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u370	Is it still there?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u371	It's still there. ...the new fund does not have exclusive competence to privatise. He has the building of new values. So your argument, which was founded on the idea that we have a little piece here, the TIADED, which has ten items and is now transferred to a new subject, which has two hundred, if it was the same purpose, would make sense to your argument, that to privatize is more. It's not more things because the character is different. This is the second criterion, which means that on the basis of the second criterion your reasoning is falling apart. As far as the fund is concerned, I do not want to steal Mr. Tsakalotou's glory. If it's the Schuble's fund, the GOIDE seems to be closer to his idea, or if it's a fund that has other features, so I don't answer that, i.e. whether it's a sale or not. However, allow me this: If you call for a review of the structure of the WIDD, use both criteria rather than one. On both criteria, what we are doing today is something very positive for the Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Paulakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u373	Mr President, I ask why I should like to say a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u374	No, Mr. Voridis, we're not going that way. They said something and responded politically. Nothing's come up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u375	Mr President, please listen to me. Can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u376	No, Mr. Voridis. I have given the floor to Mr Polakis. We'll hear Mr. Polakis first, because then you might have something to say about Mr. Polakis. Be focused on what you say. I'll give you after the speech. Let Mr. Paulakis speak first. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u377	Mr. Voridis, you're a good trade unionist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u378	A trade unionist?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u379	Yeah, trade unionist. You've been through the universities. We were at the same time. You've been a little older, but we've had a very intense time. I have in my office the photograph of Mars Velouchiotis. But you have been photographed with the photograph of George Papadopoulos, saying, "Screw whatever and whoever stops us." This is to know what cultural burden each one carries in his heart and mind to say what he says. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] First, this, to be clear. Because we're making things blackmailed and with the knife in the neck and we're going to change them. Because we're going to balance it up and change it. You're in your DNA to give it all up. Secondly, as you have seen, in the health field at this time, there's a lot going on in the forum. I'm saying that for the neoliberal you said before. You may not be involved in CEDEFOP personally, but these days some things are coming out for "DENMARK". You have legislated, if I am not deceived, for the passage of "ITAN" - the one who now entered prison bracelets, Mr Martine - on one night at Piraeus Bank. Haven't you done that? Now everything needs to be investigated to see how we got here. Your speech, although a beautiful trade union, shows the strategic deadlock in which you have stumbled. Because you've been betting on the left-hand side for a year and a half. However, right-hand parentheses of the new leadership you have will not have a left-hand parentheses of Tsipras and SYRIZA and the government with the ANELs. Understand it well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u380	Thank you. Mr Vorides, you now have the floor for a minute like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Statakis, let's settle a matter. From the fund, 50% of the new fund is going to go to debt and 50% to growth. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I'll set the subject a little, if you're kind. Don't you determine it to me, I say now. Well, 50% goes to debt and 50% to growth. 50% on whose debt? What's gonna go to debt 50%? Ladies and gentlemen, what is public income from his property for a hundred years!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u382	For a hundred years he's going to the debt?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u383	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u384	No, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u385	For a hundred years. That's the company's duration.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u386	You're lying! That's in the loan contract you voted on and that... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u387	Mr. Polakis, that's not how it works. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u388	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u389	You don't sound, Mr. Polakis. Mr Polakis, that is not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u390	I heard him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u391	He heard me all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u392	No, please, that's not the case. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u393	He said that this wouldn't happen. Like he said he'll get it back. With good, when we see this and when we do not get what you are currently legislating, then we will talk about it - but then. For now, legislate this. That's what you legislate. This is what you invite my colleagues in this House to vote on: over the hundred years for the entire fund, for the entire public property, to go 50% of all incomes there and 50% of the potential - I potentially stress - to be set aside to give value to those assets that may be sold back to the debt. That's what you legislate. Secondly, because you're talking about privatization. I don't want to waste time reading the article. Read, ladies and gentlemen, the article setting out how to use and find me where there is a decision of the Minister of Finance. Nowhere! They take it out of a thought through the strategic plan. Nowhere! Third...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u394	Mr. Voridis, this is second place. It's not even an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u395	Two ministers addressed me by interpreting my words and one, in fact, by making specific references to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u396	Yeah, but what you're doing now is a second speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u397	Yeah, but you can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u398	Please, in thirty seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u399	No, Mr President, I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u400	No, you can't talk twice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u401	So if five ministers take the floor, will I have thirty seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u402	They will be given the floor by the Ministers and they will also say their views, but the second time it is not. Please, you have thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u403	They think they're gonna tell her, but what if they say about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u404	No, please can't be completed in thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u405	Thirdly, I am pleased to hear the clarification of the CEDEFOP as far as Mr Polakis is concerned. But again, I find you a little confused about the issue of 'DON'. I legislated on a special issue, which was linked to the auction in order to keep the 'USDAN' open, because otherwise he was in danger of being auctioned and closed. What does that have to do with Martine and his felonies?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u406	Really?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u407	For this arrangement - don't tell me anything else - or do you have anything to add to me? I'd like to beg you. Listen, listen...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u408	The pass to Piraeus Bank.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u409	As you know - Mr Polakis, listen - I am terribly tolerant of political criticism. Find me, tell me, Papadopoulos, axes, stories, say whatever you want. That's none of my business. I'm politically opposed. Don't talk to me about issues of integrity and honesty.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u410	All right, Mr. Voridis, good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u411	Mr President, for fifteen seconds!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u412	Now, we're finishing with the agony Velouchioti.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u413	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u414	Mr President, not for 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u415	Finish, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u416	We have the agony of Velouchoti.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u417	For 15 seconds I shall speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u418	Wait, let Mr. Voridis finish. It can't be done in the middle of now. Finish, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u419	I'm done. So what I said, Mr Polakis, is a real fact which happened yesterday. The picture was in your office yesterday. You tell me what I did when I was twenty years old. I'm very pleased that this is all you have to say about me, to discuss what I did 30 years ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u420	Good, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u421	But I imagine that you, too, do not consider it fertile for a debate to begin to discuss what you two did thirty years ago and what I did thirty years ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u422	Good, Mr. Voridis, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u423	It is more crucial for the Greek people that Mr Paulakis tell us what he is voting for today for the sale of the property of the Greek people. That's what's important.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u424	Yes, sir. Good. Mr. Paulakis has the floor for fifteen seconds, as he has told us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u425	In order to put things in place with regard to CEDEFOP, you have had the political responsibility for the supervision of the Agency for half a year. You obviously did not have it as long as Mr. Georgiadis or his predecessors since 2004 and have been - where he is currently being investigated by the prosecutors - but - be careful with me - as we said in the Army, the captain is responsible for everything, the captain of the lotus is to blame for everything, whether something happens or something happens below. And in 2014 with a report by the General Accounting Office of the State, which is duly referred to, it seems - half the time that you were Minister - that CICP paid EUR 5,868,309.17 communication expenses to a number of three media and site that your mother doesn't even know about and which, if you didn't get it, took place under your nose.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u426	What did I do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u427	If you didn't get it, it got under your nose. So you didn't check, as you owed, a mechanism that underneath did what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u428	Mr. Pollack, we're out of this whole thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u429	I repeat, EUR 5,868,309,17. Just one year. And the next ones are coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u430	We're out of here! But that doesn't help. Mr. Voridis, you'll probably have the floor for thirty seconds, I hope. Mrs Papayannakis is waiting all this time to speak patiently. It can't be done. Please, for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u431	Well, let's clarify a few things. The CEDEFOP shall operate in accordance with the rules laid down in the legislation. If you find that there is a breach of the legislation, if you see it - at the moment, have you seen it? -...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u432	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u433	If you have, come tell us he did this, the a, the b, the b, the b, the b. You haven't seen it. If, then, you see that, then you also have the responsibility to blame on the institutions that have been violating legislation. Advertising reports on public health obviously make it clear that they are done, because, as you know best from me, public health issues are to a very large extent public communication and public information issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u434	We've got it for free.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u435	The 'jamba' is a debate you call it, and that is not the case. Because for free, you know it's out of the world's contact hours. People don't watch TV on two nights where the free is. Therefore, it opens up a debate - and I say again - which is responsible for the CEDEFOP responsible, overseeing generally has, as the Minister obviously does, for everything, but that is general supervision. If you have anything more specific to tell us, come tell us...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u436	Good, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u437	But stop the general and abstract leaks...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u438	You got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u439	...which constitute a general...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u440	Good. The debate is ending at this point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u441	Don't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u442	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u443	It doesn't suit anyone, it's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u444	Good, Mr. Voridis. We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u445	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u446	We're done, Mr. Polakis. Before I give the floor to Mrs Papagasa, Minister Fotou wants to announce a legislative improvement before being tabled and copied, and then Mr. Skourletis. Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u447	Thank you, Mr President. I want a second for the amendment, with a general number of 489 and a special number 83, namely the one concerning the social income of solidarity, which I analysed yesterday. In the first subparagraph of paragraph 1, the words ‘in July 2016’ shall be inserted, the words ‘30 small and medium-sized municipalities’ shall be deleted and the words ‘maximum number’ shall be deleted. In other words, it is clear that it will be in thirty exactly and it is not up to thirty. This is the one. And the second is spectacular. In the sixth subparagraph, the words ‘the amount guaranteed’ shall read ‘the amount’, ‘the amount’ shall be replaced by ‘the amount’. It's spectacular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u448	Thank you. I would ask that it be distributed. The Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Skourletis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u449	Thank you, Mr President. These are legislative improvements, relating to the articles of the bill, related to IPTO, NOME and the temporary mechanism and corresponding improvements to the report. I won't read them because it's enough. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] I should like to take this opportunity to refer to the amendment with a general number of 449 and a special number 93. With this amendment, which we have tabled by myself and by the Deputy Minister Mr. Tsironis, we are abolishing all chapter II of Law 4269/2014, which defined the categories of land use for town planning projects. A new Presidential Decree will be adopted in its place, and until then the a.m. 166/1987 will apply. This is an amendment, which redesigns in a direction of rationalising land use on the basis of the urban acquis, and essentially comes to respond to the chaos created by the previous law of 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u450	Thank you. Mrs. Papariga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u451	We, gentlemen of the government, will not treat you in terms of morality, morality and morality. We always treat you as you know politically. On this occasion, however, because you are using very much the flag of morality, individual morality, Prime Minister, Ministers, etc., I will remind you of the following: character, classicity - to say so to get to know - the government policy, any government policy, does not depend, it is not solely determined by the morality of the Prime Minister, the Ministers, the MPs, etc. I'm sorry, I mean, he has other criteria. Not that it doesn't matter. They play a role in individual criticism and biography. I would remind you of this: there are conservative politicians in the nearby and far-reaching past who have literally painted their hands with blood, folk, communist, and yet died in the fish. Whether they came out poorer than they did in politics or died in the search, literally. What are we gonna say? Are we going to say these were left-wing politicians? Let me tell you something else. You have appeared, for example, with what we call the "left profile", which stimulates your MPs, your members, friends and fans, with tons of high ground, until you become a government, against Mrs Merkel. Now, you're not sorry to talk, say whatever it is, Shoeble, Lagard, Tomsen, etc. This is shown as a left profile, left DNA, left politics. Let me remind you: in the past, we have had well-known conservative politicians - I will not say names - who have come up against, for example, the palace with Frederick. The palace was a center of power, it wasn't a symbol. They made choices that were contrary to Washington, either with the State Department, or with the CIA. Were they anti-Americans? Anti-imperialists? Leave the battle in the spots now. Look, we can't get stuck on the wall, because we didn't sign the third memorandum in August 2015 in the name of saving Greece, because for us - we say 100 thousand times, we don't hide - there's no single national interest, there's no single Greek interest. The only single thing is Greece, its history, the people, the language and a number of other things, our borders, which must be inviolable and vigilant, but within Greece there is the class interest, there are conflicting class interests. We do not say that we will generally save Greece. There is the interest in the bourgeoisie, the interest of capital - you say as you like - and there is the interest of the working class and a significant part of the intermediate strata - not everyone - which, despite their differences with the working class, is very close to it. It is in this interest that we are talking about this and that is the criterion we are talking about. Unfortunately, I have been provoked all these days in committee and in particular, just now, with Mr Vorides' speech. There's a lot of talk about Venezuela. First of all, everyone brings the example of Venezuela. I do not know what he is talking about, but at any rate I would like to say this: with the example of Venezuela, if it is a party in this Chamber, which is fully confirmed - and I would refer you to what we said and write about Venezuela - it is the Communist Party of Greece, from the perspective of course, not the Venezuelian, in general, but in the interest of the people of Venezuela. What proved, Mr. SYRIZA, to Venezuela, whatever good intentions Chaves or his staff had? That is why I say to you that it is neither a matter of personal choice nor a matter of personal morality. It turned out to be one thing, that those extensive programmes to combat poverty and to do in the conditions of capitalism do not take you away. And the land to give the peasants to cultivate it doesn't take you far into today's conditions. And to change the agreements with the oil companies and make them 70-30 instead of 30-70, it doesn't take you away, because in the conditions of capitalism and the most philosophical programmes against extreme poverty have an end date. Do you want us to use Venezuelan example? The New Democracy, of course, is using it for its own class purposes and we too are completely opposed to class. Mr. Chakalotos isn't here. It's okay. Mr. Stathakis is here. Honestly, every time I listen to you, in particular Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Stathakis and the government's financial staff in general - I do not say about the other ministers, they say so, I do not discriminate against the ministers - I think of this: what they say is what they believe as scientists? Look at you, Mr. Stathakis and Mr. Tsakalotos, I don't see you either illiterate or ignorant, or that you know medium-sized things. You know very well. I don't do it for demonstration purposes, but to prove I know what I'm saying. I've read your book too. I don't know how much you've written. One thing I've read about the Marshall Plan. I've read a book by Mr. Tsakalotou. Yours I read it four to five years ago and Mr Tsakalotou accidentally three to four months ago. He wrote it with a colleague who doesn't even remember his name and refers to the crisis. Excuse me. I don't curse you with what I'm about to say. Your books, although I disagree in many, in most, have very useful elements and labels that you can study. Your books are nothing but foolish. However, when you talk here - and I am sorry to say so, Mr Chakalotos in particular - you are talking nonsense. And you know what bothers me? If you're fools, I wouldn't mind. That's what you're saying. It bothers me, because this nonsense is said for the people. It's the package you're promoting. I shall judge what Mr Tsakalotos said to the committee, which I watched on the television of this House. It is this famous "joker", which is reproduced by SYRIZA executives in the various panels and here in the House. Who reduced GDP by 55%? Samaras, Venizelos, George Papandreou. Karamanlis and Simitis don't say. Who increased unemployment to half a million? They're the ones. They put in Papademos, Stournara, etc. Who led eight hundred thousands of workers to half-pay, etc.Huh? They're the ones. Of course, you will tell me: 'These faces are not guilty?' Of course, it is. In what sense, however, is it guilty? They are guilty of these and their parties, because they support the capitalist development path, which gives rise to its crisis inevitably - they are in his DNA and you know it - regardless of whose prime minister the bomb will shut up. If you stay in government for a long time, yet - we do not make predictions and there may be recovery - the crisis will break into your hands too. These are the forecasts for where the European economy, the global economy, and so on. So leave that nonsense. Responsibility, of course, lies with the previous parties. Alas! In what sense, though? So, what are you doing? You acquitted the system and say that the crisis comes from mismanagement, lameness, strife, thieves, liars, etc., which, of course, exist. These are not nonexistent, but they do not cause this crisis. And you're just going to tell the world: "Look, we have the opportunity to get rid of the capitalist development path from the crisis and the best friends." Look, there's no government on the territory of capitalism that doesn't have any friends. And we don't say that in the sense that you have friends to get rich personally. No, that's not what we're saying. But since your policy is in favour of monopolies, business groups and capital, you will have that part of the capital that, in its opinion, your policy is correct. And it is done: Some of the best friends of the previous governments have become friends to you too. And you'll have anti-bindings, just like the previous government had. There are also disagreements and antagonisms between the parts of the capital. And that's natural. At least when I get the press body, I read the main article of each newspaper and the salmon pages first. Because in the newspapers there are articles and pro-Syria and coal - let me say it - anti-Syria and pro-democratic and against the New Democracy and the PASOK. Newspapers have pluralism, let's say it. What was done in both New Democracy and PASOK is now happening. In other words, when the best friends - and I say again - think that I do not put it morally - see that a government, whether it is co-operation or a one-party, cannot pass its anti-popular and anti-popular policy in an easy way to the people when they see that part of the voters are leaving, going and sticking to another party. You can't find the best friends. The best friends stick to you. So let go of the buddies. Of course, where else can you confront each other? That's where you're gonna do it. There's a lot of corruption issues. Unfortunately, there is no and there cannot be, without labour power, without the people becoming master at their place, the opportunity for the people to take out the scandals. Scandals come out of the competitors. They're making it up between them. Some are sent to prison and some of them are acquitted. We're not questioning it. All those who are accused of scandals are very likely to have done it. That is why we do not support anyone. That's why we're saying we should go to court. But leave this conversation now. I'm ending up saying this. New measures are coming. The JRC Members have said so. I don't want to repeat it. Every evaluation we're going through will bring measures. Because the evaluators want you to go up all the grades or say it instead, they want you to go to a full categorisation. And that's what they ask of all the parties, whatever government there is. You may not need the cutter when you take the measures without a cutter. You won't have to. It'll be unnecessary. Is that the point? The next law, which is the most classic, dirty of the people, is the development you'll bring. And let teen dreams, if they're teen dreams - you don't justify why you're adults - that growth will bring profits and become redistribution. The people must not believe in any of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u452	Thank you, Mrs. Papariga. Mr. Michelis, SYRIZA Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u453	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a careful observer easily finds that during the debate on the draft laws the opposition, in particular the major one, generally follows the same practice. First he raises procedural issues. Following tension and polarization, in which personal descriptions are not avoided, which usually result in reports and complaints to the individual. In other words, reference to the country's progress in government governance and that this is linked to the country's problem, the proposal to resolve it, is usually avoided. Why is that? From weakness or from choice? I believe that this is an option for the purpose of concealing and deferring the general data of the current situation. And because 'truth' means 'no', I would remind you: GDP reduction, national wealth, i.e. 25%. Increasing unemployment to 26%. Full collapse of agricultural, crafts and industrial production. And let us not forget what our country had a few decades ago and how they managed the covetous money, which has entered the country from the EEC, the European Union, the local economic elite and the political expressions. Of course, the loan launch, therefore, also the debt. It is therefore an option to forget the political leaders of the whole process until the country's current economic collapse. What does the sovereign view of the major opposition respond to this today? With two pale arguments: cases. First case. If we continued the country's governance in January 2015, we would have a recovery. Second case. If there are elections and we win them, we'll save the country. With this data one can easily say that there is an obsession, a deprivation syndrome. Who claim these? Responsibility for the country's progress over the last few decades. Those who, in the summer of 2015, supported this agreement, which set the very clear framework for further implementing laws. An agreement, costing the country 5.4 billion in the next three years compared with about 60, which the previous ones cost in the five years 2010-2015. Those who, while voting for the summer agreement, did not oppose anything in the implementing laws that followed. Last, of course, they're talking about another mixture. In other words, they simply choose which social class will lift the main burden. They say, then, less weight to the people, cuts in public spending, which simply means redundancies and a complete collapse of the social state. As for the rationalisation of the public and wider public sector and the fight against waste, I suppose many people will agree on that. But who's talking about it? Let me give you an example. Today the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has seventeen police officers seconded. The New Democracy Parliamentary Group has three hundred and twenty-five. We also need to know the details of the remaining groups of Parliament that move us here. Ladies and gentlemen, with the adoption of this draft law, the heavy burden of the implementation of the summer agreement is actually being completed. At the same time, it seems that the policy of lenders towards the country is also being clarified, a political result of a dynamic balance, which has moved towards relatively more friendly positions for our country and not by accident. Is this the opposition, or is it the only thing that cares about it, is the deterioration of the government and anything else? By voting on this draft law on 24 May, tomorrow, it is closer to a beneficial agreement on the country's debt - beneficial to today's data and current conditions. Is that what the opposition is interested in? In any case, I believe that they are of interest to the great majority of the Greek people in the sense that their hope is renewed for the improvement of the country and the socially weak. And because I am one of those who agree that capitalism is the main responsibility, until capitalism is overthrown, we have to fight to improve the weak social groups, or heaven awaits us, who we believe in. That is why I am voting in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u454	Thank you very much. Mr. Germenis, Member of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u455	SYRIZA's first-time left-wing government with the right-wing hen, the ANELs, commits with this bill another national treason, a national humiliation. In order to make strangers excellent and to remain in power for a while, you offer land and water, but in this way mark the countdown for your fall. The dangerous and disastrous policy that you are following leads with mathematical accuracy to the destruction of national sovereignty and the conversion of our country into a protectorate of lenders and international loan sharks. Your government, with this bill - abortion continues faithfully to the monumental policy of your predecessors. You hand over the keys of the country to creditors, you seal the total loss of national sovereignty and our national dignity, making the Greek state suffer, in essence, from a protectorate, the interests of the famous institutions, institutions that now receive promotion and from lenders become our governors. The form introduced by the Government to the vote is clear that it cannot be described as a draft law under discussion. It is assumed that it underestimates everyone’s intelligence and anyone who claims to have sat and read seven and a half thousand pages or is crazy or is a liar or both together. This procedure, followed by the government and by the Bureau, in addition to being illegal, against the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and unconstitutional, literally humiliates any parliamentary practice, lacks any logic and seriousness and reveals the panic found by the government, as it tries to satisfy creditors at all costs. This multi-project deprives the Greek state of the essence but also those features, which identify a sovereign state. The Greek state is no longer an independent, self-evident state, which is an essential condition of national independence. Two are the conditions for the existence of a sovereign state: the possibility of managing its national wealth, of controlling the strategic state structures and of being able to ensure a decent standard of living for its citizens. In all of this, you have failed. The Multi-Project to be voted provides for the creation of a public property management body, which will be fully controlled by our lenders. At the same time, it brings about an authorised overtaxation of Greek citizens, which puts a definitive tombstone on any possible future development and leads millions of Greek citizens to impoverishment. One could stand up to many elements of this bill and highlight its nationally harmful and dangerous character. The most characteristic of all is the IM capital in Articles 184 and next, which refers to the famous supreme privatization, the so-called Greek Company of Participation and Property SA. The supervision of this company, to which all the management and recovery powers are transferred, i.e. the sale of public property, assumes a five-member supervisory board, three members of which will be selected by the Greek State in agreement with the European institutions and the other two directly from the European institutions. Although it is only from the previous composition of its members that the Greek State loses control over this body, paragraph 6 of the same Article also states that decisions of the Supervisory Board will be taken by a majority of at least four of the five members. In this way, by abolishing the principle of simple majority voting, it is not possible for the Greek State to claim control of its assets in the future, since, in fact, foreigners will be consulted in order to take any decision of that body. This ensures the definitive mortgage, the concession and the sale of public property to representatives of our lenders. The full submission of the Government to creditors' requirements is also demonstrated by the introduction of the shameful "Automatic Financial Adjustment Mechanism of the General Government", the so-called cutter, which in fact extends the political, economic and bleeding of Greek citizens by over-taxing over many years and is a cut in not spending and expenses, but a cut in all hope and any prospect of recovery and development of the Greek economy in the future. What the Government is seeking in its resolution of the draft - 'extension' - is very close to the definition of the crime of the last treason, which, in Article 134 of the Criminal Code, states that it is carried out by anyone who is willingly attempting to disrupt the smooth functioning of the society, to deprive or block the House, the Government or the Prime Minister from the exercise of the power conferred on them by the Constitution or to force them to carry out or omit acts resulting from that power. The draft law before us is doing just that. It comes from the Greek government, not only in the present, but also in the future, of the ability to exercise power conferred on it by the Constitution. Specifically, it deprives the Greek people of the power to control and manage the national wealth. What else can that be if there is no offense of the last treason? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like one more minute, Mr President. Many of these are the cases of government, which have been under the circumstances, dangerous, incompetent and nationally detrimental over the last forty years of postpopulation. After all, this is the main reason why our country has reached this deplorable position and the responsibilities of the governments of New Democracy and PASOK are absolute and given, but the present government has the special character of combining both its incapacity and its incompetence with its outdated and failed Marxist ideas. International loan sharks and lenders have found in the SYRIZA Government - ANEL the most appropriate to safeguard our national wealth and to endure our future. And the testimony of this "exhaust" plan proves that Lenin's particular saying regarding "usable idiots", perfectly suits today's rulers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u456	Thank you. Mr Panagiotis Skourikos, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u457	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, with this multi-legislative plan, a number of our obligations to assess, at last, the country's debt settlement are being arranged. The proposed measures, although difficult measures, nevertheless satisfy the need for a fair and socially sensitive burden-sharing. I wish we'd received a better situation. We know that we receive chaos economic and social, the chaos that has been diligently created by the infamous policy of the last decades, a chaos that they want to revive and continue with the parties responsible for it. After preparing many versions of the 'left parenthesis' - spring '15, September '15, spring '16 and goes on to say - now in vertigo, literally, they are unable to propose anything against the positions of the government and against the policy it produces. Awkwards are self-determined by the government's expectation of failure, not to act politically and with absolute indifference to the interests of society. What can anyone say about the dignified decent gentlemen of the Officerial Representation, who, in the waves of three and five, were in the Chamber where the committees met on this multi-project, shouting evenly, fully adapted to clear - were visible - scene instructions? Uninfected, uninfected and free from all responsibility for the country's suffering is exterminated! The native Central Left, having divorced from its European counterpart, is reborn from its ashes, completely cleaned, and from the responsibilities of governing the pre-memorandums and for memoranda. It has nothing to do with that idyllic image of Kastelorizos, where the beginning of our period of suffering was announced. He doesn't remember anything, he doesn't know anything, he wasn't here! Welcome to our country, ladies and gentlemen! Welcome to the country where Law 4270 was passed in 2014 under the name "Administrative Mechanism" and where Articles 33 to 41 describe the operation of the cutter, signed by the government Antonis Samaras. Welcome to the country where the multi-brand Memorandum Laws are cancelled, such as the one to create and sell "small" PPC, and to sell 66% of IPTO, the subsidiary of PPC, that is to say, which manage electricity transmission networks. Previously, the spokesman of the New Democracy wanted to dismantle this story, but unfortunately. Unfortunately for you, memorial laws are cancelled by the present SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Many more memorial laws will be abolished and normality restored. Welcome to the country, where at last with the ratification of the forest maps, thousands of our fellow citizens are released. I am not personally concerned by the exact villas, the exact areas, which have swimming pools and helicoways, but by ladies and gentlemen, in the Attica region, where I am politically active, thousands of poor valves ran into areas such as Keratea, Aspropyrgos and elsewhere and set up their lives. You've used them hard all these years. You kept them hostages. Now they are released and at the same time all other spaces are protected. Even half a brick can no longer enter the areas where maps are laid down, in which settlements and inhabited areas are not included. Welcome to the country where the SYRIZA - ANEL Government grants rents, offers free electricity, cares for the feeding and the water to our fellow citizens' households, which you had made out of society. Welcome to the country, where the days of interlocutory ends, where the prosecutors' offices of all kinds of tax collect, who run on international lists and where blackmailers, your wages, and the slogans of "Papastaurou", are revealed and the flesh of your flesh. We will proceed with an ambitious economic productive plan, which will stem from the needs of the country and the people and which will be implemented and supported by what is best available to this place of life. Together with all the Greek people we will strive for the country to recover, with justice, transparency and optimism, for the future that the Greek people deserve and deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u458	Thank you very much. Mr. Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u459	Ladies and gentlemen, I am following the members of the government and Members of the parliamentary majority in defending themselves with the same passion - blind passion, you will allow me to say - and with the same incomplete self-confidence all the outstanding things that the government's policy has been moving in the last eighteen months. What's the curve that's been formed? We started from the illusion of alternative policy, from the illusion of a radical policy that would go beyond the memorials, would solve the problem of shameful debt, would give money. We then went to the ruptured flirt with the ruptured, with the top act, the referendum, which, in essence, was overturned the next day. And from there, gradually, we have actually reached a compromise, not a negotiation, but an absolute subjection. A common element of this whole curve is the pursuit and maintenance of power, which is the only coherent fabric, perhaps the only value. They've reminded you many times these days what you've been saying. You said: 'No wage cuts and pensions, not a sale of public property, not in English law, not a tax policy, not a dead-end austerity'. I won't ask you each and every one of you personally what you're feeling. What do you really feel, what is this, which vindicates you in your conscience? You will tell yourself at some point, in your electorate, in the Greek people, in history. The question, which is being asked objectively and which concerns each Greek citizen, is whether what has happened in the last eighteen months, going to the third memorandum and everything that followed and following, was something inevitable. If you continued on January 26, 2015, when you first formed a SYRIZA-ANEL government, in the context that you found in January 2015 from the previous government, where would the country be today? Would it be better or worse? Everyone understands, agrees, that the country would be in a much better place. If the complete submission, the absolute conversion, the contact with realism was eighteen months ago, you know what would be the benefit of the country, what would we have avoided? You have in cold blood, for reasons of purely political, party reasons, for reasons of small, large and deep damage to the place, to the economy, to the new generation, to the national power itself. And now, a year and a half later, after two lost financial years, what we have to deal with is not just a return to the recession, the loss of the value of the banks' stock, new tough measures with material repercussions. I wish that was all. This is not a third memorandum which has become fourth. I wish that was it. Now this is a memorandum in the bi-monthly, without any additional parametric changes to the debt that are secured and are applied beforehand, without real policy for growth, for competitiveness, for the country's equal position within the European Union. The examples have been said many times. Of course, and we are in favour of privatisation. But we never accepted this kind of superstition, which the creditors have always asked for. Because this is not about privatization. This is a subtraction of all jurisdiction over the wider public sector and the real estate of the public sector. And all this comes to the effective control of the troika, the creditors, in the dilemma. And it doesn't matter to Greek law or who's at the general assembly or the Minister of Finance. It is important that the administration is not appointed without the consent of the so-called institutions, the troika, namely creditors, and no decision is taken without their own agreement. Do you know what reactions this would have caused on your part if it had occurred in 2009 or 2010 or 2011 or 2012 and so in those circumstances? Are you thinking about that? For the automatic cost-cutting mechanism, I will say that yes, of course, we have an obligation to comply with the budgetary pact, the Stability Pact, like all countries. And this has been introduced into the Greek legal system. Is that what this is? Oh, no. Now it's all out of the Chamber. The budgetary authority shall be cancelled, even if it is formal. It is not an iron budgetary rule. This is the complete tradition of fiscal sovereignty in the inter-institutional world. Not as all countries do in order to shape the European phenomenon, European integration, transferring powers, but being subject to constant custody without end. The measures are not being implemented under the financial and macroeconomic conditions of 2010, 2011, 2012. You found a country that is fiscally stable, with a positive growth rate and a primary surplus. In any case, you voted for the Income Tax Act and the Insurance Act. Now, do you realise what is going on with VAT and what encouragement are you doing in the black economy and in the black economy? Not to talk about new taxes and new charges on anything that exists, anything that works, anything that moves. The top one is HISPIA. What can I say about that now? That it is completely different to have a fiscal objective that is 1.6 billion in the conditions of 2011 with the 2011 real estate and return prices levels, and that you have the current fiscal pursuit of 4 billion, with the current real estate market conditions and without any tangible prospects? All this, ladies and gentlemen, in what institutional environment is happening? Because it is of great importance to the institutional and political environment. Are you not concerned about the fact that matters of democracy and the rule of law are constantly being raised? Does the situation in justice not concern you, which is an unprecedented conflict at the top of justice with the active involvement of the Ministry of Justice? And what happens with your fight against interlocutory what is it? I think it is an exchange of messages with business interests that come into contact with the government and then their issues are settled and regulated by law. That's all the time over the last few months. This draft law also deals with issues relating not only to the Competition Committee, but also with other provisions which have at times come to eighteen months. With regard to foreign and defence policy, do you understand what this kind of NATO's presence always means, in the Aegean Sea and the eastern Mediterranean, what a change in the situation there is and how much national power is being supervised at the most sensitive point? If we had this presence, due to a refugee, NATO in the Aegean Sea and we had this revival of unilateral and unacceptable Turkish claims under other political conditions, this would now be the major issue. The issues of sovereignty, democracy and national power would be your flag. Which "mark"? The flagship of a nationalist front behind which hides what? A falsifying analysis that "we are interested in plunging society, we want to cancel the middle class, we do not care for national savings". However, without that there is no growth, there is no entrepreneurship, there is no prospect, there is no answer for the unemployed. And after you have made the political deception of the public debt, saying various fairy tales to the Greek people for a shameful debt, for unilateral actions, for write-offs, now begging you to take the follow-up of the PSI and the OSI of 2012 and do not take it - while this country is entitled to - and it has agreed, but creditors are now retreating - without putting the big issue, which is the correct display of the debt at present value, because that is where the debt seems to be much smaller, that is, eighty points less, according to the most lenient calculation, 98% of GDP and not 180% of GDP. We recently talked about this with many colleagues at an international conference in Los Angeles. But now there is another political deception of the primary surpluses of 4.5%, 3.5%, 2.5%, 1.5%. But when was this debate disconnected from the pace of growth sought? The country had - I have told you - nine years of constant primary surpluses, from 1994 to 2003, but with satisfactory growth rates. That's possible. You can have primary surpluses with growth rate that's satisfactory. Instead of negotiating the pace of growth and how it will be achieved with creditors and with national creditors, we are dealing with the numerator, namely, how much the primary surplus will be. Why? Because they say it is unlikely that we had a high target, so we would be burdening the Greek people. But the high target would come from the high growth rate. And loss is tragic for the economy and the country. Now let me tell you something. If this shift, if this new passion of yours, the subjection was driving somewhere, it was taking the country out into the clearing, I'd say the carpet and the carpet of yours. But is this going to happen? Will the economy recover and be a political benefit to you? Unfortunately, it will not happen, because the economic problem is secondary. It needs political and social confidence and that does not exist. So, you're locked in on your own, and you're entangled in the country. Is that a problem of legalisation? Evidently it creates and feels in social reactions, it feels in your conscience, other than confessing it or not. And here it does not stop the real question of the world: can we achieve national excesses? With the attitude of the government, with this style of authoritarianism, monotony, micro-participation, not, of course! There are no conditions for national overrun. Because, as I said before, there must be institutional, political and social conditions and these cannot be guaranteed for the country. Unfortunately, we are doomed if you continue to rule the place, in a staggering bankruptcy that wastes national time and national capital. You need to understand this in order to understand the size of your historical responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u460	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, forty-one students and six educational sessions from the 2nd and 3rd Municipal School of Thessaloniki Passports. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Evangelos Apostolos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u461	We, Mr Venizelos, have no problem saying what we feel. We're always honest. And we would expect, at least, from you - and I mean, of course, your co-pilots in the New Democracy - to be honest at some point. For all this, which we are talking about and many more difficult and which Greek society experiences, is not the responsibilities of past governments and their representatives decisive and time-consuming? I am not saying that the responsibilities are exclusive, but are they not absolutely decisive for all that has been established so far? So, ladies and gentlemen, why do you not understand, even assuming that a debate on this year's complaint, at the level of any institution and, in particular, in the House, legalises your past and ensures the future? Ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that for the current state of affairs a government of sixteen months is responsible. The first and second government of SYRIZA has never been in power until now. We had to face the situation of the economy and society caused by your own policy from the very beginning. To keep the economy and society up and running and, at the same time, to negotiate a difficult but sustainable solution, in an environment of negative correlations in Europe and, as the Prime Minister has said, a sedated and undermined field. For example, you have made commitments to primary surpluses and even stable at 4.5% of GDP. It is, in fact, funny when it is not outrageous, when you come, colleagues of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, and you leave us under parliamentary control in many cases on issues relating to your own choices and commitments. Refugee us - I say this for the second time - because we are negotiating fines and charges and saying to us: 'We have done it. You have a responsibility now whether you will complete the negotiation or not." This whole process, ladies and gentlemen, which, as I have said, has been characterised by a tough negotiation with the institutions and the response to the results of this policy, has now reached a critical turning point. Conditions are being created for the economy to function in a more stable environment, with specific, of course, commitments, but also with a view to passing through the period of extreme recession in a period of recovery and growth. I have said on other occasions that the solution is not to manage poverty and misery, but to raise the pie, produce wealth and slowly win the GDP lost in recent years. And here comes the question: Can our country produce new wealth, be found in a growth orbit? Yeah, maybe. It can with a strategy that has specific objectives, a strategy that will highlight the comparative advantages that will exploit development and financing tools, which will favour and attract investment, which will support innovation, build on the accumulated dynamics of society and young people. they've been trapped for so many years and they're looking forward to working and creating. The whole government is moving in this direction. And it's gonna be more obvious after the canvas we're supposed to have to go through now. We have been struggling hard, especially in tax and insurance problems. We managed to end the time when the farmer was a second-class citizen. Two basic regulations have been implemented for this: the introduction of individual tax-free income and the safeguarding of lower national pensions. With the combination of the arrangements that we have brought to the insurance and tax sector - which not only the farmers themselves had asked for - not only will there be no impact, but, on the contrary, it will benefit more than 90% of farmers. By tightening the conditions for the main-professional farmers, which we have introduced - we have always called and said that we must support the main-professional farmers - we want to ensure that the area, which starts with the tax-free ones that I have mentioned, is treated particularly well until it is involved in the implementation of the rural development programme. What needs to be understood is, however, that this regulation, which currently concerns the two hundred and seventy-seven thousand farmers in the Farmer's register, is also substantially extended to pensioners. As you know, over 100 thousands of retired farmers and particularly rural workers are engaged in agricultural production. And we want them to produce. They will benefit from the tax-free limit, which I mentioned earlier, which means that the figure is more than four hundred thousand farmers in total. And you know that farmers, who declare income, are under five hundred thousand, are about four hundred and fifty thousand. As a result, more than 90% of agricultural income will benefit from this treatment. That is what we wanted, and particularly for mountainous and disadvantaged areas. There again, if you insist that there is no duty-free payment, you forget that in these areas aid, which accounts for over 12 000 people, is taxed. They are not taxed from 12 thousand backwards. We, ladies and gentlemen of the PASOK and of the New Democracy, have now had to move within a framework which was defined by your own choice by the way the new CAP is implemented, by the organization of the subsidy payment system, by the content of the European Union's bilateral trade agreements. Not to talk, of course, about fines and charges, because we have been told before. However, as data and studies show, the rural area is an area that can be the driving lever of a new development process. I have to tell you that we are already working with an integrated strategic plan, regardless of whether or not the issues of everyday life are the ones that appear to be at the forefront. For example, the legislative initiatives brought by the Ministry of Rural Development for cooperatives or grazing land are not batteries in the air. They are part of a strategic planning for the agricultural sector, which you will see unfolding the next period. The battle we fight for feta is not just a battle for the name. It is completely interwoven with our plan for livestock farming and, in particular, for sheep and goat farming. The initiative to introduce the Farm Card is not an opportunityal policy. It forms part of the planning to address the lack of liquidity and the high cost of production. Our policy on the exploitation of schooling agricultural land and rural property is on the basis of strategic choices for young farmers, cooperatives and livestock farming. The options that we make in the way we implement the Rural Development Programme are not to facilitate one way or the other, absorption or specific options. We have identified specific development opportunities and comparative advantages on which the Rural Development Programme will spread. [[At this point, the closing bell of the Secretary-General's speaking time is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I have to answer Mr. Venizelos about how we feel. I answer honestly. We have made a difficult political choice since September 2015. Taking into account this historic time and not wishes, expectations and absoluteness - and with what this means, as I said before - under pressure from international and internal correlations, we have made a political choice for this historic juncture, for there to be no other way along the way because it would have catastrophic results. That was our choice. Yes, we did and do not forget our ideas, nor our principles, nor the positions we have on the perspective of Greek society. We are trying, as far as possible, to adopt them - what we believe - in the difficult context, which is, in fact, shaped by the agreement. Yes, well, we have chosen through this agreement to fight, to save the people from the worst, especially the weakest economic and social classes, and above all, to keep the middle and lower classes alive, especially in the countryside. So we're honest. We're trying to keep people alive, step on our feet, start all people's lives again in new and more sustainable conditions. We have been fighting torture for months with lenders, of course, not without mistakes and inadequacies, but with determination and patience, a proposal - a word - to save anything that is saved. And that's what we're gonna do! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u462	Thank you, Mr. Apostle. Mr Simos Kedicoglou, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u463	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is stunning, creepy, I would say, the blind submission of the government and its Members to the doctrine of 'powerlessness at all costs' or, most importantly, 'all for the chair'. The masks are down. You're not the left ones you're talking about. You are Makabels, loyal only to the principle of "the purpose justifies the means". And your only purpose is to stay in power by any means, at all costs to society. Idealness, inability, irresponsibility, along with your cynicism and horror, have brought disastrous results. They brought the fourth memorial. You said you'd cut out the memorial and finally brought a memorial with a cutter. These unheard of measures brought to Parliament are the result of your administration. It is the result of your negotiation and of the 86 billion euros that you have cost the Greeks, as the Chief of the Bank of Greece said. Mr Varoufakis tried to disprove it, but given the untrustworthyness that you yourself have given to Mr Varoufakis, I imagine that the Baroufakis denial is a confirmation. You said a lot of fairy tales to get power. You even said more fairy tales to keep it. But what you've been saying these days in this bill is beyond precedent. It's a hypocritical oscar. You say, for example, that in the coming tax storm you are protecting the weaker. With EUR 1.8 billion in indirect taxes, are you protecting them, which are evenly distributed to everyone, who is most burdened by the poor? Why a half-euro increase in cigarettes is much heavier for people, who get 600 euros than for him who gets 1,500 euros. So I don't remember what you were saying about HISPIA and what you're bringing. You're bringing great increases. And I'm not talking about Chapel and Psychic. I'm talking about the district, about the villages. Think of the café of a small village. You have recently tripled his insurance contributions. Now you're raising HISBIA. Unless you think the coffeeman and his apologies are rich. Besides, in SYRIZA's new language, where the pension cut is "recalculation", the poverty threshold has become a wealth limit. And that's how the middle class disappears. Especially the village's cafeteria must be viewed as very rich if we take account of the new tax burden on coffee. This is an absurd burden, which will not only increase revenue - you will see it - but will also lead to dramatic job losses. Do you know how many people are currently employed in the coffee business, production, commerce? Have you calculated the consequences? Because people on this market say that the consequences will be heavy. Such warnings have also been mentioned by representatives of operators here in the committee. But don't listen to them! You let them talk for three minutes, and you took them out. Besides, at the root of the evil of your governance is your heart against the private sector. You demonize, target the world of entrepreneurship, the world of production. You do not understand that the only hopes of growth lie in the private sector. That's why you're gonna fail. So you need to leave as soon as possible. Indicative is the case with micro-breeding. We are talking about businesses that have been set up and bloomed in the difficult years of the crisis. We are talking about laudable cases, which we had to see how to multiply. And what are you doing? You're kicking 'em out. You're busting them with an insane, extra tax. For the first time, the Special Tax on Consumption is increased only in a kind of beverage. And who's benefiting? Imported competition. So, what are you doing? You are destroying Greek businesses, favouring foreign companies. But to come to the articles in the area of responsibility, which Mr Mitsotakis has given me, the maritime sector, in particular Articles 107 to 132, to see that even when you arrived, you are going to do the right thing, you are doing the wrong thing. I am talking about the privatisation of the Piraeus Port Authority, about the agreement signed by the Prime Minister, but it is difficult for the Minister responsible to digest. These articles concern the creation of the Port Regulatory Authority and the Public Port Authority. Let's start with the Port Regulatory Authority. In theory, it becomes an independent authority and that is a good one. After all, this is something foreseen by our 2013 law. In practice, however, you are making it an independent authority. Because the principle is essentially chosen - the members of the authority and its president - by the government. If you really wanted it to be independent, it should be chosen by the Conference of Presidents, such as the Radiovision Council. In addition, you are giving the regulator police and judicial superpowers unprecedented, which raises serious legal questions to an unconstitutional level. The most serious problem, however, with the regulator is that its administrative powers are confused with the rights it exercises on behalf of the Greek State. In other words, the regulatory authority determines and imposes the criminal clauses resulting from a concession, and then, if the parties have objections or objections, they must go to the regulatory authority. There is an American expression saying, 'Judge, jury and executioner'. Mr. Tsakalotus will know it or anyone who sees Western.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u464	English, I know, not American.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u465	Well, let me translate it. He is a "judgment, juror and executioner". What you're doing here is a cop, a judge, a jury, an executioner. And all that from the Minister's chosen ones. If, with the regulatory authority, we have something necessary, which is done in the wrong way, the Public Port Authority is something completely inappropriate. Indicatively, the powers of the public authority are not specified. The overall description of responsibilities creates serious problems of overlapping - take note - not only with the Port Regulatory Authority, not only with the Secretariat-General of Ports and Port Policy, not only with the Ministry of Finance, not only with the Competition Committee, not only with the Labour Inspectorate. It's an incredible mess! The only competence, which is expressly mentioned, is to monitor the application of collective agreements and, more generally, labour legislation, i.e. trade union police. Congratulations, even the Bolsheviks of Lenin had not thought of that. So why is it created? In order to satisfy his ideas, the Minister and, of course, to suit his chosen ones from the Piraeus Port Authority. With a signature they're transferring. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. We would treat them all with graphics if there were no serious complications in the privatisation of the Piraeus Port Authority. This is what I understand from the amendment tabled by the rapporteur for the Independent Greeks, who wants to amend these articles, saying in the explanatory statement - your government partner is the amendment - that it is necessary to ensure that the awarding of regulatory and regulatory powers to the RAL does not aim to amend directly or indirectly the conditions of concessions or laws that ratify them, as well as the institutional framework of competition. What's going on? Is that how you get in touch with your government partner? Do you have any understanding with the Minister of Shipping? Because here I see a problem. Of course, these provisions are unacceptable, as are the entire bill. Of course, when you make cuts, don't go straight to the special payroll. The increases to your chosen ones are 150,000,000 euros. Don't you cut something out of there? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u466	Thank you, Mr. Kedicoglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u467	Mr President, I would like the floor for a minute to clarify.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u468	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u469	I would like to make a clarification for a minute, because I know that another speaker has heard it, and we have heard it from the latter, regarding the issue of the burden on the village's cafeteria by HISA. We can argue about too many things and have different estimates on too many things. But please tell us what article in the bill is what you refer to. There's nowhere in the village's café a burden from HIS.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u470	There's a burden on all in the villages. EVIA in the villages is growing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u471	From the information from the General Accounting Office submitted by the Minister responsible, Mr Juliarakis, he said so to the Committee on Economic Affairs: The target remains at 2.65 billion. And one of the elements given to us by the GDR service actors, six million taxpayers will have the same or reduced HPAI and six hundred thousands of taxpayers will pay an additional HPAI. This is our political difference and I understand it, but there is no way that the village's cafeteria is in the six hundred thousand richer Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u472	Mr President, I would like the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u473	Mr. Kedicoglou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u474	The image we have is different. There will be increases in the region. And in any case, you've broken him up by the insurance contributions and the increase in the taxation of everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u475	That was...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u476	Until now, for settlements under the two thousand inhabitants, we had...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u477	Read Article 40(3).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u478	No interactive conversation, please. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Santorinios, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor. Mr. Santorinier, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u479	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, because Mr Kedicoglou said about the village's cafe, Article 40(3) of the previous bill, the village's cafeteria continues, as you mean, to be in the OGA regime. Okay? Let's get this over with. And because you said about the village's cafeteria, one or two minutes is the burden on the coffee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u480	How old is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u481	One or two minutes in the cup of coffee. That's it, so we don't create impressions. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me as it was yesterday when the then head of the New Democracy, as well as many members of the New Democracy, were inviting us to work together. Let me remind you, of course, that the elections were held at the time while both the New Democracy and the other parties, other than the JRC and the Golden Dawn, had signed and voted for the agreement with the institutions. Really, in what very context did you invite us to cooperate? But obviously in the context of this agreement. Isn't that right? And I ask: did the agreement provide for 1% of GDP to be taken from indirect taxes? Did the agreement provide for the obligation to regulate red loans? Did the agreement provide for the establishment of a State Property Assessment Fund? Did the agreement provide for the abolition of the VAT rebate on the islands? What exactly did you invite us to work with? To change the terms of an agreement? You've proven you don't know how to negotiate. And how did you prove it because Mr. Venizelos said that we have caused great damage, and so did Mr. Kedicoglou who left now? You have proved this for years, because you have brought 25% recession to the country, you have brought 27% unemployment, you have brought 63 billion euros into measures. We told you, then, that we do not need with us those who led the country to recession and impoverishment, because we promised that we would respect the agreement, but, at the same time, ensure the public interest and the interest of the people. In the last few hours, I can see that you have been put, through your speeches, in a contest of lies and misled. Lying and deceiving! A bunch of lies about the new fund. Let's get a few things straight. This fund, unlike the GOI, will have the task of exploiting it rather than selling it. The Fund's revenue will go by 50% to debt repayment and 50% to development projects. The CPOs are going through the fund for management rather than for sale. Let's get this thing done with a fairy tale. You still do not understand that the vast majority of the properties that you had granted to the HIDE for the sole purpose of selling, leaving the HIDE and going to the ETAD, a company that has proved that, in terms of public interest, it can guarantee the proper management of public property. Because Mr. Venizelos asked if something justifies us today, I personally am entitled to something. I am vindicating that almost all of the island of Rhodes had been awarded to the GOE for a sale and today there are three properties of which one is Golf Afantou, which is already signed a contract. And what's righting me? That the fillets of Rhodes, the harbor of Lardos, the beach of Tsabikas, Agathi, Villa "De Veki", the forest of Prophet Ilia - listen, the forest of Prophet Ilias had given TIED - escape the sale. So is the beach in Mastichari, Kos and other fillets in the country. As far as the administration of the fund is concerned, things are far away from what you're saying. I told you yesterday. You have created a fund in your mind, as you would legislate - I understand it, because you know how to legislate - and you shoot it. That's your right. But don't shoot what's inside the law, because it's not the way you say it. The company's supreme body is the general meeting, i.e. the Minister of Finance. The majority of the Supervisory Board - 3/5 - belongs to the Greek State and the two members of the institutions require the assent of the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance shall participate in the selection of the CEO and the Management Board. It is controlled by the General Assembly, i.e. by the Minister of Finance, while the company's strategic plan and the investment plan include the general guidelines of the Minister of Finance. Any privatisation, therefore, proposed by the boards of directors of the company, should be approved by the Minister of Finance. In view of this, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people's problem is not the new fund. The problem of the Greek people will be whether the mistake is made and one of you is in charge of finance. And not for the provisions of the company being voted on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I wanted to talk about red loans, but I won't make it. Mr. Statakis, I imagine you'll say better than I do. Just to say, as far as red loans are concerned, that housing is protected at an objective value of up to 140,000. And because things have been heard, this is about business. For the rest of the citizens, the Katseli Act applies, as it has been adopted. Isn't that right, Minister? Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that no one can welcome the adoption of indirect taxes. Personally, coming from the Dodecanese, I regard as a problem the imposition of the night charge and the abolition of the special duty on alcohol. For both I consider their transition to 2018 to be positive. In particular, for the night’s fee, I have already proposed that it be replaced by the taxation of the tourist rental of dwellings via electronic pages, a measure which, as well as greater revenues, is a request from tourist operators. Ladies and gentlemen, the demand for creditors to increase VAT on electricity and water, which would be particularly bad for poor families and small and medium-sized enterprises, has led us to legislate on indirect taxes, but which we have dispersed in a wide range of ways so that households can have an effect as much as possible. We look the people in the eyes and prove to them that we are trying in difficult conditions to rebuild the hope that will come with the final settlement of the debt and the development initiatives that we will be taking shortly afterwards. I'm sure we'll make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u482	The speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u483	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, since Thursday, the Greek people are aware of what is tragically changing for the country and for the future of the next generations. Firstly, the transfer of the country's movable and real estate to the supranational for ninety years. Secondly, the permanent automatic budget cut by the House. That's what it's all about, that's the warning difference. Third, the tax storm in all goods and services. In essence, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, you are changing the model, the way in which the country is governed. You are alienating from the control of Parliament and the government the management of its property. You are effectively abolishing democratic and parliamentary control over economic governance. No politician, no government has so far allocated national interests. This is the definition of submissiveness. For the excess, - because it has been heard - by establishing the company you are bypassing the procedure laid down in the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament on legislative and economic governance. Three members of the board of directors will be appointed on the Greek side - you said so before - and two of the lenders, including the President. The decisions, however, will be taken positively by the four of the five members, making creditors in the biennial - and as long as this super-regulatory factor operates - a decisive factor, not for twenty, thirty, forty years, but for ninety years. Who gave this right, ladies and gentlemen? You with your vote. For the cutter, there I think it is appalling the slightness with which the government has legislated against national interests, condemning future generations in poverty and the country to be totally weakened and supervised by creditors. From Charilaus Trikoupis, we have to see this thing. While Mr Vernardakis stated that there would be no further reduction in the wages of civil servants, however, the text of the amendment does not exclude either civil servants or pensioners from their automatic application. It excludes, among other things, the cut-off of private claims for public contracts which the government obviously considers most important from protecting the income of employees and pensioners, as well as the dignity of this world. It is also a feeling that the General Secretariat of Public Revenue is exempted, independent from this point of view, but it is abolished otherwise by this bill. It is also possible to take permanent structural measures to replace the financial adjustment, including measures on the revenue side, which advocates the permanentity of the measures and the self-evident abolition of their current nature. But what matters is that we see taxes on all goods and services. New taxes are now invented and the existing ones, such as residence tax, pay-TV, coffee, electronic and conventional cigarettes, tobacco, are being introduced, and there are new rates of classification of passenger cars as well as an increase in fuel and heating oil. As regards farmers, the Government, once again, redefines the conditions which the adult natural person must cumulatively meet to be regarded as a professional farmer. In particular, the proportion of total income received from rural activity should be 50%, from 35% today. It also makes it difficult for Greek small farmers, who are still actively involved in agricultural production. With regard to HPAI, it is important that increases in HPAI which, according to previous statements by government officials, were being abolished. These are dissatisfied increases which will lead to a chaining negative impact on everyone's incomes and on the many-faced property market. In fact, with the implementation of the new scale for the additional tax, as compared to the previous scale, we have to note that the annual burden will now begin for real estate values of more than EUR 200,000. 25% of the tax goes to the in-project plots and 20% to non-electrical land, due to the abolition of the tax exemption. I would like to say a few words about the General Secretariat for Digital Policy. The draft law submitted is half the text discussed in the consultation. In particular, there are missing units related to the security of systems and internal control, security, support and maintenance of central infrastructure, financing and State aid, as well as all sectors and the Council of Sectors. Where will you give these missing areas? Did you in the private sector? It is a purely final structure, which is set up under the Prime Minister. What for? There is no country with the General Secretariat of Digital Policy under the Prime Minister's Office, and in fact there is no intervention in implementing bodies. As to where you were going, in fact, there is an extension of the statement on real estate of more than EUR 30 000 and loans. Door leases and cash above EUR 15 000 will be reported. While a bill is coming that includes, among other things, the establishment of new authorities and administrative services and extends the scope and transparency, as the government suggests, we have not seen that there is a clear indication of the obligation to submit to those authorities established in this bill anywhere. For all this, I think that this bill is the country's change of course to the worst, with a commitment for the next too many years of the basic assets. But you will allow me, for thirty seconds, to ask about the infamous amendment with number 440/84, which, as I read, inhibits wage maturation and promotes those paid with special wages - i.e. judges, military officials, diplomats, doctors, university teachers - from 1/1/2017 to 31/12/2018. In other words, as these people's payroll will be arranged on 31/12/2016, it will remain the same for the next two years. If I understood correctly, it rejects Mr. Kammenos's promise to reward uniforms with improved special payrolls in the years to come. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I think the government should give an answer here. When did he tell the truth? When he promised everyone everything, and in particular an increase in their special wages, or a restoration of them, or today which has been freezing them for another two years? For these reasons and for those I have just said, I believe that this bill only worsens a dangerous policy for the country, whose interests will be at stake for years, even when you have abandoned power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u484	Thank you, Mr. Papatheodorou. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u485	Ladies and gentlemen, in the next few hours, the political deception phase of the Greek people by SYRIZA and ANELs, and especially by the Prime Minister himself, has already admitted it - by speaking of his fraud. Is it for granted, in our language, that when you deceive yourself, what about others? What are you doing to them? You're cheating on them. "Baroufakia" with the ignorance of arrogance and boldness that led to Vaterlo. As I said this morning, the Tsakalonia led this government to swallow exactly what they serve. This is how they are going to burden the Greek people unnecessarily and excessively, in order, ladies and gentlemen, not only to sit on their ministerial chairs, but also to put a safety belt on them, not to escape. That's not all I'm saying. It's yours, too. Many Members tell you this weekend intrigued by shaping, a new type of political man, Syrizeus Clapsicus. It is not just a question of ladies and gentlemen, the negotiation you have failed. Remind the refugee, where you have raised issues relating to our national interests, to Greek-Turkish, to the development where you emerged as persecutors of investment, even in football where you went to for wool and you came to us tidy and refreshed. But what have you brought us here today? We talked about the supremacy of the national laundering this morning. Colonial arrangement. The rapporteur, Mr Koutsoukos and the rapporteur for the River Mr Amyras, did well by reminding us of the international financial control of 1898. New colonialism with pacta continua. Secondly, green and red loans. You think the people don't understand? Unsecured and serviced loans are sold free of charge. Entrepreneurial, housing, consumer, even those associated with the first residence, with the exception of those associated with first residence of EUR 140,000 for a year and a half. All this without the government answering whether it is in its intentions, at least in parallel with or after that, to bring about changes in bankruptcy in order to give the second chance to the poor, that is to say, tens of thousands of our fellow citizens who are financially dead and who are entitled, as is the case throughout the Western world, to the second opportunity. Third, for HISPIA. I remind you of what I said in the morning. "We will increase the ESS, we will abolish the ENPIA." These were their contours. They did exactly the opposite. They're increasing the ETUC and they're abolishing the ETUC. It's paradoxical and sad for those sitting there. Another number of families shows that the Deputy Minister, Mr. Juliarakis, is affected and by 100,000 the Deputy Minister, Mr. Alexiadis. If the Treasury does not do well with the figures, then what the rest of the government, the parliament and above all the Greek people will say. For direct and indirect taxes. This has somehow been covered by the alpine impression that your colonial regulation on the supra-company will sell what it has and does not have the Greek State. However, ladies and gentlemen, the measures resulting from these regulations, tax content, indirect and direct taxes, from this draft, in the report by the General Accounting Office of the State, which also makes an approach, must be close to 1.8 billion. I would remind you that the previous draft law lacked some 400 million or 600 million depending on the approaches. Why this great overtaxation by direct and indirect taxes? I have heard a majority colleague say 'the cutter will be left on paper'. The cutter's here. It starts with the uncertainty that it will cover the revenue it has set aside 15 days ago and today, and it has the first pillow for the government - a problem for the people of 1.4 billion more. In tourism 74 million, conventional telephones and pay-TV 90 million. The increase in VAT from 23% to 24% will bring revenues for the State for this year 255, totalling 437 and others. They are all recorded in the reports accompanying this draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, one more issue that has not been discussed in sufficient detail: I am the politician who has made the greatest cuts in waste and corruption in drug, at all levels. It is a mistake, I was saying, and I kept it, even though the troika had an opposite view, and I succeeded in keeping it in part with my next colleagues. In any case, what is happening today was not done either by Mr Lycharenzo - after me - or by Mr Georgiadis or Mr Vorides - the sale of unprescribed medicines, many of them, by the general trade. I was told - there are the papers of that dialogue - and I was saying no. And because I was credible in reducing drug waste and interaction, I achieved this. You're giving it today. It's wrong. It's wrong. It is wrong and it is not universal to use this practice in the European Union. There are countries that have it and states that do not have it. And a state that has ten thousand units of pharmacy that sell these products must not look into it indifferently, just as you are looking at them and the negotiators. One more thing, which was also not sufficiently careful today. Ladies and gentlemen, seven new public services are being set up by this draft law, two secretaries - one special, one general - two administrative authorities, one government council, one new company - the one we spoke about - thirty information units, more than four hundred new employees will include these new legal persons, to the health of the sucklers who lost the CSCE and many related benefits. We said that it is not just that the CSCE is being lost, that the beneficiary of the CSCE also had reduced involvement in medicines. They said 'no'. They have brought an amendment that extends this protection, but for two years. They confessed that what we were talking about was right. They cover it - they can't, as they were - for two more years. And they do the fighters for the people. They make friends of the people. To the suckers, then, who lose the ESS. The new services, most of the state, the unsuccessful model of operation of the Greek state that was used to it, have stopped and now it's relaunching where it has a problem establishing a public service, regardless of whether it can or cannot help. Ladies and gentlemen of the ANELs, with the philosophical reason that you told the citizens that they were spraying us, I remember them and I look at you at the headquarters of the government today, saying what you are saying and I cannot understand what you were saying about us. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the Left of Maduro - I described it this way before the Prime Minister's letter to the Chief of Venezuela.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u486	Enough with populism, Andrea. Who are you going to convince with this populism?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u487	Turns out what I was saying was like that. You all lied - both of us together - about English law. All the trials of the Greek public were won. All the trials that took place at the expense of our country were won and won by the Greek State. You poison people with hatred. This is about English law and Luxembourg and all that you have said has proved to be air words. And today, as a government of resentment, abstraction and illusion, as you yourself say, of deception, you have to pay an account to the Greek people, because this is where everything is being paid! You're taxing everything that's moving. You're reducing pensions. You sell everything. You will remain in the political history of the place as the greatest liars and this fame will come after you, at least as long as the life of the company you are going to vote on today, at least for a century! [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] And since then you have been truly worthy of Theodore Diligiannis, your political ancestor. You're liars and populists! You will pay for it from the Greek people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u488	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, students and students and educational attendants from the 1st and 5th Graven Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u489	We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the most dramatic issues of the new historic period for a country with undeniably comparative advantages, beautiful, which has become a dose-dependent, over-debted, impoverished, under comitology, has been deprived of its financial independence. And the issues that we are discussing must be seen in the face of them. Just before Mr Venizelos tried to make the dilemmas of the time, which the first government had after 25 January, to make matters which were dealt with in the 20 September elections. Let's tell you very clearly: we've had enough to end up. The Prime Minister, the Government, the Parliamentary Group, faced the tough dilemma on July 12th to 13th: "Have you stayed or left the United Europe?" I know the answer the Communist Party of Greece gives. He'd like another course. We've come up with torture. The question of the forces that were saying that they have European orientation, about the forces which ended up that in the summer referendum Greece had to be in 'yes', how do they resolve these issues? Would you prefer that Greece should leave the United Europe? Let me tell you a few questions. The summit stresses the crucial need to rebuild a relationship of trust with the Greek authorities as a prerequisite for an agreement with a new ESM programme. In this context, it is essential that the Greek authorities take responsibility for adopting a package of measures which will be taken in full compliance with the institutions. It is from the official text of the Eurozone Nineteen leaders' summit of 12 and 13 July. The package of tough measures that have been decided - which we hope will be the last pains of a tragic period for the country - are described in detail in the memorandum of understanding. It is about two hundred pages, ladies and gentlemen. For your part, for the New Democracy, the PASOK - Democratic Integration, the River, the Central Union, you say: we have not voted on the measures, the holding company, the financial correction mechanism, the indirect taxes. We have only voted to save the country from the cliff, to remain in the euro area. And these come from those who continue to rally with unbearable lightness the dilemmas of the time, from those responsible for the knuckle with public money, for the unconscious movement of capital in tax havens, for Greece of exaggerated wealth and exaggerated poverty, for pimps, for the Christs, for the Acedes, for the Martinides, for the ten Papastaurs and plus, for Greece of the explosive dilemmas by a vicious, intertwined system of power, which has led to the loss of national independence. The measures - you continue to say - are the inspiration, ownership of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL. How serious this is, when the lenders were pressingly calling on the government to take over the European Stability Mechanism and the measures, when the New Democracy and the Potami were calling on us to adopt and love - we were told - the programme, when the IMF wanted blackmailing horizontal cuts, asymmetrical redundancies, more barbaric real measures? How serious does it sound, even to your ideological allies in Europe, and even to Juncker, who states: 'From the Greeks we have received a lot, let us give them a little bit of time to return at least their dignity'? How serious does it sound, especially in view of the Eurozone meeting on Tuesday? If the Greek Parliament ten months after the summit's decisions refuses to vote for the third package of forty-eight prerequisites adopted by two hundred twenty-one Member on 14 August 2015, what do you think will happen? Is there going to be a new negotiation on the different mix of measures that you choose and require full agreement with the institutions? Will the first evaluation of the implementation of the new Financial Objectives and Structural Reform Convention be positive? Will the July instalment of EUR 7 billion be disbursed for outstanding debts, the return of the profits of the European Central Bank, the participation in the quantitative easing bank? Will the serious debate on redemption - debt write-down, on the Reglin proposals and others? These questions, of course, must be answered very seriously, because Greece in the new era, with which I would like to conclude, is Greece, which on these issues must build its new plan. The government will be judged on its ability not to trigger the Financial Correction Mechanism, but under the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, to make the mechanism unnecessary, to draw revenue from smuggling, tax evasion, the wicked Greeks who are rich and are included in all the well-known lists and in the panama papers, to promote productive or administrative reconstruction, to promote the regeneration of the country, its independence, in a Europe we claim to be Europe, to promote the transition from the realm of coercive to the era that allows the right to the dream. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u490	The Member of the New Republic, Mr Arabatzi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u491	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the two-day debate in the Commission has revealed to the most skeptical, I imagine, that the MPs and ministers of the SYRIZA live in a world of their own, in a reality that they have diligently built themselves, leaving out, of course, the citizens, the truth and the logic. How else can one justify that you condone and celebrate for taxing everything in this country. What can anyone say to your MPs who, instead of apologizing and being ashamed of the age of women for the widows, for the abolition of the CSR to seventy thousand low pensioners, have the courage to call them taxfighters and move them as well? How can one explain the fact that certain enemies of the demilitarisations vote with both hands 'yes' in the new superstate that will give uno facto and without restrictions on the country's property to creditors for the next nine nine nine years? And if you think, of course, that what I am saying is too much and unpopular, seek to find the speech of your own Member, Mr Dimitras, who said that he "democrats who will vote to give up the property of the country in the hands of the lenders, that he mourns that he will vote to increase taxes". "Where we arrived is downwards," said Mr. Diaras. What he has forgotten, of course, is that in this catastrophic situation SYRIZA and your policy have brought us over the last one and a half years, the brave and proud negotiation of Mr Varoufakis, which cost us the third Memorandum - and the fourth and I fear - and 86 billion euros, have brought us into amoralism and your unlimited populism. You who, by means of a law and an article, would rip the memorial, day after day, in the House and you would annul HNPH, now increase HNPH on the plots, on the business, on the plots. You've disguised the farmers. Are the small and poor farmers in the villages, mountainous and disadvantaged regions, who are forced to make a second share, or can they be excluded from more than 50% of your annual income? What if this farmer loses the status of a farmer, will he lose the subsidies, will he lose the agricultural security, the LEAK, the welfare or the alleged duty-free? And I say the so-called duty-free, ladies and gentlemen, because this alleged duty-free, of course, is double and triple with the increase in insurance contributions and the taxation of agricultural subsidies from the first euro. Meanwhile, you increase cigarette tax, the Special Consumption Tax on beer, after all you did, of course, in Greek wine. And if there is a branch of the economy that boasts, which brings money to the public funds and jobs valuable, this is tourism, for the sake of which they collapsed, fortunately, only your illusions and not the country itself in 2015, which you decide and shoot consciously, of course by left idealism. And please do not listen to the well-known reasons, like Mr. Dimitris Kammenos, that those of us who are hitting the danger to tourism are harming the country and that you are supposed to have a tourism strategy. Was tourism a strategy for managing the refugee, which grayed the country's image as safe and harmless destination tourists? The strategy for tourism was to cancel reservations and prerogatives, to cancel cruises? Has your strategy been to issue the new visas for the Russians for months now, sending Russian tourists package to the competing countries? Is the strategy for tourism your indifference to exploit this year's unique geopolitical context for our country? And if the numbers are, fortunately, still high for tourism, don't be reassured by mere head and not revenue. Do not be reassured with the results of an acquired dynamic that we have delivered to you and you have left it on the autopilot. Run to collect the escaping profits of your wrong policies, like your new tourism tax policy, which has already caused the total outcry of the tourist industry. After you have already set in motion obstacles and charges, such as the increase in VAT on the islands, the abolition of reduced rates, you are now coming to finish the work. By increasing the rate from 23% to 24% and the indirect taxes you reduce the Greek family budget, of course, but you also bear a catalyst on the tourist package, which, especially for this year - I remind you - have been paid by our hotel owners, but also the tourist basket, making our country out of competition. The increase in the focus, on coffee, alcoholic beverages, museum tickets, fuel, car tax, fixed telephony and Internet, in heating is a blow to tourists and related businesses, such as tourist buses, travel agencies, car rental companies. And of course you keep going. The imaginary Mr Tsakalotos imposes a new proprietary tax, additional ENPIA, which bears to the extent to which the Greek hotels are suffocated. It is an absurd burden on the work tools, the production tools of the hotel owners. You who would protect the islands of the country are now abolishing the reduced rates in eleven more islands by blocking the conquest of Greek islands. And I am very curious to hear how he will justify another cubism after that of Mr Muzala, of course, Mr Kammenos. At the same time, of course, it is for you to write that in the Canary Islands, for example, there is no VAT, that in Corsica, France, but also in the Azores and Madeira, strong tourists from Portugal, there is reduced VAT. You have led to despair of the entire sector with the new tax-pay from 2018. I really do not know, ladies and gentlemen, if a modern computer makes provision for the time you have given us to work out the consequences of this fraud - the result of zero consultation, of course - to compare the burden that the Greek company accepts, how inconsistent the work in our country is for the competent people and how much it will cost to remission and unemployment the monstrosity you have brought to the vote. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] All that is obvious is that your rabies for power, the expectation of state leaping to perpetuate the regime of undignification and vigilance - a truly tertiary-world model of Venezuela and North Korea - can only be achieved by the execution of the last honest, capable and labour-intensive people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u492	Please, Mrs. Arabatzis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u493	And I'll take some time with your permission, Mr. President. And don't you dare say that the measures were imposed on you by foreigners, because unfortunately we know about you by Mr Dobrovsky that every time they suggest to you a reduction in costs, you are going to pay taxes. Perhaps it is because none of you have worked in the real economy. Another was thinking and another trade union. Maybe it's the delusion. You think that others' money is inexhaustible and you'll be homogeneous forever. And don't you dare talk about red lines again. If you have even a little emotiveness left, at least red at least tomorrow by shame that you will say 'yes' to everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u494	Thank you. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Chakalotos, has the floor. Eighteen minutes all right, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u495	Maybe a little more to tell about the negotiation and let me know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u496	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u497	Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard many times about the so-called negotiation. We heard worse, but I'd rather not say it. Evidently those who say about the supposedly negotiation haven't seen TV, but they haven't read newspapers in the last week. You know the finance ministers and the bank managers were in Tokyo for G7. Everyone was talking about Greek debt, what needs to be done about it, and that it is a serious issue, and this is the time to give a solution. Not everyone is convinced. Mr Venizelos tells us that debt was sustainable and we could serve this debt with primary surpluses of 4% because there would be growth. Obviously, in the shape of Mr Venizelos, we would not negotiate debt and surpluses, but on growth rates. I don't want to say what the solution will be on the 24th. We'll see, we'll all assess it together, see how satisfactory it is. I won't tell you what will exist, although I'm restrainedly optimistic. I'll tell you what won't exist. You will not see the footnote that says "with what we give the Greeks, we will trim the insurance funds". You will not see a footnote "with what we give you, we mock up the banks' bonds and we will need recapitalisation again". I can tell you that. I can also tell you that everything we get in the short and medium term and in the long term, if we take it now, will be by definitions, and will be objective. There will be no order of November 2012 that says "We will give the Greeks something if necessary". Now what we have negotiated, in the supposed negotiation, is that there will be automatic and objectively, what these two words mean 'if necessary'. That, I think, is a very important difference. I'll talk about other major differences later. I mean, I have a full understanding of those who say that even if we get something about the debt, that doesn't help a poor man right now, who's putting more taxes on him and he's in a very difficult situation. I fully understand this position and that position is right. But, on the other hand, I think, if we get something about the debt we will start the countdown, the reverse course of the Greek economy. Because it will be a signal on the markets that the Greek economy can manage its debt and therefore investors can invest in the long term. This in itself will help to compensate for the essential measures that we do take. And, as I have said, the disbursement we will receive will also help, because there will be things for the state's dues, but it will also help if we enter the monetary relaxation of the European Central Bank. So all this criticism we had "why you are messing with the IMF, which are our friends", which I have heard from the New Democracy in recent months that, in other words, we should not have against the IMF, does not seem to have affected the debt debate at all. And it seems to me even more strange what I heard last week that we had scandalous pretence from the IMF. At least two important New Democracy officials have said that the IMF favours us in an unacceptable way. What do New Democracy poets want to say? That it would be better for power, electricity and water to go from 13% to 23%? That instead of what we brought, we would reduce the pensions to another billion, which the IMF asked? That we should - listen to this, gentlemen of the JRC - not increase the rates mentioned above and redistribute income? Not to change the HNBIA the way we did it, where the 400,000, who are the only ones who pay the most, are from the top of the income? Is that what you meant when you told us the IMF was favouring us scandalously? What have we done instead of listening to the IMF on these issues? What we have done was instead of increasing VAT from 13% to 23% to a lot of measures, small measures costing accumulators. And we don't say it's all fair. Some are fair, some are more classic, such as when you tax the cars of the big companies that give their big executives and some other such things. We have tried to maintain some balance in these difficult measures, as we did in pensions, as we did in income tax, in order to reduce the impact on the poorest. We did the same with the cutter. So, the people who say that we were scandalally favoured by the IMF, what did they want? Instead of the cutter, instead of bringing 5.4 billion m to 9 billion? Is that what you'd like to do if we agreed to the IMF? Would you have brought 9 billion dollars instead of 5.4 billion dollars? So we brought the cutter, which, after all, is not our inspiration, and we did not ask for it, and it comes not as you say, because we have destroyed the country, but because of this same package of 5.4 billion, the institutions disagree among them if it reaches a surplus of 3.5% or 1.5%. But we went below - even though it is not our cut - and we put in dilemmas. That, for example, if the deficit is not related to the objective, but for reasons that we do not affect, the cut does not enter. We in this provision have supplemented that in the next draft budget we can make a better package of measures to deal with the divergence. So, what would you do if you had the objective that Mr Venizelos said that 4% could have set it forever and was 2% the surplus? Wouldn't you take measures? What's the big difference? No one has told us anything. About your favorite topic that you raised so much about the fund, I find it hard to understand why people who I consider smart and remarkable opponents do not understand the difference between the GOI and the fund. I don't understand why it's the same thing to have a fund that's just for privatisation, which has no part for investment. The difference we're talking about is that not all of the assets in the divestment. There's nowhere to be said by Mr. Vorides that everything is dived, not even what Mrs. Bakoyannis said to us that we're even selling the Acropolis! The EBRD's data goes to this fund and some of them will return. Not all the assets go. It's not like that. But half of all exploitation results either from privatisation or from the one we negotiated that night on 12 July with Alexis Tsipras by other means, namely by cultivation, with the care of assets. We try every obstacle to do it for good. And that's what we did. We did not like the fund, but did we say that this is an opportunity - those given - to finally make use of these elements that are garlic for the good of the Greek people, and that is to be done in favour of investment and our development plan? And when you tell us that we have committed the country for a hundred years and that we are committed to the next government, you are right: we want to commit the country to a development orbit. We want to commit the country to a change of page. And this goes through the use of the fund, which - you know - only serves the new debt, not the whole debt, such as the GOI. Mr Karathasopoulos asked and expressed a concern, which I am sure many Members and Members of Parliament will have it, if there is a danger to public goods. There's a danger. But we have also tried to do this in a good way by expressing an explicit reference to the law in the services of general economic interest. I am referring to Article 197(10). What do we provide with this reference to services of general interest in relation to the services and goods offered by ECHO? Excludes the commercialisation of goods services at the expense of the services of general interest of territorial and social cohesion or through the loss of their dimension as social goods. We are therefore trying to ensure a high level of quality, safety and financial accessibility, equal treatment of users, promotion of universal access and the promotion of users' rights. These are the efforts we have made, so that there is no commercialisation of these goods. You told us that there was no social control and that it was in the foreign hands. The Administrative Board of the Fund shall be required by law to discuss the annual report drawn up by the relevant committee of the Parliament. The President and the Chief Executive of the Sub-Category of the CECE shall present the programme to the Parliament at a public hearing. The Fund's strategic plan is approved by the Ministry of Finance. A member of the Board of Directors of the Sub-Government of the ECO is proposed by the Minister of Finance, on the basis of the professional criteria. The remaining members of the board of directors of the ECIs shall be appointed in cooperation with the supervising Ministry, on the basis of professional criteria. There is an explicit reference to the law that the CECE will seek to consult the business stakeholders. The business stakeholders are this beautiful English word, which does not have a good translation: streetholders. Because the great difference between neoliberals and left-wings is that we do not believe only in increasing Shareholder value, that is, only the value of private individuals, but in stakeholder, that is, local societies, workers, and all that we say in the public interest. We put that in. And there's too much else. That is why I am tabling a legislative improvement, which says that what is being done is not only in the interests of the company, but in the interests of the company and in the interests of the public interest. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos, presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvement, which reads as follows:]] Change Page [[Let the page come in. 456]] Change Page
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u498	I want to close up with a report from Mrs. Pappigiga, because Mrs. Pappigiga said something very right, which I believe is true. Mrs. Papariga says it's not the Samaras' fault that we got where we came from. It's politics. It is the interests of a ruling class who wanted to kneel down the people who were against the people so that they could be profitable. That's right so far. I agree, and I sign it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u499	You didn't hear it all. He said it was the politicians' fault. Why are politicians to blame?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u500	And politicians. But I gave this dimension. No objections. So what's our difference, since I agree with that? Our difference is in the formation of the JRC, that here's socialism, here's capitalism, and we don't say anything about how we create the correlations to go from here. And we say this is only when the people give you 30%, so you can manage it. We say this is only done when the people can explain, see that you are protecting the poor. We say that it is only when you set examples of collective action and institutions that see their value. Because the ideology, teammates of the JRC, doesn't change by epiphany. It changes when in practice people see that there are left-wing solutions. And the connections are changed primarily when there is hope, because the greatest enemy of the Left and the popular strata is desperation. That's why the Left Government's narrative goes on. In June, in the first week, you will have a bill both for electronic transactions and for voluntary disclosure and for smuggling of tobacco. You will also have a law on investment, because the narrative we had - which began with the recapitalisation of the banks, which continued with the closure of the first assessment and which will now be closed with a debt agreement - changes the agenda for development and social issues. That is why we have to agree today that this assessment must be completed. I said something to the committee that might have worried New Democracy. We read on Tuesday in Kathimerini - and I am tabling this in the Minutes - that Mr Mitsotakis thought that 'it would be good to support the Fund'. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is clearly said by Kathimerini. I said it was a pity that Mr Samaras would change that perspective. Twenty-three years ago a future Prime Minister threw the then prime minister down. Twenty-three years later I'm very afraid that same prime minister wants to throw another Mitsotakis, but before he became a prime minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u501	Thank you, Mr. Chakaloto. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Dendias, has the floor. Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u502	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must tell you that I was disappointed by the speech by the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotou. [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] You know, I remember him much more forward, much more optimistic, much more boastful for the achievements of the "first time left". Today we saw him measured and cautious. First of all, the Minister started his position on the debt issue. But what did he say? He told us a little - very much - and he prepared us for this: don't expect too much. You heard it clearly behind the lines. Where we would have had a 'cut', a definitive arrangement, an ejection, now he has prepared us for a firm wording, which, in any case, we will see on the 24th of the month and see and do. So far we have finished the big government debt account in whose name the government has been all over the last few years. But in addition to that, I saw him a little apologetic on tax issues, because I cannot forget - and the Minister will allow me not to forget - that he is the same Minister who had come here and told us, invoking statistics - but, you know, you can find whatever form you want, even me with long hair can show me through the Statistics - that the Greeks are being blamed. Now I've seen him very much. He said, "What would you like to do? We tried to increase VAT a little, not to increase VAT in some other things." The reality is, ladies and gentlemen, that you've increased everything. You have increased the rates of corporate income tax. You've reduced your tax duty. You have increased the rates of solidarity levy, and you have also simulated it. You have increased the rate of tax on premiums. You've increased the rent tax. You have abolished the discounts on the one-off payment of income tax. You have abolished the payment waivers of the ENVY. Minister, if I lose the bill somewhere and forget a tax, you tell me. You've increased the income tax advances to 100%. You have further taxed the distributed dividends. You have abolished the refund of the excise duty on oil for agricultural use. You have increased the income tax on farmers. You have increased the cost of raw materials in agricultural production. You have dramatically increased insurance contributions. You have increased HISFIA in the plots, parcels, businesses, in the flats. You've increased the tax on investment companies, cigarettes, beer consumption. You have abolished the special reduced VAT scheme. You've imposed extra tax on coffee. You've increased the tax on gasoline. You've increased the taxes on heating oil. You've increased the tax on diesel traffic. You have imposed a special charge on fixed telephony accounts. You've put an end to pay-TV bills. Apart from the end of the misappropriation, you also impose a special residence tax. You've taxed electronic cigarettes. You've increased the car registration fee. Honestly, I say to you, I am sure that you have imposed two - three taxes, which I have forgotten both sensitively and sympatheticly, and that the Minister does not correct me, so that it does not make me feel bad. That is what you have done, ladies and gentlemen, in the Greek economy! This is your development package! Two amendments are coming today, for which I asked the Minister - but he obviously did not have the opportunity - to respond to me, unwritten by Mr Kammens and Mr Toska, with which the New Democracy's provision of wage-earning in special wages, namely the Armed Forces, the Security bodies and in some other cases, is abolished. It is suspended for the next two to three years. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all it is completely unparliamentary that these amendments come without signatures from the relevant ministers. And the lack of signatures of the competent ministers is not a procedural shortage. For Mr Kammens, if the Internet informs us properly, he has at the same time made a statement, Mr President of the Government, and I am sorry to tell you this, but I imagine you already know it from your partners - that he will not vote for this if you do not give what the Council of State has given the officials. Can the government tell us, in any case, why does this also have to be imposed indirectly? Because in doing so it is a form of taxation. Generally, you don't make any savings anywhere. On the contrary, you do not stop setting up agencies in the State. You are creating - here, with the existing legislation - Digital Policy Secretariat. Since there is the General Secretariat of Public Administration and Electronic Governance. What does another secretariat need you? You create two new authorities in the port: Port Regulatory Authority and also, Public Port Authority. Can you tell us about the privatisation you have made - which you have continued, because we have done so - why do you create two principles at the same time? So, for every privatisation we're going to create two, three, four principles? Where are we going, ladies and gentlemen? And what's the need? Is that Mr. Dritsa's "antidote"? Besides, you appear as a fighter for strife and one in the two speakers of the Partnership comes here and burns us down, claiming that you are the bodies of the sword of law, you are the party that is going to fight the strife. You know, I as a new Member had voted against the Karamanlis government in 2005. And I have reminded you on several occasions that at that time you did not vote for the main shareholder. You have voted against both the principle and the most important articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u503	You're not right. Eight articles on the left had been passed. Don't say that, Mr. Dendia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u504	I am absolutely right because I have checked it, Mr President. Beyond that, ladies and gentlemen, will you do me a favor, if you wish, to look at provision 106 of this legislation? Would you like to tell me who this lifting of the criminal is, please, very much, after the charge of the Competition Authority? And if we bring this list of what this lifting of criminals, Mr Ministers, does the names it includes constitute the epitome of what the average man on the road calls a complication? Is that the fight against interlocutory? We therefore expect the list, ladies and gentlemen of the majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u505	It's a national interest. You should say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u506	So let's go down. There are in the legislature and ordinary beans, because in every piece of legislation brought by the government, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, there is always a rush. Small rosphetti, large rosphetti, huge rosphetti, unacceptable rushphetti, however. Look at Article 153. Enter a new term. "Condensation" is what you say. Let me see the expression. ‘Social condensation’. What does 'economy' mean? The Minister will find it, who will take a decision later. And where there is 'economy', what will happen? We're not gonna put it on the forest maps. Does that sound a little like an attempt to legitimise arbitrary people? But because WWF cried at you and various others and because you want to have them well with the policeman and the policeman, you also do the second puppet. You are subject to the provision 'under the terms of forestry legislation'. So close your eyes to the ones, close your eyes to the others. Are you telling us what you're going to do at the end?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u507	To Keratea and Aspropyrgos, say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u508	Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard the Minister buy for this surplus fund, this new publicly owned company - which has four legs - the HFSF, the EBRD, the HIDED and the new holding company to be created. And I heard him say that it's in the public interest, it's a good thing, it'll work for development. The same thing Mr Stathakis said - here is Mr Stathakis - previously. For a hundred years we will eat gold spoons, after we put it all under this single umbrella, which we previous governments, fools, did not agree with the foreigners who asked for it, but this government, who suddenly saw the great opportunity and agreed to it. Bravo! Well done! The previous Prime Ministers and the previous ministers who did not agree to this. I belonged to them, too. Here's the big chance to develop! How did we not see it, ladies and gentlemen, over the years we have been negotiating with the troika? How did we not realize that this is where a gold mine was hiding? And what's the gold mine, ladies and gentlemen? There is a share of the Greek State. But beware, again, of full legal certainty. The share of the Greek State in a public limited company, which they explicitly state is outside the public sector, is called by the genius author of the legislation - because it is certain that the ministers who subscribe to it do not know it legally - as a non-transaction! Have you seen a stock in your life out of transaction, tell me to find out a little bit? Because when I finished law school, at any rate, we were asked something like that. So you're telling me how the stock is off-transaction? And even making the beetle even further away or the so-called legal intelligence, "untrading" calls the other shares in the TIAD, ETAD and so forth, when this is not mentioned in the laws. You're telling me those smart guys where you found them? Can you tell me, can we just count them here? But do you know what might happen? That at some point the stock can be seized and found the Greek State without the entire property, with the absolute property of the confiscated. And there's something else here. There's the general meeting that's got the stock. But in fact, if you read it, you know who has authority? The Supervisory Board. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I would like to use time from my dentistry. I need three minutes. Why? Because it is the supervisory board that is appointed by the Governing Council and the Supervisory Board that is able to amend the Statute. Thus, as a shareholder, the Greek State lacks the basic powers that the shareholder of any company would have. And here's the company that has the entire public property. The whole thing! Do you understand what's going on here? Is it possible to believe that in this trap you are the only smart people who saw it as an opportunity and all the others who have been stubbornly denying it for years, with enormous pressure, have been wrong? Don't you understand what we're in danger of? We have come to tell you, given Europe's friends, what are you doing? Are you entrusting the property of the country to a manifest check? And where is the accountability in Parliament? The Minister came and told us before - he even brought us this with a legislative improvement - here that he will come to Parliament. Do you want me to read you the legislative improvement? It is Parliament's information. There is no reason for this Parliament, nor for it to impose nor lay off. No reason. Where is national sovereignty, ladies and gentlemen? You're telling me to understand that? Can we finally get to know Greek here, why is this about the national interest? And if you need help in this, Mr President, we can stand by you. But take it back! And let's go back to the strangers to explain that we can't, with you, but take it back, for God's sake! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Has Mrs Bakoyannis, who is primarily a European politician, concluded to tell you that this is going to be within the limits of national treason? Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the cutter. This is where the cut was presented to us, Article 233 of the legislation, as in any case a common European tactic. There was 3% in the Maastricht Treaty, you know that. And why are you making such a fuss? A little too much has been said by the Minister, you of the Opposition? Should we tell you why we're making a fuss? Let's tell you. Because we believe Mr. Tsakalotus, that's why we're making a fuss. Do you want me to read to you what Mr Tsakalotos said in 2014 about the provision at the time that actually concerned the Maastricht Treaty? It says: "The introduction of rules increases the democratic legitimacy deficit, both at European and at domestic level". I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's what the Minister said in 2014 about a cut man who didn't have the automatic character he has. What's changed since then? Can you tell me? And since when is it a constitutional restriction in the form of an exceptional contribution, as defined by means, of the remuneration of civil servants under a Presidential Decree? Are you telling me that, too, please? What writing, Minister, is it written? Which book is written, and I ask you again. Because you have to answer. We will have a roll-call vote on this so that everyone here has an individual responsibility for these unbelievable things that are being done and voted on. Can you tell me where, by a presidential decree, you can impose on each civil servant or citizen, if you would like, an extraordinary levy on reductions in remuneration, by a presidential decree? And that is what you tell us in line with the Maastricht Treaty? Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, I really am sorry. And I'm so sorry. I repeat on behalf of the President of the New Democracy, our complete willingness to help and to explain, if you want our help, to the foreign partners that what you bring here is in many unacceptable. Let's explain it to them, too. Because we care about the national interest rather than the party interest. And if you're judging that somewhere you need our help in these unacceptable things that you bring after you get them back, I repeat that we will stand by you. I also tell you, and I tell you, by looking into you in the eyes, that, after what we see here, this is not a left-wing government. It's a government of calamity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u509	Thank you, Mr. Treasury. The Minister for Finance has asked for the floor for a minute, Mr Chakalotos. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u510	Will the Members speak, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u511	Mr. Lykoudis, you would notice that I spoke less than my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u512	I'm not talking about you. The whole process has turned out to be off the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u513	I'll only need a minute. In my speech I said that the government's decision, for the last 1%, was not to go into two - three major measures, namely to take electricity and water to 13% and 23%, but to go to many small measures. Mr. Dendias, who is always kind, was kind enough to tell us all these measures, which were the many - perhaps because you can't read them, I don't know why - which he read all about. I have one question: together we voted on the agreement, and the agreement says 1% of GDP, which we need to take in 2016, for implementation in 2016, 2017 and 2018. Can you tell us what you'd do? Because otherwise there's no point in talking. You said you agreed that we should get 1% and you haven't told us anything about what you were going to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u514	You rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u515	Second question, and I'll be done in thirty seconds. We remember the two of us here with the Prime Minister on the evening of July 12th to 13th, by 9 a.m., negotiating a fund that is not only in Luxembourg, not just for privatisations, being for investment and all the forces, New Democracy, PASOK, Potami, they said 'agreement and come back'. Don't you dare come back." What do you mean? What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u516	We didn't say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u517	What do you mean? To be in Luxembourg?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u518	We didn't say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u519	Have privatizations too?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u520	We said don't come back without a deal!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u521	Mr. Kegeroglu, and your chief said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u522	We said don't come back without a deal! That's what we told you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u523	So the question is: did we have to make this negotiation? Shouldn't it just be about privatization? Should it be for the investments? Should we have been doing seventeen hours or should we have come back with a deal whatever it is you used to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u524	Please, Mr. Vardalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u525	Ladies and gentlemen of the government and of the majority, the issue of the 'roadmap' for development is another issue that will not take you away. Be aware that the euphoria you are trying to create, the success story SYRIZA, you will find it in front of you because it is polluted and every man of the strife finds it daily. He will find it tragically next time, when he is called to pay the carpets, the insurance contributions, when he goes to the tax office, when he goes to buy the necessary goods. We, ladies and gentlemen, are not taught to say great words or say things that are not based. The truth is that at some point the Greek capitalist economy will be going through a development phase, even anemic. After all, that's why you're killing yourself with the other parties on the Euromono street. For example, what is the review made by the New Democracy, with a backdrop, to avoid misunderstanding? Generally it tells you that the management mix you follow is not going to bring growth. There is talk of capitalist development. For her, you both agree. For the management mixture on which the exit from the crisis will be supported and for capitalist development, all the fuss is made between you. You are struggling for who will ensure progress towards development with social cohesion and political stability. History with the roadmap and your festivals is trying to hide some other aspects, but very important to the people, for example, that the development that will come, whenever it comes, will not benefit the people, nor will it escape the sufferings you have all borne to them in the time of the crisis. This is the second reason and more important that your road map will not take you away. Not only that, but the recovery not only will not restore the level of life to the largest majority of the workers, but neither will the new measures planned at the expense of the people. All the measures you have taken will continue and you will also take other measures, with the argument, but now that growth needs to be maintained, that budgets are made clearer and that the economy maintains its competitiveness within the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u526	Please, be quiet. The speaker doesn't sound. Please leave those who want to leave. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u527	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and also for the excellent work he has put into it. Let workers see what is happening today in countries that have anemic growth like, for example, France, in countries that have no memos. Your ally, Olad, takes anti-corruption measures that raise the people. With what argument? To maintain the competitiveness of the French economy. However, ladies and gentlemen, these anti-grassroots measures will continue for another reason: Business groups will not stop demanding other measures, measures such as ensuring better conditions for both the financing by banks and the state to manage development programmes themselves, measures such as ensuring cheap energy coverage of their businesses, promoting restructuring in the labour market with a view to ensuring the competitiveness of capital, opening up new fields of action, that is, privatisation that will surely ensure profits. That is why industrialists consider it positive that today's bill has the partial support of counter-population. That is why they say that people need to understand - be careful - the painful but necessary solutions. Isn't that what you're supporting, gentlemen of SYRIZA, and you in here? You will tell me that 'industrials may ask, but that does not mean that we will meet all their demands'. Come on. Who will believe you, SYRIZA gentlemen, when you are gratified with BSE every day, with the partners, with the representatives of all the imperialist institutions, giving them assurances that they can secure their profits, but that they can also unequivocally pass the restructurings that the former have not been able to pass on? Therefore, not only will anti-grass laws be taken back, but the attack will continue unrelenting. Once again, with the tax measures you are preparing, you put your hand in the pocket of the people. Monthly you are robbing the incomes of people's families and giving them to the bankers, the industrialists and, overall, the capitalists, to maintain their profitability. These measures will accept "depressive fractures" employees, pensioners, small and medium-sized farmers and poor farmers. These measures, however, are necessary for the profitability of business groups! A lot has been heard about the automatic cutter in this Chamber. What do you do, in a few words, with him? You take all these anti-grass measures that you have taken together with the quartet and at the same time keep the door open for the next measures that will certainly come, with or without the cutter, if the people don't stop you, if they don't intervene decisively in the developments, if they don't put their seal on them. All of this is useful mainly to understand from the people's backgrounds that they cannot share the same objectives, the same concepts and struggles with capital, but need to fight, resist, counter, and counter, on the basis of their own modern needs, which in no way fit into the capitalist system, nor with crisis nor with growth. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President, and I shall conclude. This is because, at the present time, the JRC puts forward and supports individual demands that improve the working and living conditions of the working class, the working farm, the self-employed, the populace, the youth. The cost of these measures, however, means less profit for the business groups. That is why the JRC's proposals, such as the proposal for measures to relieve the people's family, the reintroduction of the thirteenth and thirteenth pensions, the thirteenth and fourteenth wages, do not even discuss them. The question, therefore, to conclude, for the workers and the people, is not to wait until the road map of SYRIZA or the New Democracy and PASOK is completed, when the capitalist development awaits from BSE to SYRIZA will come, but when the conditions will be established to open up the path of development for the people, which will aim to satisfy the labour, people's needs, the path of socialisation of monopolies, the release from the European Union and the unilateral removal of all debts, that is to say, the road proposed by the Communist Party of Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u528	Thank you. Mr. Lykoudis from Potami has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u529	Ladies and gentlemen, the storm is here and there. On the basis of the statements and political graces of the Ministers in the previous period, we expected Easter to come to the resurrection. Instead, the second heavy package of indirect taxes has come, which we all know are mainly affecting the poor and low incomes, even more burdening the poor family budgets. This is, in fact, the result of the tax latitude that the citizens will soon realize, calling on them to put a deep hand in their pockets when today's government once called for them not to pay. And really, right now, I can't help thinking about the 'abnormal' movements that have been calling us over the last time not to pay. Now where are they? Why have they put the tail under the legs? Why have they swallowed their tongues? Soon - you can be sure - these smiles that are still there - smaller and fewer, of course - will cease to exist for the government's colleagues. The government celebrates its failure - and I cannot understand why - by misleading once again in the chain of its illusions the citizens for the anticipated development, which it thinks will automatically come like a spring, like a trampoline. Citizens realise that the government has offered abundant and measurable land and water to close the infamous assessment, having gone further up its cost, because it should have been closed down from last October - November. It is only hard to gain political time and obviously power. The international monetary fund, which, depending on the stage of the negotiations when it is declared an enemy and when it is a friend of the country, is not naive. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens are aware and are now aware that any decisions taken on the debt - and I hope they are positive for our country - have nothing to do with any allegedly cruel negotiations. They will be decided in absentia, by other players, according to their own priorities, on terms and under the tombstone of the automatic budgetary adjustment mechanism on which the government has little control. The new taxes do not have - and they will naturally not have - any developmental impact. Any growth this year, even if there is one, will depend primarily on the yield of tourism and the borrowings expected to be collected. In any case, even if it reappears - I wish - a sign of positive economic growth, it will have a level which is much lower than that which existed two years ago, in 2014. The country, ladies and gentlemen, pays a heavy price - against your Ministers' statements - for a naive former Treasury minister, but obviously also for the Prime Minister who chose him within the vortex of his own illusions. The Members of the House, ladies and gentlemen, must explain to the citizens why you had to lose two valuable years. That's not all. Why did the banking sector have to be sold out with huge public losses? Why did tens of billions of deposits have to be lost and restrictions on the movement of funds that no one knows when they will be lifted? Why did you have to throw the country back into a vicious circle of overtaxation and recession? Why did you have to burden one society on the edge of the collapse with another 12.5 billion? Your tough negotiation cost the country EUR 86 billion, says the central banker, Mr. Yiannis Stournaras. Serious, responsible and specific answers will Stournara get? When? By who? In what way? You owe an explanation to the Greek people. In my opinion, however, you do not have a convincing answer. You are just looking for various alibis and building nonexistent enemies, because you do not have the courage either of self-criticism or of apologies to the Greek people. That is why you are collecting, ladies and gentlemen, today the political abhorrence of the citizens who have now found that your professions were nothing but ideologically ideological and sound utilization - not to say something worse, exploitation of expectations. Unfortunately, you have made memorial tombs of the memorials. The frustrating denial of your announcements and your obvious totalitarian behaviour, which at no level has anything to do with fundamentally left moral and political principles and values, are today aware of strong disapproval. The unwise and clandestine policies will pursue you everywhere and forever to remind you that arrogance, benignness and skill in political lies and political fraud have an end date. In February 2015 from this Step I had expressed my great concern - many of you know I'm honest - that the "First Left" at some point leads to "Never Left". A month ago, again, I said that, unfortunately, you will identify in society the failure of SYRIZA with a failure of the Left as an option. And that's historically unfair. I fear that these crises are confirmed. The new measures are sure that they will not improve the economic climate. On the other hand, they will continue to bleed incomes, increase poverty, affect consumption, encourage 'black' work and bring about new glowing performances in tax evasion, not just as our national sport - to which we can see - but as an emergency. It will become the only spiritual search rewarded, as kanes said. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not see in the horizon the beginning of a virtuous circle. The vicious circle and the deadlocks will continue as long as we do not have our own development and country relocation plan. It's not the memorials, it's the cause of the storm, it's the total lack of our own plan. The government doesn't make it. It does not have the political and ideological equipment to get the country out of the new deadlocks to which it itself has led and for which it itself bears sole responsibility. The ideas of this Left, unfortunately, have become obsolete for this and they fail. Ladies and gentlemen, without serious and progressive intervention, structural changes and reforms everywhere, with the institutions of another left and a new, renewed and serious centre-right, of course - I say it and I support it - large national consensus and consensus, the country will not succeed. That is why I believe that the country has never had a greater need than that, since the great, democratic and reformist party was formed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u530	Thank you for the time, Mr Lykoudi. Mr Cassidyris, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, now has the floor. Mr. Cassidy, you have 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u531	I shall begin with the amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party - Golden Dawn - as far as possible - of the injustices provided for in this anti-national legislation. I will, of course, begin with a huge injustice, with a huge challenge to the detriment of the Greek citizens, against the lower economic strata of Greek society, against people who are literally dying in the unquestionable and who have caused a provocative SYRIZA MP, saying 'forgetarians'. I am referring, of course, to these elderly fellow citizens to whom you are abolishing the ECHR. The People's Association - Golden Dawn, therefore, through its Members, is tabling an amendment concerning those social strata which are affected, the low social strata, the micro-enterprises and the low pensioners, for the protection of the CSCE, for the protection of social security. Let us not forget that the principle of social security in Greece, the establishment of the Social Security Foundation and a huge range of benefits to the Greek worker became on a national status, the national governor of Ioannis Metaxas, who had said the great "OFF" to foreign invaders. The Golden Dawn is therefore tabling an amendment to hit the measures affecting about three hundred and seventy thousand low pensioners, who will be in a negative economic position since the implementation of the SYRIZA and ANEL policy, which is a continuation of the PASOK and the New Democracy policy. For us, it is a matter of the highest priority that the repeal of Article 92 of L.4387/2016, with the addition of an article in this draft law that seeks and requires the repeal of this article. So I am tabling this amendment. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Cassidyris, presents for the minutes the above amendment, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am now going to the second, just as important, amendment that the People's Association - Golden Dawn reintroduces and relates to a huge injustice of the tax system that has been applied over all these years of the memorandum from all the Memorandum years, from all the post-government governments, I would say, an injustice that we have documented with documentary evidence which I have calculated through the TAXISnet. Here, then, is the submission of a tax declaration for 2016 by a Member. It is very important for the Greek citizens who are attending this session to see this. These are elements that Golden Dawn brings to light. As you know, until the Golden Dawn enters the House it was unknown even the amount of parliamentary compensation. Today, the duty to which the Member enjoys is unknown, along with a number of other prerogatives, other provocative privileges, at the expense of Greek society. The Member, therefore, for the money he collects from the House, is taxed at EUR 10,000 a year, with EUR 10,035,96, in fact, from the application of the TAXISnet. In the same application a free professional, who has exactly the same income with a MP - that, of course, is something unprecedented, seldom the free professionals have such high incomes, the free professionals in Greece of the memorandum are closing their business, putting a bundle on their business, so that there is an exception to this rule - a farmer, a farmer, who receives exactly the same money he receives annually and a Member of Parliament, while the MP pays 10,000 euros tax will be called on to pay EUR 42.336,40. The tax paid by a free professional is 423% higher than that paid by a Member of Parliament. It is completely irreversible, unjust and inadmissible of your policy! I'm filing the particulars from TAXISnet. It's beyond question. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Kasidiaris, presents for the minutes the above figures, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The President-in-Office in the committee responsible for the legislation being discussed today had said that you had abolished the dutyfree tax on Members. On substance, you did not abolish the Members' tax exemption when the citizen pays a tax of 432% more than the Member. In order for Members to be tax-free in practice, it is enough to vote for all Parliament's wings tomorrow that we vote in favour of the amendment tabled by the People's Association - Golden Dawn, which says that the Member should also be taxed from the first euro, whether we are talking about wages or compensation. Say it as you wish. These are cheap tricks, which, of course, do not work because we are here to reveal all these injustices and all these unacceptable situations. The amendment, therefore, reads as follows: 'Legal compensation and all benefits to Members of Parliament are taxed from the first euro and Members are not given any special treatment in relation to other citizens'. Vote on this amendment to prove that we unfairly denounce you as institutions an unacceptable, anti-national and anti-popular policy. Rector, of course, my argument! [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Cassidyris, presents for the minutes this amendment - addendum, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To go now to the essence of this bill. The core of the colonialism of Greece, which, by the establishment of the Greek state, is implemented in this country and does not allow our country to be an independent state, but to be on the ground a sad protectorate of foreign forces, seems to be clear today with the new memorandum, the fourth Memorandum, the second Memorandum of Left, which invites its Members to vote for the creation of a new supranationalisations, which overall binds Greece's wealth, the national wealth. When we talk about national wealth, everything has now been destroyed. Everything has now passed into foreign hands, from water and EYDAP, for which they are already claiming as tomorrow's buyers of Turks and Israelis. The water that Greek citizens will drink belongs to foreign hands, this is the best way to control a country. From the water we go to electricity and PPC and from there to all the sources of energy, especially to the hydrocarbons that represent the highest demand, what the foreign loan sharks have been struggling for from Greece for years through the acquisition of Greek oil companies, ELPEs, as well as the PPC and IPPC. Petroleum and natural gas, i.e. Greek hydrocarbons officially pass into foreign hands. All of what I'm saying is not my own thoughts. Greece has an mineral wealth, which could become the basis for the development of the Greek economy. Because growth can only be based on the primary sector and not on green growth and green horses and all that nonsense we hear from the days of the unspeakable memory of Jeffrey Papandreou. Deutsche Bank's German loan sharks have cost a special study to investigate the gas deposits south of Crete at EUR 420 billion for the Greek State. The same is said in very serious Greek university professors, Mr. Zelidis from Patras, Mr. Foskolos, teachers who are accepted in an international forum. But you never invited them here to the House to tell these truths. The Russians had made an over-advantage offer to buy the TEC. This market, however, blocked by intervention from the Commission, because if the Russian factor were to enter into Greek things, if Greece, in other words, made a geopolitical shift towards Russia - what the People's Association - Golden Dawn - then we would create a new, completely different geostrategic treaty, completely different geopolitical balances in the Eastern Mediterranean and Greece, which has the backgrounds to be the dominant power in the Eastern Mediterranean, could exploit its wealth. But then there was no sale of the IPCC to the Russians, to GAZPROM, and it is now, through this sincerely anti-national legislation, to the Azeri of 'SOCAR', that is to say, a Turkish satellite, at the command of the United States of America. You were celebrating for the TAP pipeline. The TAP pipeline does not bring any revenue to the Greek economy at all. Some ten million, I think. Nothing! As much as parliamentary cars are costing. You celebrated the creation of this pipeline a few months ago and said 'no, it is a slave policy to the United States, especially through the Greek territory'. There had once been a great deal of noise for the infamous Tower - Alexandroupolis pipeline, which was never acted because of American intervention, as was never done by any defensive agreement with the Russians other than S-300, who rot in Crete. The Russians, however, when it was intended for Greece to buy out - in an agreement that was finally cancelled - the BMP vehicles - 3 had proposed that we "pay part of the cost of these vehicles to agricultural products". That would be a solution to the Greek economy. We should veto the Europeans' embargo towards Russia and then open up the Russian market for Greek products and thousands of Greek families, thousands of Greek producers who are dying today to make jobs and new Greeks turn towards the agricultural sector and finally have a regeneration of primary production, because only through primary production can Greece stand on its feet. However, what primary production are we talking about when with this legislation all the structures of Greece, the ports of the country are sold? After Piraeus Port, the largest port with the enormous potential for growth and for offering to increase the Gross National Product of Greece sold to the Chinese is now sold the Port Authority of Thessaloniki. Dozens of tourist ports and marinas throughout the country - we will see in Chios, Samos, the islands targeted by the Turks - will buy Turkish businessmen, not even have to make war for us to take national territory. The same goes for transport networks. ‘TRAINOSE’ and ‘ENGINATIC WATER’ are to be sold, given free of charge to foreign loan sharks. The same is true of the fourteen airports that New Democracy sold to 'FRAPORT', the German company, and which currently puts the final signature on this shameful agreement. There are another twenty-three airports ready to sell all the national wealth of Greece to foreigners. Foreigners therefore control power, communications, water, ports, airports, transport, roads, energy, natural gas and oil. They'll control land, Olympic properties. Where investment should be made, as in Greek, you have put in illegal immigrants, you have degraded this place, and now you will sell it for free. We must also go, of course, to the Financial Stability Fund that controls the banks' shares, which 100% of the banks' shares, i.e. the Greek banking system will be permanently in foreign hands and Greece will be finally changed to an economic protectorate of foreign forces seeking our economic extinction. I'm going to close with the notorious 3.6 billion euro cutter. There was a fuss in this Chamber this morning because I talked about public life pimps, who are excluded from the notorious cutter, and that is the truth. But the Armed Forces of Greece are not excluded. There seems to be hatred against the Armed Forces of Greece, which is why the most famous freezing of increases in special wages is to hit the uniforms. So do you want a proposal - to close with it - so that there is no cutter? The measures of the cutter are EUR 3.6 billion. How can this amount be replaced? I asked the relevant Ministry a timely question: How much food and housing and other benefits have cost illegal immigrants for 2015. They answered me like this: Over 1.8 billion euros only for 2015. Put it in 2016 and you have the cutter's money. If we get rid of illegal immigrants, the country is rid of the cut. These, however, only a national government of the Golden Dawn can do them and rescue the Greek nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u532	Mr. Lazarides has the floor from the Independent Greeks for seven minutes. Come on, Mr. Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u533	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again this government is called upon to correct and heal the deep wounds left by the two parties, PASOK and New Democracy, with their miserable policies. They received the country with unemployment at 9% and delivered it with the 27% astronomical rate. With an unemployment rate of 27% no insurance system can stand. Two hundred and fifty thousand businesses have been closed, even cynically blaming the commercial world as counterproductive. They made sure, of course, that they hand over trade to foreigners, with all kinds of facilities. We filled out commercial centers of foreign interests, while, on the other hand, the Greek shops were closed down. The city centers filled with downrooted rolls and sometimes commercial streets turned into ghost streets. Two hundred and forty schools are closed. On top of Thessaloniki, wanting to - says - to exalt the health area, they closed down the "PANAGIA" Hospital, which had the lowest cost per patient exile. Also, they accounted for three beds per bathroom, which was available to a patient, because this hospital was built with building permit for a hospital. In place they kept an open hospital, which accounts for twenty - eight beds per bathroom and twice the cost per discharge. They have brought the shameful measure of restraint in order to terrorise citizens in every way. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, you have turned Greek police officers from guards and protectors of the citizens and their security into "channels". You gave orders to the police and they stopped on their way citizens and were allegedly controlling them for diplomas, etc. In fact, the PIA policemen - and it was not the children's fault, no one blames the policemen, are the orders that you were giving, in order to keep under constant pressure to the citizens - they stopped on their way and they were not in control of them, and they have any calls for unpaid or anything else. The citizens ended up in detention, either for a call or for a debt to the insurance funds, and it is well known that 50% of the citizens had a debt to the insurance funds. In fact, I personally witnessed an incident where father was arrested for unpaid traffic call and was handcuffed to the department, despite the crying of his children who were shocked and his wife's beggings. I was once stopped three times in one day. You realize, when these two parties were running, swinging the finger on this government, how free the citizen felt. You are also cynically urging citizens to sell their homes to pay the taxes you have put in, since of course you have made sure that there are no buyers for these houses, i.e. you are entangled by the citizens. The middle class you're talking about now, you guys got her into it. The middle class, in fact, doesn't exist today. You brought society into total despair. The complexes, the endless social grocery stores are the tragic results of your policy. One third of the citizens brought it under the poverty line. This government found a country that, as the foreigners described, only with a country that just came out of war could be compared. This is a designation that is not made by journalists or by certain specific experts, friends who are committed to this government. However, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government managed to reduce your commitments to achieve very high budgetary surpluses, which under no circumstances could be done without any additional tax measures. I read to you some paintings and I testify to them. The new agreement on the budgetary objectives of the Government has the effect of EUR 20 billion of less measures than had been agreed with the governments of New Democracy - PASOK. In particular, I will tell you that, for 2015, the New Democracy - PASOK government had agreed, committed itself to a primary surplus of 3% of GDP, while the SYRIZA - ANEL government managed to bring it down and to ensure the possibility of a deficit of 0.25% of GDP. For 2016, the New Democracy-PASOK coup d'état committed itself to a primary surplus of 4.2% on GDP. SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence brought it down to 0.5% of GDP. For 2017, the New Democracy - PASOK governance was committed to 4.5% of GDP. Similarly, the SYRIZA-ANEL governance for 1.5% of GDP, the difference is in 1/3. For 2018, the New Democracy-PASOK governance was committed to 4.5% of GDP primary surplus, while the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence for 3.5%. In fact, despite the fact that this government ensured a less surplus of 1%, Yiannis Stournaras came out a few days ago and said that he had to come down further and go to 2%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Madam President, for a few seconds. This difference in the current government means 20 billion. If, in other words, these agreements were left with the New Democracy - PASOK, further budgetary adjustment measures of 20 billion would have to be imposed. Additional measures of 20 billion should be taken! Let's see a little about their effectiveness. In 2014 - for which they say they were effective - the aim of the second memorandum was 1.5%. The IMF forecast was 1.5%. The final result, the so-called success story, was 0.3%. That means they fell out by 80% of their targets. They're the ones who move the finger to today's government. For 2015, the objective of the current agreement was for a deficit of 0,25%. The IMF forecast for the deficit was 0.60%. The SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence, however, managed to achieve a positive result, a surplus of 0.7%, and to disprove forecasts. I'm giving you these two paintings. [[At this point, the Member, George Lazarides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I will also present another table with the cost of measures in the first and second Memorandums for the period 2010-2014 and the corresponding cost of the current agreement for 2015 to 2018 and at the same time some data on the performance of SYRIZA - ANEL. First of all, for the first and second memoranda 63 billion measures were imposed against the Greek people. For the period 2015-2018, the measures taken by SYRIZA - ANEL are 5.4 billion. Make the comparison and you will draw your conclusions on who they are who apply tax lotus to the detriment of the Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u534	Mr. Lazaridis, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u535	Just a minute, Madam President. Thank you for your tolerance. As regards the effectiveness, firstly, of the NRP, by the current government, at 98%. The highest percentage in Europe. Tourist arrivals of twenty-six million, 18% increase. For 2015, sixteen thousand new jobs. Tax revenues 1.2 billion from the one hundred instalment adjustment. Additional revenues of 1 billion from the treatment of tax evasion and stabilization of wages, pensions, increased internal demand. These are ELSTAT's results. I shall conclude, Madam President. I'm accelerating my position. This government is trying to correct the mistakes of the five years of previous governments, and it will certainly succeed, because it has already begun to show light at the bottom of the tunnel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u536	I would ask that we manage the time properly, because there are too many Members. Mr Katsiantonis from the Centroon Union has the floor for seven minutes. Think soon we'll go in five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u537	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to study and understand, as far as possible, the multi-brand vote, on its first page, my eyes literally fall on the axe which is heavy on the pensioners, on the workers, on the unemployed and on the multi-purpose, and while everything is stagnant, on the one hand, with the government staff saying that it will be one or two years to see whether we can reduce taxes, on the other hand, on the other hand, that they will immediately start to reduce the state's spending. In the end, however, we see that growth comes with the creation of new services of dubious utility. The bill on the one hand provides for tax-paying measures for the Greek taxpayer, it brings the arbitrary assignment for almost nine nine years of almost all the property of the country and freezes every wage-free right of workers. On the other hand, it brings new principles, new addresses, new secretaries, special and general, new coordinating committees and everything else fits into phrases which only state their promise and the creation of new jobs. But would anyone ask, do new jobs mean no extra costs in the already seen state budget? It goes without saying, of course, that the answer from the very content of the multi-brand plan which tells us, not least, that due to the lack of public money, we must, in accordance with Articles 52 to 55, do the following, and I will refer to a few examples: to increase VAT from 23% to 24%, to tax on hotel accommodation, to impose a 10% tax on pay-TV, to 5% on internet and fixed telephony, to increase all taxes, for example, on coffee, tobacco, drinking and much more. Let us begin, without end, the privatization of a number of state enterprises which provide social goods which are protected by constitutional law, such as electricity, water, postal service and sport. Whilst all this is happening and while the government has still to derive from time to time the same available hospitals, state institutions, etc., in order to cover the basic expenses of payroll and general costs of the state machine, there seems to be money here. How else can it explain how an army of young employees will be paid for waiting by voting on the bill to join the public machines? In order not to be far away, I would like to quote the new jobs and the new structures for which I have actually read the multi-brand plan, I have been afflicted only too much to understand the feasibility of their creation and I honestly still do not find a social and budgetary basis for their creation. The new structures to be set up are: the establishment of an Independent Public Revenue Authority, which will also have a special wage scheme and bonuses for achieving the objectives set. Establishment of a Governmental Board for the Management of Private Debts and a Special Secretariat for the Management of Private Debts. Establishment of Information and Support Centres for Lending. Establishment of an Independent Authority under the name ‘Storage Regulatory Authority’ and the establishment of a Public Port Authority. Establishment of a Digital Policy General Secretariat and a provision for various administrative secretaries, Deputy Administrative Secretaries, Sectoral Secretaries and Special Sectoral Secretaries. Only the "Writers and the Pharisees" are missing from this bill! If we sum up all the positions that the government has indirectly put forward, we have a final figure of more than three hundred, with a cost of millions of euros. I will refer to a specific example: Within the bill there is the appointment of fifty-two favoured people with an average salary of EUR 2 000 per month for the planning of the state's electronic interface. This has an overall cost of around EUR 1.5 million annually. As if this were not enough, from the promise of abolishing the ENPIA, we reached its increase. Really, when did growth rely on tax raids or job inventions of dubious utility? The only thing for which their prediction precedes, only a promise of a voting period, is to show. But it is regrettable that public enterprises managed by social goods are privatised by being privatised, by circumventing one night and by concealing inconveniences such as the "B", whose fate is still ignored, constitutionally guaranteed rights and by ignoring all decisions of the Council of State which have decided on the contrary. It was not enough for the government and creditors to use the two so-called funds to exploit national wealth, now commit social goods such as sport, water, electricity and postal services. All of this in favour of the great business interests, of course by creating new costs and destroying employment rights, since no provision is made for protecting existing staff. The country's largest architectural sports centre, the Olympic Stadium, which is directly interconnected with our younger cultural heritage and is mainly handed over by the sporting lung in breach of Article 16 of the Constitution. The fate of the EAEC and the Antidopting Laboratory is also completely ignored, especially in the light of Olympic preparations. Then we want to have the courage to look at our fellow citizens in the eyes! I, be sure, gentlemen of the government, will have this courage to look at them in the eyes, I will just have the same anger with them for you who condemn us to life poverty! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u538	Thank you, Mr Katsiantonis, and respect for the time. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u539	I would start with a reference to Mr Tsakalotou's speech, which I hope he sees or comes along. I'll keep her for the rest. It is important for workers and the people's layers that they should not be entangled in this - known from the old but with new versions - an intensified controversy made by the Memorandum partners. You are all partners in the three Memorandums, which you have all voted together on the Euro-Room, the European Union - as we say - and the capitalist development path. No one, except for the JRC, questions this road directly and in practice, not in words and in books. This way leads to despair for the people, despite the existential differences between the parties. We do not claim that all parties are the same, they have differences, smaller or larger, but they have the same strategic choice and they serve the same strategic choice. It was clear to us and we had described precisely what would happen: either with one or with the other government, a third memorandum will come and the same path of development will be followed. Are we too wise? Oh, no. Today we are not at the stage of the description. Today, the reality itself confirms what the JRC has said openly, with the truth of the people and - I will say that - we have also paid electorally. But today comes the reality of telling who's right. What is the common strategy? Firstly, how the needs of business groups, capital, which is considered to be the engine of economic growth, will be realised. They produce wealth, millions and not the workers. They will bring back growth, the ones who have the unstoppable profits here and out. Where did they go? Are they gone? Did you get anything? This way, then, you want to serve both the government and, of course, the New Democracy and PASOK are known. Secondly, how will European Union policy be implemented, which is what? Classical confrontation or the dictatorship of monopolies? To say it in a tough language.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u540	First one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u541	First one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u542	It is the dictatorship of monopolies at European level, and today despite brain washing, the last worker is aware of how much value all of you have had for the European Union, which would bring prosperity and would be the country's stable and ally. The blood drank us. In difficult times, the latter drank us, precisely because it is the dictatorship of the monopolies. Of course, in order for this development to come to an end and the cycle to be closed, a barbaric policy is needed, which the current government continues where the previous government stopped. On the same tracks on the train, Minister, and on the same destination you go. You're not jumping off the train. You go full. I'll say below for that. So what's the controversy? Who will manage better and who will implement this anti-population policy. Unless you think it's philosophical, that's all we didn't hear. The fight begins, which has the following element: New Democracy and PASOK: 'We have saved the country'. Which country did you save? You have destroyed the workers and the small and medium-sized strata and saved the capital. That's what you've done all these years. Let it go. You've saved the country. We were ready to go out to development and within eighteen months, how much that perspective is, was destroyed. The model of postmulsion collapsed and I say it again, when they say that the model of postmulsion collapsed, they mean any small conquests the workers had. That's what they had on the mark and they said it on all the tones. That makes sense. And they say it sincerely in the New Democracy. What does SYRIZA say on the other hand? 'We have received chaos'. Really, didn't you know what you received? You didn't know? Didn't you know the connections in the European Union? 'The hope is coming, Europe is changing'. The worst of all is that even today you say it changes, when more barbaric measures come, which will have no stop, because the crisis is deep and because capital wants everything anymore. It says the government: 'we will get the country out of the crisis with a social mark or a fingerprint'. We have new expressions. 'We have fought hard, which has reached a compromise'. Excuse me, is that a compromise? Both memorials apply, which you said as you said, and that's what we talked about. Bringing a third worse, and in terms of measures...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u543	Mr. Karathanasopoulos...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u544	Don't be in a hurry. From the point of view of measures and the fact that they are added to the previous measures. Did you remove anyone? Oh, no. So what do we got? We've got aggregation. Is the people's life better with the third memorandum? Don't let us all go crazy in here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u545	Were people fired?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u546	No, it's not getting any better. You're very smart and very read. It didn't result in a compromise. So we say that the course was set. The previous ones and yours, the current government and independently of intentions. But, you know, don't say the classic: the way to hell is stranded with the best intentions. Regardless, I say, from intentions, why you serve a system that has laws and we cannot imagine that most - not to say the vast majority of SYRIZA's leadership - does not know that, the iron laws of capitalism, the laws of law, as we say and say, Marxists and those who want to be called Marxists. One of these basics, not to do theoretical analyses, is the crisis of capitalism. You don't know that? Plus, you said it was a stock exchange bubble, gambling, ribbons, best man, and everything else. You don't know the classic? Just economic policy lessons, that the crisis is inherent to capitalism itself? Didn't you say all this? That it's coming from over-accumulating funds and profits? Don't you know how the crisis in capitalism is overcome? You don't even read history? You know them very well. You know it very well. Do you not know that the major crises - capitalism and the others, I have no time to analyse them - have been overcome by two wars? You knew them very well. Didn't you know that the crisis is becoming a disaster of productive powers? Don't you know there's been a disaster and, first of all, a fall in the price of the labour force? Destroying funds? Are small and medium-sized, even colossal? Aren't you aware that these come to create the conditions afterward for the capitalist recovery, that is to make paradise to reinvest the pond and the other capital? So, you don't know that they want cheap labour power, broken working relationships, reduced social costs, privatizations, the robbery of workers, to raise money and finance business groups, so that the capitalist machine and the machine of the capitalist economy, as it is said, can also go back to investment, create all these fairy tales? Don't you know all this? So we ask this: is this not what New Democracy and PASOK did as genuine parties in the bourgeoisie? With the capitalist development path and the memoranda, which were concentrated measures and we have said it a hundred times, it has applied precisely this policy that I described earlier, namely what capitalism wants to overcome the crisis. That's what they did, isn't it? So do you come along and continue on the same road? Yes or no? Because today we have heard the abundant theorem: Socialist capitalism. That's what Mr. Chakalotos said. We serve wild capitalism to bring socialism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u547	Or else I must have said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u548	Okay. I interpret it like that. What can we do now? You say a lot differently, and you have the advantage of each other going out and saying one of his own, and at the end you're all okay. That's what you actually said. On this road, don't you go on? What exactly is the third memorandum and the laws you bring? Is the way to socialism open? Don't drive us crazy in the end! Does this serve the third memorial along with the other two that is their continuity? I would like to say one more thing. That is why others voted and let the story be left the European Union if they did not vote for the memorandum. They voted for it because it serves the interests of capital. That is why they voted. Secondly, it relates to the first, that the European Union ensures it in another way. It was an option for the bourgeoisie, and now they're pretending to be those who didn't know what they were voting for and that they didn't know what to follow. I'll tell you later. I love that we're intriguing. What is the law serving - a glutton for the integration of social security? Does it not serve the demands of capital from the beginning of the 1990s, to end this and to go to private insurance and to have a poorhouse and crumbs for the workers? Isn't that what you did with the bill? What is tax, tax, before and now tax? He takes from the many, literally breaks them, and he gives the few. Don't bring me the fig sheet, the exceptions for real estate and everything you say. What does the plan do, so that we can finally see what development path the government is serving? It forms a more favourable environment, more favourable conditions for the action of business groups. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will also have my second language to finish. How does he do that? By crushing the populace layers with wild taxation, first of all it was the direct one, now it is the indirect plus all the rest - I do not say it again now because it is tiring now that this machine gun is called for the measures, which are infinitely and without stopping - and by ostracizing the self-employed, the poor farmers, the small and medium-sized ones, unless this is how you prepare with the destruction of the passionate order to go to socialism from there. Unless you have a secret plan and you don't tell us. But that's a wild capitalism. You are making, among other things - I do not want to say it - the Fund for the exploitation, as you say, of the entire public property for ninety-nine years. Indeed - this goes beyond any imagination - the New Democracy says - that you are committing the next governments. Let him go out and say he's going to abolish it. Let's get out here and tell New Democracy and PASOK that they'll abolish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u549	We, as soon as we get out, will abolish it. As long as we get out. Well, you'll get used to it. You've said a lot more. Not one share in private, you were talking about OTE. I'll get you the tape. It will now be easy for you in the opposition. You copy each other. I say, therefore, that you do not commit the governments, Mr Stathakis and Mr Tsakalotos. You're unlocking their hands. They'll light you candles, lamps, and they'll make you a statue. Of course, all this if other governments come and if the people do not come to the fore to take power. Because you don't commit us. When the people decide to take power in their hands, they will be abolished by all these agreements. He's got a different purpose now, he says. What's the other purpose? 50% will be for the debt. So who's gonna pay? Of what you are going to sell, you will give 50% of the debt and 50% of the investment support. What will the people get from them? Nothing. 50% to go to investment, in what forms? Because we have also heard of something'social economies'. Are you serious? With the commander of a hunch from the European Union and a majority required by 4-1 will you go through philosophical measures? Who are you kidding? Will they leave you? Unless they also became crows, slobs, and toddlers. How do you mean? What are the ways? Privatisation - all forms say - sale of assets, Public and Private Partnership, concession. That's ninety-nine years? Enrolment of a strategic investor? Who do all this serve? Where is the worker here? Where is he protected? Where's he going to get something? Nothing. All for investors, for large capital, for monopolies. As for what happens with this county, we have a sample already. What's the sample? It's the contract for the fourteen airports. In fact, for scandalous Law 2687/1953, Mr. Stathakis has also written a book. "National" you call him in the book. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u551	So now you are also coming with a colonial law - it is not exactly colonial, but to accept it for the sake of the debate - you are providing full protection and scandalous privileges for foreign businesses to the point where you cannot in crisis, only in war, use the airports - and even in war you must compensate them. With this law, that's how you're going. He prescribes what will happen with the fund as a whole. So to close the cycle, you anticipate privileges and tax exemptions for capital. Shall I list them? Karathanasopoulos said it and other speakers said it. You give it all you want. On the other hand, taxes, miserable life for people's layers, cutter for the people, extortion of the people that "split the head, or the cutter will come, they will come the worst". But an exception to all of them! Hey, what's the matter with poor people? They've been out in Omonia now and they're singing to pick up some francs with the 200-300 billion euros abroad and how many others they have elsewhere, apart from the unstoppable property. They're the ones with an exception! Come on, invest and we'll give it all up. So we ask what you are doing differently than serving the capitalist system and even in wild conditions - it is not in the conditions of its development - at other times and with another association of powers. Do you do anything different? Of course not. They pay for the crisis, and they pay for the development, from which they will not get any crumbs or crumbs. So we have the new version, as I said: 'Socialist capitalism', that is, we serve capitalism, we save it - the wildest capitalism - so that we can then go to socialism. This is called the circle squared. We make agreements with companies and win them a lot and win the social whole, and then you say you're marxists too. Um, it can't be! We're gaining from goodwill. Where are we from? In fact, you're doing all this with the lenders. It's amazing. With all those who say that you have conflicted, you have complained and complained - in words - that you will also manage the fund with all of them. Can't you give a tax exemption to a company, you're now working in here and you all the others that you're going to make a philosophical policy? A euro cannot be granted. Did you blame the C.E.R.D.? Is there nothing? Isn't there an honorable one? How many millions do you save, Minister? How many millions? A hundred, two hundred? What's this? A minimum profit of a shipowner - these are - one year. Look at the balance sheets. Are you going to break the poor people and tell us here now that we're going to open the road with social economies and all these fairy tales? So to finish, you have now made a choice, just like everyone else. Your fight is who will have the upper hand now. And because you're yelling too and you've put your mark on it - I'll say about the New Democracy - and the rest of you, you've made two choices in propaganda. One is this notorious fund. Why are you shouting? To make people's property all this public property? Oh, no. Because a part of the bourgeois class sees the shark coming. The shark eats all the fish except one. One is called an oath for everyone they know. It's a kind of whale that hits the shark. Because, then, a part of the bourgeois class sees it being crushed by the magnificence, so you come out on the tiles and you say now that they also come out on the tiles. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. So the oath that eats the shark is one, it's the people, it's us. She can crush those majestics. So you - a good journey - cannot wish on the road to capitalist development, namely social injustice, poverty for the people and new profits for the big capital, and we along with the people on the path of overthrowing. Because eventually and historically earlier, but today, it turns out that social systems are neither changed by means nor by islands, but are overthrown by popular struggle, by social revolutions. We're going on this road. Congratulations on your choice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u552	The Minister has asked for two minutes to speak. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u553	Mr. Paphie, I have heard all that you have said about the ironic laws of capital. I don't know what the level in the Marxist Schools is right now, but I'm very afraid you're teaching the first volume of capital and the second volume of capital, but you're stopping there. Because if you went to the third volume, Marx writes that there are indeed iron laws in an abstract model, but these laws exist to mediate class struggle - in the third chapter. So laws do not exist in this way. That's what the third chapter says. Mrs. Papagiga was kind enough to say good words about Mr. Stathakis' work and mine, that it is assembled. I hope you have read that my own company in the 1980s, which is in this book - in the books I have written - is about the failure of the national roads to socialism, the PASOK, the working party in the 1970s, of the French communist party along with the socialist party in the 1980s. Seems like there's no iron law...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u554	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u555	Mr Kegeroglu, you have nothing to add to such a debate. I don't think you need to intervene. I think it's beyond you. [[Noise in the Chamber]] There you will know that there is no ironic law, especially Marx and Engels, which says it is a privileged field for class struggle. There you will know that there is no privileged level at national level to deal with financial markets and multinationals. When you go to the national level, neither the financial markets nor the multinationals disappear. I think that we need to talk about this, and it is legal and correct. I only have one complaint from the Communist Party of Greece. That gives the impression that there is no hope. That in the midst of this capitalism that we are, we have to "sit on our eggs" to wait for better days. When there is the greatest crisis in capitalism since the '30s, we cannot'sitting on our eggs'. We have to see how you change relationships, how you change ideology, how you shape conditions for a better future, how you address the needs of the poor, how you can make the alternative to change this place. I forgive all of you, but that you create despair and you do not unite with people to have hope, no matter what I do not forgive it, it is very important that the people's movement will not forgive you. That right now, in the middle of the biggest capitalist crisis for sixty years, all you say is "do nothing, sit down until we see better days".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u556	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u557	Mr. Paphie, leave it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u558	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u559	It doesn't make any sense. You spoke eighteen minutes. I think they've understood the differences.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u560	Everyone has been given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u561	It's against the MPs. It's too late.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u562	You cannot give the floor. There is no parliamentary representative who will not take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u563	Answer what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u564	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u565	Political differences. Greece knows all of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u566	For these differences, let me say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u567	You've explained them eighteen minutes. I'll give you a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u568	Mr. Chakaloto, be more modest of what the Communist Party of Greece does. We didn't bow down to capitalist barbarism. You, not only worshipped her, but you are serving her. You dress in a marxist cloak, too. You're not gonna tell us we're doing anything. Because if it hadn't been for the Communist Party of Greece, it would have been a cemetery of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u569	I didn't say you were doing nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u570	He wouldn't move anything. Despite our mistakes and weaknesses, don't tell us that we don't give hope. We give the only hope. Hallucinations we don't create. We do not give hallucinogenic agents where you give what Europe would change and where you would rip the memos. And now you're coming to tell us we're not doing anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u571	I didn't say you were doing nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u572	Who's on the streets all the time? That's why you should be more modest. Secondly, the reference to the world revolution is the third presence. You're the ones who tell us about the second, I guess it's better, because we're talking about it right now. That the conditions are mature, just as long as the people decide. We are moving in this direction and not in the direction of subjection. And because you said too much about Marx, we're not going to do a Marxist analysis now. Read the review of the Gotta program again after the 30th page. Nothing else. Why did Marx say something: “What am I bringing? The new thing I bring is not the fight of classes. The new thing I bring is that in order to eliminate the classes, we must move to the dictatorship of the proletariat." Isn't that what it says? "It stands out for me," he says, "of all others." The rest with silencers
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u573	Mr. Gregorakos, Independent MEP, has the floor for seven minutes and then Mr. Papadopoulos. Then Mr. Carras will have the floor. I told you all to be ready and precise in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u574	Madam President, thank you. I will make sure that I am in my time, although the time has become a kiln one by all the speakers today. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been watching very carefully for too many hours because it was at 7 p.m. to speak. The time is 21.00, it's fine, Minister. I have followed you in your speech and followed all my colleagues. A little modesty from all of us. Our self-criticism is on our way. After all, the Greek people in the elections - both in the second and third elections - told us that something you did not do right. We, Mr Chakaloto, have tried and it is true that we have done a great deal, but we have not done much. That's why we're here today. PASOK, Mr. Chakalote, from 44% to 4.6%. Dear Minister, modestly. We have brains and eyes and we see, we have judgment and we remember the fake words of the great. By September you have room. In September, taxes and "buyourdi" will come to the Greek people. Dear friends and dear friends, with all due respect to your face, you are new MPs and I do not want you to go through what we have been through. Greece must change page, go to the next page. Whatever happened, it's done, but we all have to do it together. Minister, when the time has come, you have called on the political reformers, because until then you have not accepted anyone. So it's time, now. Let me remind you that when the colony and the state had a hard time, then we all thought about bringing the political reformers, but the political reformers, Minister, who you are leaving now - I think - had nothing to do but unnecessary and unnecessary. They only cut off the unnecessary, that is, the unnecessary what? Does the 'excessive' EPC, the 'excessive' coffee, the 'excessive' cigarette, the 'excessive' House - do not the House need, since we talked about it on television, do we need a parliament? - the "excessive" ASA, the "excessive" Intensive Treatment Units, the beds. That's what the reformers of the country's political life do. Do you not know that all of us here are very temporary and will be the time of the crisis for all of us? So let's keep a little low, because there's the media. There is the technology today that can take you out of the time you talk in this city, in this part, in that village and say "that's what Gregorakos said yesterday morning." A little modest, because every state with its mistakes and its imperfections is clearly better than these "reformers" we want to bring for Greece. You brought them the "reformers". You signed a hundred years for Greece, for our children, for our grandchildren and rather for our grandchildren. I have experience of blue oil, blue alcohol and matches. In 1978 Mitsotakis abolished them. Many of you may have the experience. Many of you, of course, are young. So even a state that is doomed to be lost, but we will strive for it not to be lost, it is better for this state to manage its own house than to put others in and put them in this way proud. You say you fought and you're glad. Why are you happy? Why did you do better than the previous government? Let's have a look at them. Sit down and let the tax come. Don't go too far. Why are you happy? Does education work better, does the economy work better, does health work better? What works better? The immigrant? I read recently the text of SYRIZA's founding declaration. "SYRIZA seeks to politically express the world of the Left, the world of work and the need for this world to become a leader of society." I ask now all SYRIZA's friends: have you ever told us that the country is being privatised, that the country is being sold? Did you tell us? I'm asking you a question. Is Mystras, Gythio and Monemvasia sold? Just answer me what the bill says. The 77,000 buildings are the House building, is Maximos? So please answer me for reading the bill so well. Everything is sold and we are all in a difficult position, because the whole political system has its responsibilities, because from you now that you're there, except 4% that didn't participate, 32% must have taken part in what you blame us for, if I'm not mistaken. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Madam President, your tolerance. And many of the SYRIZA Members who come today and say, "Where was I and what did I do?" to tell you where he was? It was at PASOK! General secretaries, MPs, ministers, hospital presidents, here and there. Okay, 4% wasn't. I can't say it. If you're all at 4%, hello! I'm taking my words back. But you're not. And some of them came out and weeped. Well, the one who cried and signed for the airports! Another went out yesterday and said: 'I am not speaking, but I shall vote'. Another came out on a channel yesterday with me: 'I would not vote for them, but in order for the others to come, I will vote on them'. Well, that makes sense. Do you know what we've taken in our own parliamentary groups in previous years? We didn't know if we were going to the House and we didn't know if we were getting out of the parliament, because there were people thinking inside. And not that you're not thinking. I don't accept that you're not thinking! And I do not respond to what your Member said yesterday: "I did not vote for one Memorandum, I did not vote for the other Memorandum, I dropped PASOK, I went to DIMAR, I went to SYRIZA, but now I don't see a solution." Is that the answer, Mr. Friend? Isn't that what he said yesterday? He said it. Ladies and gentlemen, no more delusion. We all know each other. In difficult times power charmed you. All of them are fascinated by authority. But this way! From the day before yesterday and today, from those benches everyone is missing. Nobody's stepping on. We don't know their positions. And you rule with them. We, when we ruled, with those governments that we did, which brought us to 4%, which dissolved DMAR, have always had concerns in the government. But we were not absent from these benches. He was talking about each of us and, of course, had the consequences of his actions. I would therefore like to say that your 'left' feelings think you have now cashed them with them. It's over today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u575	Signatures are recorded, not redeemed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u576	It's over! From September we will see how worthy they are. You go along with ANELs simply - they have merged, of course - because the cohesive substance is populism, nationalism and stateism. With your political transformations you seek to earn time to stay in the helm of the country. But you underestimate that, despite economic, social and political circumstances at the moment, the world does not forget, as we do, that this House cannot give another government. So, elections! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u577	Mr Papadopoulos has the floor and then Mr Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u578	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to deal with some specific articles that we have today for discussion here, such as Article 44, which sets rules on income tax for farmers - we will also need additional measures here, to help the smaller farmers, who are in a more difficult economic situation - and Article 65 relating to the definition of a professional farmer. These two articles were what the country's Prime Minister promised farmers and has acted by law. So, what we call it legislation. However, I would like to read the definition of a professional farmer, so that there is no misunderstanding and that farmers also hear it, just as it is: ‘A professional farmer is the adult natural person who has the right to register in the register of farmers and farms, provided that he has cumulatively met the following conditions: He holds a farm holding, is employed in agriculture by at least 30% of the total annual working time, receives from his employment in agricultural activity at least 50% of his total annual income, is insured himself and his farm in OGA-ELGA, where required in accordance with the legislation in force. keeps accounts in accordance with the legislation in force, etc..’; So what the Prime Minister promised has done to strengthen farmers. Third. When the tax measures were being discussed, you were all saying that farmers would be taxed 26% of the first euro. Here, from this Step all the opposition parties said so. None of this happened. So, you're lying again. You were lying again. What proved in practice? That they didn't have a tax of 26%, not even from the first euro. So we made a comprehensive tax policy with which for the first time the rural world has a tax-free. I was listening to you say here that everything that's throwing away the tax. Let's see the agricultural sector in the first place. It is not taxed ‘principality’. Do you know what "creaming" is? It's 30% of farmers' subsidies. There is no tax on related aid from farmers. You know they get too many such reinforcements. The second pillar is not taxed. We have to say some things. What is the second pillar that is not taxed? The second pillar that is not taxed is organic farming, organic livestock farming and organic farming. She's not taxed either. Fourth. There are other aids that we don't know well and you don't understand well. For example, there is nitrate pollution that is not taxed. There is the compensation that is in the mountainous regions. He's not going into the farmers' tax. There's in the semi-liquids the balancing compensation. He's not getting into the farmers' tax. There's the balancing compensation on the islands. He's not going into the farmers' tax. Where did you find this whole tax storm and you call it? So, in particular, SYRIZA has helped the tax-free shaped by each farmer. Another duty free is that the surpluses of cooperative organisations are not taxed. So, where did you see that throat against the farmers? To go to another matter. You're saying we're making a party state, a state of symbiote. Yesterday I said it was GREEN. The Minister answered. Aren't you going to tell me what happened with that "Greek" that you've been appointing a world of blanket blanket? Aren't you going to say anything about this story? Your "your children" put them when you were on your own directly. When you colluded your "your children" again, you shared them 5-3-1. Do you know what this reminds me of me as a farmer? Transparent fertilizer. Five is nitrogen. So it was New Democracy. There was a toast. The second element is phosphorus. What's the phosphorus doing? It's roots. That was the PASOK, rooted in the state mechanism he knew. The third element is potassium. What's potassium doing? It's quality. It was DMAR. You had lefters too. That's what you did. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'll go to the maps, too. In the forest maps, we put a class. We really put in the game and the little ones so they can get a job in this map story. Here, with the forest maps, the interests are getting hung up, so that's why this story came out. The rustler, here, said where they're talking about and what areas. Finally, we're going to put order on all these issues. Forty years no one's done anything. Nobody! Why didn't we have the maps?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u579	You've been through a lot! Forty years you have been starving for farmers!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u580	Why? Why didn't you do them? Cinnamon! So you can't stand the Republic. Cinnamon. So environmental protection for us is a dominant element and we must say this: Development at the expense of the environment, it cannot be right, it cannot have a future. Therefore, the growth that will come will be with respect for the environment and real growth. [[At this point, the debate bell is ringing again and again, the Member's speaking time bell is closed.]] Madam President, a little tolerant of you to close down. I guess I'm done. It disconnects me, Madam President, this bell. I did. Thank you. In any case, speaking as a farmer, I would like to say that we are also illustrating in this bill our sensitivity to the agricultural sector and that is why we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u581	Mr Karras, Parliamentary spokesman for the Union of Centres, and then Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis. Here, Mr. Carras, you have 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u582	Thank you, Your Honor. The amendment brought by the Ministry of Labour in relation to the retrospective retention of the payments made by the ESS from 1-1-2016, reminded me of a great injustice which is included in the same voted insurance bill and obliges me to point out to the Chamber, even if it is not the subject of this regulation, the great injustice committed to widows, those who are uninsured, those who supported their lives in their husband and who had the misfortune either in an accident in a building or in a automobile industry, and possibly have children. So, in the 55th year of age, the previous, the fifteen days of law, put in order to obtain the right to retire these unfortunate women. I am obliged, even though it is not our subject today, since I am given the opportunity to make a statement in this House, to express my justified indignation which holds me, to unite my voice with many and outside Ethiopia that raises this injustice and to ask even at the last moment, even if none of the relevant ministers are here now - forgive me, Mr Petropoulou, I thought it was not anyone - to call for at least this injustice to be restored, Minister. I mean the retirement of a widow not after the fifty-fifth year of age to go to the age of the unfortunate event of the loss of the husband, even if it does not complete the 55th year, since it does not have any other resources. I shall therefore proceed after that. I will say first of all about some of the amendments that exist in the bill, starting with an amendment that suspends any wage maturation and promotion of wages. It seems to be part of a wider context of cuts, cutbacks, materialism. But I heard an opinion this morning that, for a special category of special wages, there will be a restoration to this bill over the next few hours. If there is a restoration, that is to say, excluding the ban on ripening, I think that all the categories of special wages should be included in the exemption, of course, within the framework of the budgetary possibility. I have heard from the ANE that no, what I am saying or what I am going to say, because the Ministry of Defence decides that there will be no cut to them. I wish. I referred to the decision of the Council of State, which said for previous years that the cuts made were not lawful. Therefore, on the basis of this decision, we must look at the issue of these so-called 'ripe's', if there is an exception, for other wages too. You'll allow me to comment on how you legislate. In another amendment, which came to my hands earlier, I read that you are reintroducing a 1987 decree on land use and that the provisions of a new law of 2014, which regulated this issue, are being abolished, so that time can be given to study and issue new ones. I mean, then, that's very simple. It states that ‘Articles 4269/2014 are repealed and the provisions of the 1987 Decree on land use will be applied’. Do you know what's going on here? I've been saying this with an insistence many times. Since the provisions of 1987 have been abolished by express provision of law, they cannot be reinstated by reference. It will be a question of urban regulation. We have a recession, we have a shortage of investments in the building and construction industries. So what issue will it be? There will be no law that determines uses of land. Why am I saying that? They were repealed by the Law of 2014. It says today that the provisions of the 1987 Presidential Decree will be applied. I don't judge the arrangement if it's right or not. I say, however, that if you want to use land and not find it before you, you must publish those provisions that have been abolished and reintroduced in the Official Journal. So the law now. What does the law tell us? The law, therefore, if we try to codify it, tells us that it is new public services, it is the Independent Public Income Authority, it is another Independent Public Port Authority, at the same time, a Public Port Authority. I didn't understand that, because two of them overlapping services.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u583	It's not two. I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u584	Let me take my view, Mr. Famele. Do you want me to go on with it? You want me to tell you? So I see that one, the port regulatory authority, will also have a ratification responsibility to intervene in those contracts signed by the Greek State and the other, the port authority will again monitor the same contracts, since we say that ports will be privatised. We shall, therefore, have one principle on the one hand and the regulatory one on the other. I do not know what they will add. I also do not know what a new Digital Policy Special Secretariat will add. They have been spent, the European Union's money on digital convergence has been spent, services have been created, dozens have been given, if not hundreds of millions of the previous ESDP programme for digital convergence. Did this policy fail? If it failed, I expect to hear who the people responsible are, I expect to hear the criminal prosecutions so that the public's damage can be restored. That's not what's in there either. We will say, however, little about taxation. Fifteen days ago, we talked. Direct taxes have increased, income tax goes from 26% to 29% on small and medium-sized enterprises. Let us not give many examples, they are well known in the Chamber. Today comes an indirect tax raid, which is trying to cover, supposedly, deficits. And I would ask, where do these indirect taxes end up? Do they end up with the rich? But the rich, and if the indirect tax makes a difference, they'll cover it. Do they end up in mid-income? Yeah, it's affecting them. However, it particularly affects the incomes of small and medium-sized enterprises, the unemployed, those living under the limit of living. So what are we telling them? Cut down more to save money. Cut more to cover deficits. So what's gonna happen? As essential measures, we will now have further economic deterioration. Why? Because there will be no consumption anymore. The consumption will be nullified within the country. And what are we gonna ask for? We'll ask for loans for recycling loans, since the evaluation is supposed to close tomorrow. They're going to give us some money, which they won't go into the economy, but they're going to cover up debts - I don't remember the number - or 7 or 8 billion. They'll refinance the debt and we'll be fine. We talked about growth. I have heard many times that, after this law we are discussing today, a development law will come so that the economy can grow, take off. I don't want to be so exaggerated in my words. Let me ask you something: Does the state ensure that it participates, finances, subsidises a new development law? Don't tell me about the ESRB. Don't get me ahead of time and tell me about the NSA. We know about the ESDP, we know of its maliciousness, we know the difficulties and we know how it is channelled. But if we take up and make an account and a check of the previous period, by 2014, we will see a breakthrough, we will see straight through public money. Where are we going? There is a strong concern and anguish. We don't know where we're going right now, at least us. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Papadopoulos, you put it in your opinion, let me have mine, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u585	I didn't say anything. I'm talking to the competitor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u586	So let's go to government debt management. I said earlier that all this in the bill helps to increase the state-of-the-art. So I read: ‘Governance private debt management board’. Very good, we're doing services now not only for public debt, but also for private debt. We're making a government board, but we're also doing a special private debt management secretariat with addresses, departments. We will hire staff, transfer, extract, create very nice new services, and sectoral services, in fact, I am reading. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, you will allow me to use my dentistry as well. So I ask: what about the private debt management? What solutions will be given to the red loans? I'll tell you what it says about the information loans. Will the 140,000 objective value solution be given to households? So are we going to say that for two years we have been giving them a temporary suspension from auctions and have we solved a problem? No, gentlemen! A definitive solution must be given up to an objective value for first-seating families who cannot cope with this arrangement, because otherwise we will have the following phenomenon: it will be a little suspended. We won't pay. Debt will be charged, because in the two years that will leak through the suspension of auctions, banks will not stop discharging, banks will not stop imposing default clauses. And if they are transferred, though they will be increased after a certain period, so the amount will be increased or if they are not transferred at the end of the period - the law says they will not be temporarily transferred - a delayed debt of 500,000, 100,000 will be 80,000, will be 120,000 and will not be treated. Give me a solution if you want. The banks took the money. I've said it before. The banks took three recapitalisations. And when the banks took the recapitalisations, red loans were also counted. This could then have been resolved because they are taken into account in the safeguards, and that is why the recapitalisations took place. Let's go to the news loans. There, in the news loans it'll be the big party. What for? For these borrowers - and they are mainly micro-enterprises - who are aware and with some sacrifices they have managed not to risk, risks will be created. Because he's leaving a natural body, the bank, and he's going to a fund. The fund, what does it want? He wants to win right away. This loan law, whether informed or not, has imperfections. It is not deductible from the payments already made, it does not have a percentage of the sales price of the due date. You will allow me to say that this is an important point. Why should we not have a percentage that will allow the fund to make a profit in order for the borrower to also be able to weigh his situation and, if possible, to meet his obligations? Why don't we do that? It's a proposal, if you want. To impose a percentage of profit on the management companies and in particular on the acquisition companies of the loans. As long as this is not done - I must remind you of something else - we are at risk of forced confiscation. And I'll go one step further. This law has a void and says that the sale by auction of mortgage loans, i.e. those that have the addition or mortgage, has already been suspended before the entry into force of the law, is already suspended. Let's say I owe a credit card from a consumer loan, I have a debt. I don't have a mortgage, it doesn't have an attachment. So he comes now after the law, he writes me an adjunct if I "red" out of a weakness and he can get me a real estate in the auction - and even if you want - since he is not covered by the law because I did not have the commitment by the date of his vote. And then I have to remind you what the rate of debt is from credit cards. I expect to hear that from the government too, so that we can see how it works out. Because, a large part of the Greek people after 2009, 2010, when unemployment began to increase, lived with credit cards. These are real facts which we need to see. The unemployed did not live from the EUR 250 of the allowance. They were charged at first, believing that it would be possible for the economy to recover. They discovered much later that the economy was not rescued and would continue their misfortune for a long time. I would like to make one comment: there has been a great deal of talk about this well-known holding company, the company that will acquire public property. I referred this morning and said why, in my view, it is unconstitutional. I have not been given the answer yet to two crucial issues that I have raised. First, if it includes the public property necessary for operational needs or if it is excluded. In addition - Mr Famellos has noticed and I am waiting for his positions - I have raised one question: in the case where the public assets available are not sufficient, what is within the list that this company can intercede will have a requirement for its administration, - I am talking about the supervisory board, I am talking about the board, - they have not answered these problems, they have not answered these problems, they are still facing them, they have told fellow Members that they will be the European Union's Courts who will govern and - they will have the opportunity to claim, add additional public assets to enable the debt to be paid? I said this morning - and I shall finish, Madam President - that another way of repaying debt must be sought and not through the disposal of the entire - as we go - of Greek property. For I recall again Article 106 of the Constitution, which says that the use of national wealth is to protect the freedoms of the Greeks, protect the welfare of the Greeks and keep the nation and the country. If the country is deprived of its property, it is held hostage. And I am afraid - and I do not want to be a veteran of evil - that developments in the future will be very difficult, as optimistic and that I should like to restrain. I am speaking, reading this text, which - let me say and passing - I read. In this respect, we state that we cannot vote for this bill and according to its own provisions. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u587	The Minister for Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, has the floor for some sort of legislative improvement, and then Mr Petropoulos, for two minutes, as he wants something to add. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u588	Ladies and gentlemen, I am tabling legislative improvements correcting grammar and authoritative errors and making some necessary clarifications and improvements. They are provisions for the Independent Revenue Authority, for the tax matters where, in particular, some changes are made to the dates. In Annex III of the real estate SWEDEN we add property identity data. Some issues are corrected and clarified for ratification of contracts for airports.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u589	Mr. Petropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u590	If we do not have a debate on widows again - it seems that many people like to go back to an issue that we have made clear - no widow's pension paid is abolished. We've said it again. What is changing is the possibility - which is being extended - of insurance for all Greek citizens in order not to justify an extension of a situation which has nothing to do with the new reality in the social security system. They will continue to receive a widow's pension for men or women widows have minor children and until they have completed their 24th year of age if they are studying. And in case the widowhood occurs after 55 years, they will also receive widow's pension. Otherwise, if it happens earlier than 55, they'll take her for three years before 55 and 67 full. Therefore, this is not something you have never heard before. I don't know why you repeat it. No widow's pension was abolished. None at all! There is therefore no such matter. And I have to tell you something I said in my speech in plenary. I said, therefore, that in the mail Hardouvelis there was the commitment - it was not even to be debated - that the widow's pension would only be paid for three years for those who are before 55. Therefore, we do not now create impressions which have nothing to do with the result that we have brought about social security.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u591	Mr Varvitsiotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u592	Ladies and gentlemen, there is some time beyond the political controversy that everyone takes on individual responsibility for the way in which he wants to look around, his constituents, himself in the mirror, looking at his children, his grandchildren, his unborn brides, if and whenever they come, he takes on individual and political responsibility for the decisions he makes. You know, in all these difficult votes that we have spent in this Parliament over the last six years, this is the first time that something so topical has been done, so much public property and national sovereignty is assigned, and there is not one hesitation, nor a predicted withdrawal from the government majority. This is the first time that we have been going through - and you will pass by your vote - such a dramatic change in the situation of the country without having second thoughts. No one can blame me for being against the privatisations. Let me tell you that the two of the most basic privatisations that you're going to complete these years, the PPA and the PLF, are privatisations that I have designed and organized while we're in the government. But this mortgage fund of public property is impossible for the mind to conceive. And it's impossible for the mind to conceive it that you vote without any quarrel. If it was so good, why didn't all previous governments vote for it? Two were the requirements of lenders from the outset: the "cutter" in public spending, the country losing, that is, the country's capacity for fiscal policy, and the granting to international control all public property to the perpetual. So why did not all the pilgrims, traitors, salesmen, who sit on the fours, German germans, Cholakoglou, Papandreou, Papadimas, Samaras, if that were so good? And now came Alexis Tsipras, Panos Kammenos, and they were happy to find the magic solution. Do you know how much lies you've lied to yourself - I've been listening to you for so many hours here - about this fund? You're telling us that it doesn't change the S.H.I.E.L.D., that you're changing the S.I.E.L.D., that you're abolishing the S.I.D., that it's over. Have you not read what the law says in it, that the GOI is incurring and retaining its original law, Law 3986, Article 188(6), and its revenues go without changing a single provision of the founding law of the GOI?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u593	No real estate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u594	You're not changing anything in the TIAD. That's how you get it, so we can get it straight. Don't sell hay to the natives. You've put 24% VAT on hay. But don't sell it. Secondly, you tell us that you will receive 50% of the fund and do what you want, you will make productive investments in the country. Liar! In Articles 199(1)(b) and 200(3)(b) it is very simple to describe that 50% goes to debt and 50% goes to the assets held by the fund. Thirdly, you're telling us you're going to control the fund. You've all been told. You don't control the fund. No decision of the Fund may be taken without the participation or approval of a representative of the creditors. It's over and out. Fourthly, you're telling us he's not selling out the fund. Did you read Article 201? What's he saying? ‘Methods and recovery procedure. In order to privatise their assets, the company and its direct subsidiaries may, for example, sell them, transfer any property, intent or other rights to them.’ Have you read it? Don't say things that don't apply. You tell us that this is the list of real estate and other assets and that there will be no more. PPC came in-- it's out, the H.R.D. and the H.R.D.'s in-- it's out. No falseer. In Article 196(6), you say that the Minister of Finance with a single-tier, with a decision he may transfer to EBRD any real estate of the public. Have you seen the EBRD property list? Because he hasn't been filed. What belongs to the EBRD have you seen? Have the citizens of Attica seen that all the beaches from Faliro to Sounio are transferred to this property, to which you were going years ago and you opened the beaches? Have they seen it? Have you seen the real estate of this fund? Take a list of ETAD property and rub your eyes. Of course, here, you know, there are some moments coming when you make this political activism, which you are faced with in reality, as it is faced with its photographs - not the ones - the Chief of Independent Greeks, Mr Panos Kammenos, who was in Parliament a few years ago. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I would like to ask him tomorrow to speak, to deposit the T-shirt in the Minutes, to put it in a case out here, so we remember what lies you've been lying to the Greeks all these years! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you're selling all this for a chair, as it sells out the wages of the soldiers and security officers who are today cutting them off. And perhaps of these 183 million you are cutting them off, something to give them back and say 'we are partly satisfied with the decisions of the Council of State'. Madam President, in addition to the fact that you have cut out of every category of people with the twenty-seven new taxes you are imposing, I would also like to give you a Nobel inventivity of new taxes. The most characteristic example - and I close with it - is the coffee tax. In the roasted coffee we add 3 euros to the unburned 2 euro tax, to the instantaneous 4 euro tax and to the preparations of 4 euros tax. With such ingenuity, Mr Chakaloto, you really deserve a Nobel inventivity of new taxes! Ladies and gentlemen, think very well, before you vote tomorrow, what you will vote for this fund, because no Greek politician has actually thought of this kind of mortgage on public property. And you lightly come here and you support it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u595	Mr. Antoniou from SYRIZA has the floor. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA will then be given the floor, Mr Famelos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u596	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the final end of the Memorandum and Financial Measures that we need to take in order to achieve the objectives for which Greece has committed itself by voting for No.4336/2015. For those of the Vice-Presidents who have a short memory, I would remind you that the relevant law was adopted in Parliament of the Greek Parliament in August 2015 with 222 votes by SYRIZA, ANEL, New Democracy, Potami and PASOK. With regard to the measures of 5.6 billion and to have a picture of the sizes, I would like to remind you that only in 2014, Mr Samaras' government has taken 10 billion-dollar measures. It also committed the country until 2018 to measures amounting to more than 20 billion in excess of the current agreement, which provides for the implementation of the measures to be implemented within three years. However, despite the 10 billion-dollar measures you took, the financial results you achieved in 2014 were poor and failed to achieve the goals you set. On the contrary, the current government exceeded the target for 2015 by 1% of GDP in terms of the primary surplus, despite the credit suffocation imposed by the lenders. So those who have taken unbearable measures which would undermine the future of the country, knowing that they cannot implement them, those who risked blowing the sacrifices of the people in the air if they were to remain in the government and some time ago told us that we are late, today we are being accused of being sold out. They deliberately translate as a "delay" the tough and difficult negotiation and the explicit refusal of this government to do what the previous one, to sign texts written by others and sent them by mail. The completion of the forthcoming assessment opens the way for critical bills, such as voluntary disclosure of untaxed funds, smuggling of tobacco and fuel and electronic payments. The debate on debt relief also opens up with a concrete and binding timetable. It also opens the way for the return of the economy to the virtuous cycle of growth. This will happen, firstly, by strengthening the liquidity in the economy as a result of the return of water and Greece's accession to the European Central Bank's quantitative relaxation programme. Secondly, with the influx of EUR 5.6 billion in the amount of public debt to private individuals and businesses. Thirdly, with the public investment programme of 6.75 billion for the current year. Fourthly, with the development law, which is already in consultation and will be voted on in the near future. Overall, the resources expected to invade the economy in 2016 are estimated to reach between EUR 9 and 12 billion. Not only do they balance out the medium-term material impact of the measures, but they also give the good belief that the economy will be moving in a development direction from the second half of this year. I shall refer to the main points of this draft law, starting from the two directly related to Greek households: VAT and other tax arrangements and red loans. One unit of VAT increase from 23% to 24% was counter-proposal by the government, in order not to apply the requirement of institutions for horizontal increases in PPC's and water tariffs from 13% to 23%, which would be excessively affected by popular strata. The total burden on households and especially on the basket of the people's family, with the products involved, is much less than that which would have been if we accepted the requirement of the institutions. As far as red loans are concerned, I would like to say that the first residence with an objective value of up to EUR 140,000 is protected, without income criteria. In practical terms, that is, 93% of borrowers are covered. The new law facilitates banks to restructure business loans so that they can continue to operate. They will also be taken into account in restructuring and debt to the public and insurance funds in order to address the overall viability of each undertaking. It is therefore clear that the complaints of counter-population and especially of the New Democracy throughout the past period were nothing more than a noisy communication theatre in order to shape itself in the climate of insecurity and terrorism. It has probably forgotten that its commitment was the complete liberalisation of the auctions and the sale of red loans. With regard to the new fund for investment and privatisation, I would like to say that the new fund is not a new R & D fund. The fund's assets are for recovery and not necessarily for sale. The fund is Greek and is run by Greece. The Fund's revenue will be directed by 50% to investments and 50% to debt repayment. This distribution is the result of negotiation on the part of the government, contrary to the original intention of the institutions. Nothing is implemented without the final signature of the Minister of Finance and social control and transparency are ensured. Ladies and gentlemen, the Civic main opposition attempted in the past few days to set up a disgraceful show of a communication character rather than a substance on the draft law in question. Those who supported measures of over 65 billion in the years that coexisted with the PASOK, those who created the explosive and unthinkable deficits in the years that changed in the government, who charged the country, because they brought us to the constellation of the memoranda, those who did not want to be glorified by the troika in adopting hard policies of austerity and dissolution of the social state, seeing that there was a light on the horizon and that our country is visible to get us out of the dark tunnel that led us to their policies, seem to be concerned. Their dreams and pursuits for not reaching an agreement and failing to complete the evaluation get a definitive end. A new period, difficult, but hopefully opened for our people after 24 May. With hard work, patience and perseverance, this government gradually lays the foundations for a Greece of growth and social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u597	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Famelos, Parliamentary spokesman for SYRIZA, followed by two MPs, Mr Papapas and Mr Emmanoulidis. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u598	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, starting with my position, I would like to highlight some issues relating to the parliamentary procedure. I think I have to make this statement, and I also see a climate which I do not think is a honour for the Greek Parliament over the last few days. We must protect the parliamentary procedure. For us, for SYRIZA, our commitment to democratic identity obliges us to do so. Of course, we also have another task, to protect and defend the popular mandate of the 2015 elections, which obliges us to be firm and effective in all matters, in saving the country, in progress, in social justice, not to lose the road, no matter how hard the path is. However, these days in this House we have experienced a conscious and strong deterioration of the parliamentary process, a theater of cries, but also a reason, which is highly degrading for the level of our country, for the culture of Greece and not just by the Civic Anti-Civilisation. Obviously, we understand that the aim of all these efforts is to stop the people's mandate. However, we want to point out that, ladies and gentlemen, you are giving room to emetic, undemocratic, extreme right and fascist voices and logic. We have a responsibility, but you have it. We note it and take initiatives in this direction. But let's get to the bottom of the bill. Today's debate aims at completing the agreement at Tuesday's Eurogroup, completing the evaluation, which is something that all Greece, but also Europe, expects, in our country's funding, and also in the debt agreement. From these aspects, you understand that today's debate is of top importance for our country, which at the end of 2014 was last in Europe and was obliged - persecuted by the Eurogroup, failed in the objectives for the surplus and in all reform measures - to take measures of EUR 20 billion, which already had a 25% reduction in GDP, already 28% unemployment and already 33% poverty. The country was not on the cliff, it was not on the edge of the cliff, it was already on the cliff, and we took the responsibility that Greek citizens chose both through a hard and difficult battle and period of time we reached the Eurogroup special Eurogroup on 9 May, where we had not only managed the agreement but also the new blackmail that occurred in April for the resolution of 3.6 billion euros but also the prescribed non-commitment of some European countries for the debt. It wasn't Greek. It was not a problem we had to solve, because it was about our country. It was and is a deeply structural problem in Europe, which, unfortunately, the whole of the country's counterpopulation does not see it, cannot see it. He can't see out of this tiny-party reading, with a sterile provincial logic. We would once again point out that while you are staying in the management of the chair, you are losing both the country and Europe. And that is damage to both the country and the citizens, and that is why we have to tell you. However, we have reached this extraordinary Eurogroup with very positive results in mismatch, if you like, with Greece's power and position in December 2014. But, in order to have a real debate, I would like to say that it has been tabled since December 2014 or since the 2015 elections, in January until today, another prospect, another solution, another strategy or another proposal to resolve the country's problem otherwise? Because we need to leave the crocodile tears on destruction and on a problem and weakness of the country. Is there anything different that we can do? We've heard two other alternatives. One is the neoliberal proposal. Mr Mitsotakis submitted it to WASHINGTON POT: International Monetary Fund, property sales, redundancy of employees, additional austerity, no national sovereignty. Not just Mitsotakis, Adonis, but also Webber, Shoeble, or Grexit. Grexit's package is clear through the greatest austerity and a country deported. That's the neoliberal logic. There is another vigilant - if you want - perception, with a moral fantasy, but without any proposal for a social survival. The drachma, the moral, the pure, but still the drachma. We may not have had experience of administration, of not having the state mechanism or of not having it yet - and we may not care about it, because we do not have such priorities - but the country was on the cliff and we did the best it could and now the country is up on its feet. And we are not saying this, all the figures say it, all the institutions say it, and they will also say it in the Eurogroup. But can a debate of ignorance on the subject and content of the bill be put today? Because this theatre was played by many colleagues in the Committee on Thursday. Since July, from the compromise in the Eurogroup and the Council, in the House in August, and for eight months now, we have been discussing the same matter. And we voted for it. Because, rather, the curator's custody was not restored, after the phenomena of the previous memorials, which some people did not read, I must say again to the House and listen to the Greek people where we agreed and where we described them. So in the law we voted in 4336, obviously not you and obviously I mean for the New Democracy, for the River, for the Democratic Partnership, the Property Fund was on pages 1030-1031. Indirect taxation on page 1016. In fact, there was a reform of the personal income tax, a cost freeze, parametric tax measures and monitoring with compensatory measures on financial risks. Even that contour of the mechanism was inside. HISBIA, page 1017. The Autonomous General Secretariat of Public Revenue on page 1018. The regulation of red loans on page 1024. IPTO on page 1029. The name of the farmer's profession on page 1017. Settings for where you belong, page 1033. The General Secretariat of Digital Policy on page 1031. Ports on page 1030 and without any predictions that we extended for the regulatory authority. Airport contracts, page 1030. And IPTO was predicted to be more negative than we've come up with. A lot of what was predicted and voted on and you knew has a much better outcome than the one we had as the contents of the debate in August. But because, probably, you don't know where all this is, I'm rescheduling the v. 4336, because it seems that custody should be returned to the House. Please, I'm tabling him for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But in addition to the n. 4336, why is there also a media debate, there is a euro of more than 3%, EUR 5.4 billion, which burden the country on our own responsibility, with the current policy, with the current government? Not one euro more than 5.4 we do not have as a delay, as a weakness, as a deficit, as a delay, if you like, even the economic machine. For the first time, the country has no brakes at European conferences. For the first time after two years, the evaluation has been seen - for over a month and a half from all the European institutions and the Great Week by the Commission itself - to be complete. And you see what we don't say, they all say so now. However, I note that there is a very serious breach in the European People's Party, and that you must see, ladies and gentlemen. Is it possible for Mr Junker, Mrs Merkel, Mr Dieselblum to say that it is EUR 5.4 billion and that Mr Stagiras says that it is EUR 9 billion and that another colleague from New Democracy says it is EUR 12 billion? You must finally agree and agree with your Eurogroup, because the extraordinary Eurogroup has confirmed that the account by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government - for Greek citizens has not been raised. And that proves, ladies and gentlemen, that opposition does not support the country's negotiation. It does not support, for example, the protection of borrowers. He doesn't support any element of the law he's come to. But we are being invited - I have heard Mr Stakoura - to achieve the maximum possible results and the maximum possible funding on Tuesday. We'll do it. We'll do it for our country. We will do this for the Greek citizens. But this absolute confusion in opposition can harm the country. And this is due to the loss of a strategic plan and perspective, now in particular for the New Democracy. They blamed us for risking the summer with the delay and we have to vote for an agreement and whatever it is. He was with the strategy of "NAI". And now what we have gained, obviously, have been voted on, but they refuse to support them. They blame us on the one hand for agreeing everything with the lenders, and now they say "Why did you negotiate six months to win something more?" such as IPTO, for example. They blame us for negative elements in the economy and describe a very negative landscape everywhere, where they stand and where they are found, creating a negative climate for investors as well. On the other hand, when Eurostat announces it, they prefer to take the part of the leaks at the expense of the country rather than to say that Greek citizens and producers have done so, the Greek state. Even in red loans, this revolt is expressed. A week ago views were published that New Democracy supported its positions on red loans, because obviously the protection of 93% of borrowers is something that they could not ignore. But now they come here pressurized by the statements by the former Prime Minister, their former President, Mr Samaras, and they say 'no, we do not support them'. The New Democracy's peninsula doesn't stop moving. But be careful: In the match of Mitsotakis - Samaras note 2. At the game of Hatzidakis - Adonis note 2. The strange thing is that the far right now wins and you have to pay attention to this, ladies and gentlemen. You've fallen victim to it, we understand it. Some have convinced you that we can be left-wing parentheses. Perhaps they have made you operate in this direction. And now you're coming to us and you're asking us not to honor the people's order. Is it a little foolish to ask us not to vote for the policy the Greek citizens gave us? Instead of addressing all those who have put you to serve the left parentheses, to serve a weak country, you come to us as well and ask for the change. The answer, however, is that the will of the people is to change the country's course. But I wonder what you're most worried about? The fact that our country's going well? The approach of the canal contest? Because it was announced this week. Having them coming out last week, last month too intensely new tax evasion lists, panama papers and the last Henry Dunan scandal? To tell you the truth, we were not particularly concerned about why the New Democracy and only the New Democracy voted against the Committee of Inquiry to ask the House for the advertising expenditure of the banks. We're waiting for it. We understand that. What we do not understand and is more concerned about is if you mind the progress of our country. And on this structure you are trying to build, you are unfortunately attempting a very great counterfeiting of reality. The law we are discussing today, the bill, is two hundred eighty-two pages. Where to seven and a half thousand pages? Along with his explanatory statement, together with the amended provisions, the accompanying material is seven hundred ninety-two pages. You are obviously referring to the annexes to airport contracts, which you completed as a contract preparation. More lies have been heard these days, for example with the fund. And you also create a picture of false at all levels. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, you will allow me to use my dentistry as well. Even the Scientific Service of the House has not identified these weaknesses that you have said. Because only the private property of the Ministry of Finance is included in the fund. No part of public property is included. And the TECs are included in a specific annex. Other ECEIs are not included. And it's all false about public property. It does not include public utilities. And even from the private property of the Ministry of Finance managed by the EBRD, additional conditions are put in place to limit management with greater security in the Natura areas, in the archaeological site, that is less than the one that the EBRD has in any case been managed by the EBRD. Is parliamentary control suspended at the fund? How is that possible? Since we have an annual report and an evaluation. Is there a seat in Luxembourg outside Greece? You probably didn't understand. We voted in August: Greece alone, Greece, Greek members, a majority of the public. Why are you hiding all this? If we wanted to sell out, do you think we'd put ninety years? Wouldn't we close it in three, five, ten years? The ninety-nine years, ladies and gentlemen, ensure that we do not want to privatise. We want to manage in depth, to win the Greek citizen from the value of Greek property, to lease, to invest together with private and social capital. Is that what you do not want, that is to make investments in which the public will be monitored, that is, right employment contracts and you want to sell out with black work, like what you used to do so long? But, speaking of which, it bothers us that our fund for the two members will be recommended by the lenders. Who did this? Did we? Did we overburden the country to 180% of GDP? Not a single loan has been made by SYRIZA's government. On the contrary, it has reduced public debt. You're responsible for what you're accusing us of. Obviously for the colonial dimension that some of your speakers have described, you are responsible. Because you have been the ones who have owed the country, you have signed all the loans, and you have also shared them with your friends. Let me tell you something else that sounded like a lie. ‘The property of HIDE shall be raised or the property of HIDE shall remain itself’. For example, I will tell you: Rhodes. Twenty-five properties left the list of JAPD. Mr Varvitsiotis lied before. I invite him to come over and discuss Rhodes' properties. Three left just inside. Of the sixty thousand acres of Rhodes that were in the HWO, only six and a half thousand remain. 90% we regained it in public space. Do you know that? Why are you hiding them from Greek citizens? Why do you still play this game? Are you hiding that at the moment six million or more - six million seven hundred thousand, I think - are benefiting from six hundred thousand? Do you hide that we have been spared by the mechanism we proposed 3.6 billion additional measures, that 93% of the first place in red loans is protected, that we have won the Public Authority Port and regulator, to have a General Regulatory Authority at country level, Mr Carras, and in every place to have environmental monitoring, ports, public space controlled by the local with participation and self-government? It's not the same thing. It is the regulator at country level, and it is the locality, which also has the representation of local society. What about IPTO? Why are you hiding what happened to IPTO? What we are canceling, with today's bill, your own laws for the creation and sale of "little" PPC and for the sale of 66% of IPTO. What IPTO? The one who gives the electrical connections to Crete and the Cyclades. Which you wanted to do? In the Minutes of Mr Mitsotakis, now, new: “I say yes to “yes” to “yes” PPC”, i.e. we do not have control over the link with Cyclades and Crete. What else, of course, did Mr Mitsotakis say about tax measures? 'I propose greater taxation on cigarettes', and now you complain. Here, your Chief has said it. And what else does he have to say? That "those who defend the state character of PPC defend their own syndicate interests rather than the wider good". We therefore prefer to have public character in PPC and defend our country. We wonder what Mr. Mitsotakis is doing. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's hard to measure, and there's a lot of it. But we understand that there is a risk of austerity. However, it is the only and last budgetary measures that are being taken. And we say it publicly to Greek citizens that these 5.4 billion people are the least possible price we pay for a malicious political posterity of the times of bi-partisanism that they charged the country, which worked with "mediums", which wasted our country's work science and youth potential, our culture, education and all the public goods, to keep the chairs away from day to day from the political values that their parties may have once founded. But there's some fear. Mr. Carras put him in. What if the lenders keep claiming everything? What if there's always? How can we avoid it? Obviously, without a posteriori payment, you remain in Europe because you are a Europeanist. We are also concerned about this issue. We're worried if our country can raise a head. Do you know why? We don't move very easily, because we didn't get used to being professional politicians, nor did we get the political chair right, nor did you, I understand. We had another life path. We worked for our families and produced our homes. We have, however, taken the blame, because some have come to Greece in this situation. There's a way of hope, though. And we testify against lenders. First of all, the proposal we make about the debt. Our sustainable relationship with lenders, sustainable debt is the first parameter, Mr Carras. But democracy in our country, the fight against corruption, which we want together, without yellow crowns, is the second step in order to achieve a fair country. Work, too, is the third step, on which we must press and, of course, social justice. And it's a pity the good news doesn't sound. Good news, saying that even in the NSRF, this alas, this week our ministers announced that the budget was 25% increased in small and micro-enterprise projects and in tourist businesses. And more money we give to the economy. At the same time, of course, EUR 500 million for water, waste and solid waste and many projects of added value for local communities, including self-government. That's the model we want. Debt regulation, honest society, with democracy, social justice and social welfare and work. In this perspective, where no creditor can tell us why, we invite you to proceed together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u599	Thank you for the time, too. Mr Christos Papapas from the People's Association - Golden Dawn and then Mr. Dimitrios Emmanoulidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u600	What could one say in just seven minutes about the plan of ethnicity implemented in Greece by systemic parties, both the right and the left, over the last six years. The curtain is dramatically closing with the delivery plan, "legal plan" you say, which you are talking about today and a hundred and fifty-three of you, apparently, are ready to vote tomorrow. Put your signature on the country's delivery plan and commit the next generations, put our country under foreign sovereignty, through the European Central Bank, the European Union and the World Monetary Fund taboos. The Government of SYRIZA applies literally the neoliberal recipe of the New Democracy, which in turn had implemented its social-democratic PASOK policy. Simitis, Papandreou, Samaras, Venizelos, Mitsotakis and Tsipras could be a person. And it's a face, all of them, wearing a different mask and changing color in their party cloak. The people are bound to be given to every loan shark called "investor" all the structures of the state. It sees confiscation of incomes, all public revenues, all provided to the holding fund, the surplus fund, which will be under foreign administration. The articles of this bill, which you all confess to being a prerequisite for the institutions - which against the Greek Parliament - are the weapons of the invaders and of their men in possession of our country in a real economic war. 24% VAT, that is, any transaction is a tax. ISIS-type terrorists. The residence of the Greeks north on the leafy taco circles funds, which will be purchased with convenience and facilities and credit, please. The government has the courage to celebrate that it has closed the deal and that growth is coming. What growth? The same growth that Samaras was supposed to have had with the seven hundred thousand new jobs and the free Wi-Fi? Are you going through yourself so awake that you can always mock the Greek people? Turkish occupation tax without compensating the quality of life of the Greeks. Is that a modern state? Where is the welfare and protection of the unemployed, the poor, the disabled? What are health benefits? The ranjas, the long-term appointments, the intensified treatment units? Where is the protection of the partitions of working life, who have paid for decades of their contributions, which you do not pay? Not only that, but you hand over the property of the funds, which is their own property, of the employees, to the excess, i.e. "on the plate" of the loan sharks, the money of the Greeks. Private and public property, you assign it, you submit it to foreign dominance. You offer the Greek of 2016 as well as the Greeks who will come to at least three generations, our children, our children's children, our grandchildren and our grandchildren. You offer their blood and in return give them slavery, poverty and misery. You are turning Greece into a protectorate of foreign forces. You turn it into an endless favelas. You have all implemented together in good cooperation, pseudo-patriots and pseudo-lefts, the draft of the memorandum, the plan of support for the banks of Europe and the currency of the misery of most euro area countries, the famous euro. If any of you the same politicians who took over the prime minister's post in the last six years had in mind the aim of developing, prospering and security of the Greek people, if they were to hand over the country more firm and its people happier than they were when they received their office, things in Greece would be completely different. Which one of you is really a leader? Who has a vision of homeland and people? Who had a development plan for Greece and not specific interests, domestic and foreign? Nobody. None of you, regardless of ideological origin, had a vision and purpose of national independence, popular sovereignty and the progress of the Greek people. Your only vision is power and lisverish, that is, the complexity with pluralism. Your only vision is to serve the foreign interests, the bosses, who supported you and supported you in power. You are also hitting the country's national security and defence with this seven-and-a-half-page bill. You drag the Armed Forces and the Security Corps. You are hitting the human potential of the active and retired. In addition, you will also forgive the cartels through the Competition Committee. You are superpowering the Competition Committee to define and do what it wants on the market, namely continue to be a protector of multinationals and cartels. You're keeping an eye on me, Mr. Kumucaco, aren't you? Do not worry, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Your Luke still circulates, "solves and binds" in committee, writing the oldest of his shoes to the Greek Parliament. Five hundred million, half a billion, unresolved fines exist, which are a large part of what you are cutting off from the Greek people's pensions, those you are cutting off from the EASA. You are cutting off the pensions of the Greek people and of Greek workers to grab a gang, a criminal rodent organization. The draft law will be passed by you. We, the Greek nationalists, will not vote for it. I remember what I said, from this Step in November 2012, about the implementing laws that Samaras had then brought to the vote. Samaras, who said, "The deception of the people is revealed, the nemesis will not be long." It's Samara's words. And it gave everyone anger, not only to the opponents of the New Democracy, but also to the neo-democratics themselves, who said: "Look who speaks." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President, and I shall conclude. So, then, I said, in 2012, holding in my hands the massive draft law, that this will be your future forensics and that you will apologise against the Greek people and justice. Just the same thing I have to say today, expressing the Greek nationalists of the Golden Dawn and the vast majority of the Greeks. The Golden Dawn - and I shall end, Madam President - will fight with all legal means in the fight of freedom and national resistance. We won't retreat until our country is free. We want our country back. You are turning our people into a code number, into an electronic identity, which next month you will bring in and establish by ministerial decision. And I ask from this Stephanie the Greek people: do you want to be a number, a consumer taxpayer, who will count you as unknown private mercenaries? Do you want to be a slave, not an opinion, for no reason, without a personality? Or do you want to stand up and tell with faith your conviction and your opinion to demand what belongs to the economy, the political system, the society? So, as in last summer's referendum, you were given the opportunity of others to express your opinion and to alter it, you need to bruise with us, Greek people, and we invite you to say a bronze 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u601	Mr Emmanoulidis has the floor and then Mr Karaoglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u602	Madam President, I would like to highlight a correction to the law. There is a word error in the law, which you will be forced to correct with amendment. Let me point this out to you so that you can incorporate it corrected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u603	Come and tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u604	I'll tell you, but I'll make it public. Article 10(2)(e): This article provides that the selection committee of the members of the Management Board of the new AACC will be involved, inter alia, by an academic. That's what the law says. However, the word "academic", when used as essential, means the member of the Athens Academy. In all laws and legal terminology, the word 'academic' - so to speak, because that is what the legislator wants to say - is translated into official texts and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a 'LPD member', i.e. a member of teaching staff. So, so that you do not bring us an amendment and correct it, please make it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u605	Okay. Come on, Mr. Emmanuelides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u606	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, 'if it were not for our people, they should propose the rename of roads by the name of Papastavrou.' This is a statement by the Vice-President of the New Democracy, Adonidos Georgiadis. "I wish we could find ten Papastaurus to get the place ahead." This is an official statement by former Prime Minister and Head of New Democracy Antonis Samaras. A crippled expression of political cynicism or, otherwise, a disguised political affinity. The Panama papers, the Lagard list, the Borgians list, the Liechtenstein list, where Mr Papastavrous also list, of course! I will now come to a political quiz dedicated to the New Democracy colleagues for a freshening of memory. Genopoulos, Christoforkos, Mavrikos, Themos, Martinis, Psycharis in one column. Marfin, ‘ERRIKO DON’, DOLL, ‘ORIGINAL’, ‘SIEMENS’, ‘Acropolis’ newspaper in the other column. I would ask you to match the names of your honorable friends with the proven scandals that led to the conclusion of the public funds. Honorable friends, who led their land, their works and their days, to the great gravy during their political domination. It was at the same time that one after another closed the factories of the Sugar Industry, the cotton ginning mills, the cooperative factories of “SECKOBE” and “SVATH”, the dairy industry “AGNO”, the steel industry of Thessaloniki, ELVO, the dozens of industrial carcases that are hacking in Thrace. Without a trace of political planning, blocks of class dictators for decades have destroyed the country's productive tissue. Ladies and gentlemen, the memoranda did not come into play in our country as a natural catastrophic event, a earthquake, for example. The memorials brought them up consciously, when you systematically reared strife and corruption, when you suspected tomorrow of our children, doing flattery with "businesses", rodents of public wealth. The memorials you brought, with the debt slashing to 320 billion and the public debt to 180% of GDP. For five years you have operated them socially unaltered and economically destructive. Result of your policy? Reduction of GDP 25%. Unique sad world leadership in a time of peace. Debt indicators remained stubborn in the same figures: 320 billion debt, 180% of GDP debt. All of this, after you have led the people to the Social Observatory, with the nightmare of 26% unemployment and its universal poverty, with the exception of your honorable friends, who are on the periphery lists. Ladies and gentlemen, understand it and admit it, at last, that you have brought it to your attention. We, in a tragic moment for our country, have been called upon by our people to manage economic and social chaos. A year and a half ago, in the coup d'état, the world and European neoliberal system, with a good condolence with Civic Opposition and political extermination, tried and vaguely attempted to implement the plan of SYRIZA's brief parenthesis to the government. The facts, ladies and gentlemen, are known to all of us. With the back on the wall, our country was led to the acceptance of blame for our people of an agreement of 14 August. We accepted an agreement, which all the parties to the democratic arch signed, except for the JRC. The acceptance of that agreement was made on the basis of an application for membership of EMU, as Grexit was the sole objective of Shoeble and his neoliberal company. We are at the most critical historic turning point today. The decisions of 24 May, the Eurogroup's decisions, open up a new page for our country. The next day won't be the same as the previous day. The measures we have to adopt are, in many cases, far from our political will. When they even come as a result of a six - year - old social bleeding, they become unbearable. Why, then, should we vote on them? We are voting for a series of painful measures with a single objective: to return a page with the positive counterweights resulting from the completion of the evaluation: the absorption of the NSRF, the Junker Programme, monetary relaxation by the European Central Bank, a Regling proposal to repay the Greek debt to the IMF by the ESM, debt regulation. For all this, no word has been heard from the Opposition, and they are the ones that give a good prospects for the country's development and productive reconstruction. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Georgios LABROYLIS]] I now come to what has to do with the contents of the bill to be passed. The framework of the agreement, which was passed by almost all parties, defined the obligation of 1.8 billion as the last package of prerequisites for the closure of the evaluation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a moment, Mr President, please. The government's architecture of dealing with this demand was done with the required social responsibility so that the burdens would fall on many and many. We know, of course, that the last steps of society's progress in its six-year-old vulture are unbearable. However, they are measures that are trying to keep society elementally alive, opening a way out of the size of the memoranda. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the total impossibility of the New Democracy to propose at least one measure shows its political self-containment. It has come to a strategic deadlock, as an uncovered internal war is overthrown. Atrocities, on the other hand, create a climate that refers us to the unimportant "I don't know if you notice it, but we're a nice atmosphere", a pity and solidarity that would envy Kazantzakis' brothers. In PASOK it is obvious that the incomplete effort of the current leadership to get rid of the political burdens of the many sins of former leaders and of his chiefs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u607	Why are you protesting?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u608	I protest because they speak a lot more than time. If everyone was talking more than two minutes, what would happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u609	You're right. Mr. Emmanuelides,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u610	You're right, but always...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u611	We're here others, and we'll stay by one o'clock after midnight.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u612	Wait, wait, wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u613	Mrs. Asmakopoulou,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u614	Uh, well now, we've found cause now to be confronted. Mr. Emmanuelides, please, now. Now, or I'll turn off the microphone. I'm telling you. I'm explaining that there are no problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u615	Mr President, I fully respect it, but I am one of the speakers who always support the enthusiasm in this House. I never misused time. Let me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u616	Finish, we're wasting time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u617	And, anyway, it's just a minute more than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u618	Potami, then, with its shallow ideological bed, is increasingly depriving itself of it, since its birth was not irrigated by social sources. It was a birth of the need for the accountable political system to create an inseparable political impediment against the political power of SYRIZA. The Centro Association, politically unscrupulous, with its political compass showing the extreme right-wing pole more and more often, has taken on the entrepreneurial role of degrading the political system. With the exception of the JRC, as it is consistent with its self-sufficient but irresponsible social ideological orthodoxy, all the other parties of counterpopulation are in a process of self-concentration. Believe us, we're not happy about that. On the other hand, we are aware of our serious historical responsibility to drive at this time alone, our country and our people in the clearing of reconstruction. Our only device in this difficult project is the innumerable meanings...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u619	Mr. Emmanuelides, please. You've been talking ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u620	Two seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u621	Two seconds aren't enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u622	...in the workplaces of work and social credits acquired by the social struggles, our clean path and the cleanliness of intentions. These are our weapons, and that's what we're fighting with. We are aware of the difficulty of the project. After all, the Left has always been called for the difficult ones. We're not going to be suckers. We'll fight.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u623	All right, thank you, Mr. Emmanuelides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u624	What's that now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u625	We might lose some battles. We will win the war because we owe it to the country and its people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u626	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, Mr Karaoglu, to consult until the end of the sitting, which we have set until 12 o'clock. In order to reach twelve o'clock at midnight they should speak about fifteen Members, but using just seven minutes, even with some tolerance. I propose that Mrs. Keramea be the last speaker. This evening's meeting will be concluded with Mrs. Kerameos. I do not think there will be any objections to the Members who follow, whether or not they will be able to speak. We're not going to finish exactly at twelve, we're going to have the twelfth night, but what can we do? Mr. Karaoglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u627	With your tolerance, Mr President, as you have shown to your previous colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised to hear SYRIZA's previous parliamentary representative - who is about to leave, but I imagine he will listen to me for half a minute - say that we must protect the parliamentary procedure. Well, we fully agree, dear colleague, we have to protect her. And what does that mean? This means respect for Parliament's Rules of Procedure, respect for the anticipated days of legislative work, which, according to the Rules of Procedure, is Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday and not Saturday and Sunday, and of course normal and not urgent procedures. What we have seen so far is that you have made normal urgent procedures, you have made the exception rule. However, this is also an indication that the government itself now recognises indirectly, but clearly, that it is in the middle of social and political isolation. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been sixteen months since the January 2015 elections and, unfortunately, for the Greek people, unfortunately, for all of us hope has come, seen and renounced. The resurrection of the Greek economy, which was to take place before Easter, is postponed for the next Easter, despite the fact that it rains billions, according to the statement by the MP of the ANELs, while at the same time the left man reaps wages, pensions and dreams of an entire people. Recently a British newspaper, "THE GUARDIAN", wrote something and is absolutely right about it: "Only the air that the Greeks breathe has not yet taxed." Taxes everywhere, charges on everything. You wrapped Greece into seven and a half thousand pounds of paper, and you got it to be with the cutter on the back, because today the bill we're discussing is really an ethic. Evacuate an unprecedented tax storm over righteous and unrighteous, and you baptize this "redistribution of income". You will shortly be telling us that the first home auctions, which, as I say, are also coming, are a measure of the definitive exemption from ENPIA. You emptied the pockets of the Greek people, sold out everything, enslaved the country in essence and you have the political courage, because it is about being so sad that this House does not vote for new measures or, in other words, that these are the last measures. Only you did not specify whether these were the last measures in May. There's more coming then? But let's see what the hard reality is. First of all, the isotope draft, which we are discussing, brings a new package of indirect taxes of EUR 1.8 billion. Of these, only the 11 million - to 1.8 billion, 11 million - relate to expenditure cuts. All the rest are taxes: indirect taxes, unfair taxes, without end and without logic, taxes imposed on what is moving, taxes that poor households, taxes that run horizontally any manifestation of Greek entrepreneurship, taxes that will cause fatally further dissolved immorality and paralytic stagnation in the real economy, the private economy. In fuels, for example: Unlead is estimated to increase by 4 minutes per litre, heating oil by 6.5 minutes per litre, diesel by 10 minutes per litre, while liquefied gas by 14 minutes per litre, at the final charge - including other parameters - to be estimated to be a total of 2,5 euros for the consumer. Where should I go from and where should I stand? The factors of HISPIA are increasing in plots, which touches thousands of citizens in the middle class. You are raising VAT from 23% to 24%, calculated that you will in theory receive an additional EUR 440 million, but without a reduction in consumption. I would refer you to the Lafer curve, to see what that means. In addition, since July 1st, the proportional tax on cigarettes is increased from 20% to 26%, while since January 1st 2017 you are imposing a tax on coffee, beer, on pay-TV account, on the fixed-telephone and internet account with Greece, unfortunately, to become the first western European country, which imposes taxes on Internet use. But that is not all, ladies and gentlemen. You do even the country's heavy industry, tourism, only a few days before the official spring season starts. From July 1st, remove the reduced VAT rates in Thasos, Andros, Tinos, Karpathos, Milos, Alonissos, Kessos, Antiparos and Sifnos, hitting the local economy of the islands. Since the New Year of 2018 you have introduced a new horizontal capital tax on tourism, the fee for accommodation in hotels, putting on the substance a paddock on small hotels and small family businesses. Furthermore, in the regulation on ENPIA, you anticipate an increase of the additional tax from 2.5% to 3.5% for private persons under non-profit law, for their own installations. Wrong! Big mistake, Minister, you're also present. Correct it! In these difficult times private individuals of a non-profit-making nature must remain standing, because these associations are at the forefront of the social offer. For example, HANTH in Thessaloniki. Don't exterminate them. Nor can I refer to the multiple taxation of businesses. At a time when the tax system in Greece needs to be simplified, in order to attract strong investors to the country, you do what goes through your hand to drive these investors away, strengthening any prospect of growth and creation of new jobs, dismantling the private sector and killing what production and creative remains in the country. Of course I cannot comment on the famous cut-off, which I think the word that describes it absolutely is the word 'grass'. This is a pity for our democracy, as it abolishes the House, since the automatic cut in expenditure will be carried out by presidential decrees. Loaned for wages, pensions, social welfare. In short, you are turning Greece into Greece S.A., defining the heads of markets vultures, as Alexis Tsipras said before the elections, in the easy years of the opposition, when he was still being convicted of fraud. And don't hurry, ladies and gentlemen, to accuse us that we don't have a constructive attitude. Consensus, however, does not mean that we should become a winner of a failed government or become accomplices to the unprecedented divestment of public property, the loss of national sovereignty and the conversion of Greece into an endless hot spot debt. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Today's deadlocks are your choices. And because the enthusiasm is exemplary of those who are dismissing their responsibilities, it gives me an alpine impression that for sixteen months the members of the coup d'état have been very sad, but not repentant. It's always someone else's fault, whether they're the channels of interlocutory, whether journalists or a non-left anyway. So don't fool SYRIZA and ANEL. Because you signed memos too, this thing doesn't make you the same as us. We're not all the same. We in the two years 2012-2014 have implemented a different policy mix, which focuses on the containment of expenditure and not on increasing taxation. We believe in the market economy and we are talking about high growth in a sustainable way, namely by restoring confidence, speeding up reforms and privatizations, attracting investments, increasing employment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u628	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u629	I shall conclude, Mr President. I ask, ladies and gentlemen, after sixteen months of governance, SYRIZA - ANEL: Who is the 'Germany', who is enlightened, who is a local reaction? We, who have put back to the hardships and delivered a country with real surpluses within the euro, or today's rulers, who turn the country into space? We, which said yes to Greece, to production, to exports and to normality, or to those who, today, are talking about Greece, are proud and hard to negotiate, charging tens of billions of dollars on the back of the Greek people? Are we, who have envisioned a Greek without borrowing, or are those who are taking out Greece of the badly-meaning maniac? Personally - and I close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance - I have chosen to belong to the former. Better - according to the designations of SYRIZA - a local reaction than a left-wing and mortalist of Greece! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u630	Mr. Theonas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u631	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot start talking today, for the first time these days in the House, without dealing with the appearance we had as a parliament in the two - three previous days. I would like to support this phenomenon, and this House must act as a football stadium - not to say a hooligan - because I believe that neither the people, who make up the composition of this House, nor the whole Parliament in general, are honoured. I think that this way of working poses a great risk to parliamentarianism and democracy itself. Because, when the most important institutional political institution of democracy treats it in this way, I think that the very concept of democracy and the democratic state of the country is now in jeopardy. At the meetings of the committees and at their joint meetings, which took place in the Chamber, it appeared that the President-in-Office could not run the procedure and work, because from below everyone would take the microphone himself and did the President and told the President what he had to do. The newspaper headlines of the next few days, from these phenomena, also give the measure of which situation was shaped and how it was dealt with. "The sidewalk in the House", was some of the newspaper headlines, when they presented this situation that was formed here. I have repeatedly made comments and comments on the level of political dialogue, which mainly includes characterisations, hybrid expressions and content sad and vulgar. I do not think, ladies and gentlemen, that this can continue and be said to be 'you are lying, you are incapable, you are like this, you are otherwise'. Is it always possible to think that this is a political dialogue? I do not know where else it can be daily activity or activity or expression, but in Parliament I think it is unacceptable that it should be on the agenda. I am simply noticing it and commenting on it, because I think that the people who saw these phenomena should listen to a voice, which says that this situation cannot continue in the Greek Parliament. Below now. The spokesman of the New Democracy told us yesterday - the day before - to study the position of Mr Stakoura, who, as she said, has recorded some points - said about seventeen or twenty-seven points, I do not remember - from the speeches of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras who are not actually confirmed. Ladies and gentlemen, these days I am tired of listening to these arguments in the House, which I believe can only express those who want to denounce the government or criticise the government, but who are not able to speak with the descriptions that are unacceptable and I think they are also insulting our level. However, because many voices have been heard by the New Democracy and the previous government, I would like to ask: Have you read, ladies and gentlemen, the loan agreement of 130 billion in the first memorandum? Have you read it? I'll remind you of a few things that are involved. Firstly, all the revenue resulting from the privatisations, which you always think should be on the agenda, went to the Luxembourg account to pay the creditors. In addition, much of the VAT revenue and a substantial part of the State’s revenues from direct and indirect taxation went to the same account. A second element in the history of the 130 billion loan contract. The whole process of our country's relations with the European Union, with the memoranda, with the obligations, etc. They are under the jurisdiction of English law. I say it about some who speak in a dirty voice and put us in order and talk to us about patriotism and our nation and about it and the other. That's the law you've brought. All the issues relating to our relationship with the European Union have been put before this law. Third point. Apart from that, the most important thing is that this loan agreement was abolished, suspended, the immunity of public property, which applies to all European countries. I have seen many tears spilling all day in Parliament about the public property in danger. What's he in danger of? From the fact that a number of public enterprises... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall now conclude, Mr President, in a moment. Excuse me, I'm disoriented. It's okay, I'll find it. The waiver of immunity relates first of all to all public property, even to archaeological sites, and only the Parthenon was excluded from this arrangement which was in the loan contract of the first Memorandum. So I think that this should work. Many have cried for the fact that the new body created - which is public - is, they claim, in the hands of lenders and all the public property will go to foreigners. It's not like that. And I want to tell you that the great risk to public property is the lifting of immunity and sooner or later these can and can be implemented. A couple of years ago - I don't remember, but Andreas Loverdos who I see may remember - had threatened Ancient Olympia as part of this choice made with the loan contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u632	Mr. Theonas, let's close, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u633	I'm not trying to scare anyone. I say, however, that some people have wept a lot, but they have not said a word about the fact that there are ninety-one real estate on the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u634	Mr. Theonas, you've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u635	You didn't say a word about it. Nobody said a word. They only said that these will now be sold out and sold out by a public company set up by this law to safeguard them and not sell them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u636	Mr Maniotis has the floor from the PASOK-DMAR Democratic Assent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u637	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I referred to the ninety-nine years that the country will be a protectorate and a debt colony. And by addressing SYRIZA, I cannot be tempted to say that it has taken place and will hand over a public property sales fund. Today I will not talk about the government's frauds or frauds, which cost the Greek people EUR 86 billion. I will not even speak of the attempt to wrestle the largest energy project in Southeast Europe, the TAP pipeline, which SYRIZA and Tsipras fought him when we brought him to Parliament. They didn't vote for him, but they celebrated a few days ago in Thessaloniki. I will not speak either of the heroic negotiation, the worst of 2015 at global level, according to Harvard, but it costs us EUR 12.5 billion. I'm not going to talk about the seventy thousand pensioners who are cutting them off the CSCE. I'm not going to talk about HNVIA in the five hundred thousand households, mostly in the province. I will not talk about the main-professional farmers, the increase from 35% to 50%, which mainly affects the mountain and disadvantaged areas of the country and those who live there. But, government children, enough crying! Martha Voursis and Nikos Xanthopoulou are now aesthetically retro and politically it is sad and unnecessarily. I shall therefore begin with Mr Tsakaloto. What did Mr. Chakalotos say? That he made a very heroic negotiation, because he did not accept the proposal to increase VAT on electricity from 13% to 23%. To absent Mr Tsakalotos I would like to say that Mr Tomsen of the IMF since 2011 has been asking me, demanding that we increase VAT on electricity from 13% to 23% and, of course, we did not. But, we never played heroes, we never did play theaters and we never had to say it in public. So let the government's negotiating team not be proud of doing something that did not increase VAT to the current from 13% to 23%. We've been negotiating with Mr. Thompsen. Secondly, Mr Tsipras. I am sure tomorrow he will try to tell us that he proudly keeps PPC and IPTO publicly. To get to know each other, PPC Group sells beer in exchange for zero. PPC's production from 75%, which is today, has signed Mr. Tsipras's 2020 to 50% and the retail clientele from 90%, which PPC currently has, has reached 50%, also in return for zero. But the SYRIZA government has done something much worse than that. He had the greatest ally, it's the luckiest government ever. When we handed over the government, the oil had 120 bucks a barrel. When Mr. Tsipras began to rule, the oil had 40 bucks a barrel. Do you know what this means to the national economy? Public revenue, indirect, about 3 billion euros. In PPC, we are discussing, on the basis of the accounts published in April 2016 for the financial results of 2015, you know what PPC says? That he won energy cost four hundred million euros from lowering the price of oil, without doing anything. Do you know what that means? This means that PPC must now reduce electricity tariffs by 10%, because it is obliged, precisely because of the reduced cost of producing electricity. With the barrel in the 120 dollars we made a social bill and put cheap electricity into seven hundred thousand families, 42% discount, first throughout Europe. With $40 a barrel, what should the Tsipra - Kammenu government do? Thirdly, in order to reach agreement between us, yesterday the table with the TEKO to be privatised was announced and within is, apart from the OAS, the 'ATTRO', it is also OSCE, urban transport. That is, the metro tunnels go to the lenders, the bus trains to the lenders, the trolleys and the trams to the lenders, the trains to the lenders. Are we all right? Are we going to pay rent to use the bus trains? Is that why urban transport, which has two thousand buses, is going out for traffic only a thousand, in order to get rid of them and have you received them healthy in early 2015 and now deliver them with a deficit of 100 million euros? I would like to say one last thing about Mr. Tsipras. It is about the same person personally and I am relieving their guilts to Mr. Skourlet and Mr. Tsironi, because of urban ignorance. Co-rapporteurs and colleagues, the co-legislators tabled an amendment cancelling all the second chapter of Law 4269/2014 on land use. And I say it for those of you who don't know that land uses have been the great sin of public administration over the last thirty years. That is why there were no investments, because they were based on the 1987 Presidential Decree. And we spit blood together with the Technical Chamber, and we made it a law. And on the basis of this law, the Asteras of Vouliagmeni, Kassiopi in Corfu, Afantou in Rhodes, i.e. all major tourist investments, are approved. What do the ministers say now? All chapter on land uses is cancelled and return investors to the 1987 Presidential Decree. In other words, go back to the employee who told you "you know, the law is unclear, come sooner or later to serve you." So we are going back to the time when, due to the ambiguity of the laws, the investor did not know what is legal and what illegal, without even a transitional provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u638	Mr. Maniotis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u639	I can assure you that there is no small investor - the baker, the hairdresser or the one who built a workshop - or a large investor who wants to make any investment, which, if you vote for, SYRIZA colleagues, this amendment and cancel the capital for the uses of land, will invest even one euro in that country. And the responsibilities are enormous for the Prime Minister himself. To conclude, I would like to say that, unfortunately, it seems that we are going to live through a Armageddon socio-economic and a Armageddon policy and national unconsciousness. The solution is one: The formation of a single, patriotic, progressive, central left-wing party, which will be the autonomous political pole, which will give the Greek people a new hope and perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u640	Mr Kumucasakos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u641	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today and tomorrow we will become eyewitnesses of the humiliating captivity of SYRIZA. With the bill he has brought and will vote with the ANELs, SYRIZA, along with the state property, and any ideological and political consequences he had left. He gives it all to his enemies yesterday, to his demons, i.e. to the memoranda, to the troika, to the International Monetary Fund, to Mr Tomsen, to the privatisations and to the international funds. SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, is finally selling his soul in exchange for a few more months to remain in power. SYRIZA becomes Faust of the Left. But, as you know, the end of Faust, of every Faust, is predetermined and tragic. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, the fights with the lovers you're giving, you're going to give them yourself. We don't care. You will solve these with your conscience, but mostly with the people who have believed you and who have cynically betrayed you. So that's none of our business. We are, however, concerned - and we are very concerned about - with what you are doing with home and what you are doing with society. After the insurance of dramatic cuts and unbearable contributions, after the unstable burden of direct taxes, you are now moving on to a tax massacre with indirect taxes. Slaughter, from which no one will escape, neither the citizens nor the economy. Take note of the irony of the matter: you, who have given everything to everyone, now tax without mercy and, worse, with no prospect, everything and everyone. First you cheated on them, and now you're kneeling them. All of them! Instead of abolishing the HISPHA, as you falsely said, you keep him. You keep him and raise him. You are cutting the tax-free from 300,000 to 200,000 euros, and further burdening the middle-class, which has already lifted most of the burden. You do not get away with the micro-ownership and the farmers either. Remove the discount on non-electrical properties, i.e. non-usable assets, are not exploited and bring no income to their owners. The Greek VAT is now a champion in Europe, among the top positions, since from 23% you make it 24%, that is, plus 1% horizontal charge everywhere, indiscriminately, in all kinds of everyday life, to all citizens. You also charge the small islands. The recipe is taxes. Taxes everywhere, in coffee, in cigarettes, in beer, in oil, in heating oil, in petrol, in pay-TV, in hotels, in late-class. And the list doesn't end. Didn't you better bring a law with what you're not taxing? It would be easier for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u642	What do you propose, Mr. Kumucako?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u643	The Minister himself, Mr Chakalotos, was forced to admit - publicly, indeed - at a moment of openness that the measures are essential. It does not, however, tell us that these fundamental measures will blow up all the predictions on which the building of your deadlock policy is based. The bomb is active and you've put it on the foundations of the economy. But the government is abundant and twisted into the dizzy of the prefecture of power. But there is still one more thing here, which exposes you severely and which, after the Dombrovskis statements, has been learned by all the Greeks: No one has imposed you the unscrupulous direct and indirect taxes that you put on the Greek people. It's your conscious choice, your conscious decision. You chose what you know. The perpetuation and redistribution of misery and not, of course, the development and production of wealth. But this happens when ideosy meets incompetence and together give birth to unreliability and inefficiency. It is this disastrous event that Greece and the Greeks are paying today. And we pay it not only by direct and indirect taxes. We're paying for it with the infamous no longer-cutter. You are legislating a mechanism for automatic horizontal cuts in wages and pensions. A mechanism that is automatic and out of parliamentary control. It is additional in relation to the mechanism that has already been incorporated into the Community directive. He is horizontal and unfair, as he does not exclude wages and pensions, and strictly quantified. Be careful, your cut, Minister, is an additional memorandum within the memorandum. And, indeed, it is a memorandum of automatic, horizontal and unfair. It's the ultimate memorial and it's 100% yours. You claim that, because you have surpluses, the cutter will eventually not be activated. Who believes you? Did you get anywhere in your predictions? Whatever you said, you've been denying it. Whatever you announced, you trampled on it. Whatever you promised, you broke it. The cutter will be activated and you know it well. You know it and you hide it. With the hurricane of taxes you impose, you are leveling the already exhausted real economy and launching a double attack on entrepreneurship, with the great taxes, that is, on production, but at the same time on the purchasing power of the citizens. Well, that is the recipe of the recession, the recipe for deficits and not the recipe for surpluses. This double attack will only have one effect: it will definitely activate the cutter. Basically, the measures you bring are the activation button. It's the same activation of the cutter. For the supreme democracies, the Participation and Property Fund, I will only make one point. Because you do not want, you do not know and you cannot do anything serious and targeted privatization, where and as you must, you have decided to do just one, once and for all. You grant state property, you privatize the country, you grant national sovereignty for a century. Thatcher was a socialist in front of you. You, the greedy, the enemies of liberalism, do not sell, sell. And don't ask us what we're gonna do. We have not received such misery and will never accept it. It is contrary to what we believe and to what we are serving over time. This is the humiliating slogan, in which you led the country with the supposedly tough negotiation and evaluation, an evaluation that should have been closed since last October. We were warning you. We have told you that, so where you are going, you will encroach on the country in the following dilemma: or degrading slogan or break with Europe. You did not hear us and you have now reached the heavy slogan. You have sacrificed the substance, the seriousness and credibility of the country in shallow impression, in propaganda.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u644	Finish, Mr. Kumucako.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u645	In thirty seconds, Mr. President. You've delayed the evaluation for eight months. Now you ask, after eight months, that we read, study and vote seven thousand pages in two days. Well, we won't. Try not to locate what you're trying to hide, to keep people from knowing what's waiting for him. But you won't make it. Today, SYRIZA and ANEL experience the day of the revelation. You signed and vote alone, a painful slogan for the Greek slogan. At the same time, you also sign the contract for the sale of your soul in what - beware - with extreme populism you had completely demonized. SYRIZA will stay in history like Faust of the Left, the liar Faust of political life. No matter how much you deceive, no matter how much you split, no matter how much you slander, the end, as I have told you, is predetermined and tragic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u646	Mr. Synthrakis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u647	Thank you, Mr President. Gentlemen of the coup d'état, you have brought in a multi-project monastery, which is actually a paradise for the rich people and hell for the overwhelming majority of the people: new indirect taxes, increasing ENPIA, privatizations, launching first home auctions, activation of the cutter in social expenditure as a permanent memorandum. So you're mocking the people when you tell him that the hard stuff is over and you're desperately trying to create a climate of euphoria to get his consent. You're afraid of the truth, because the truth is breaking hope. And the hope that is disguised depresses and discourages the people. Whenever it suits you, invoke Marx, and whenever it doesn't interest you, you twist him. In fact, the sugar rises to the hearing and only the phrase "tax struggle and revolutionary change". Not only SYRIZA, all of you, all of you, all of the parties of the urban arch. You're teaching us about the road map of capitalism in socialism. To go from capitalism to socialism, you don't serve capitalism. You don't give him your hand. You don't excite him in his absolute barbarity phase. You organise the working people's masses on a course of disobedience, conflict and overthrow to build their own power and economy. This isn't just detail to escape you. You realize that you're overdoing it. At best, refer it to the Monday Presence. You proved yourself to be the best reserve for capitalism. And this is the real casus belli for the working class and poor people's strata. This is the greatest service you've ever undertaken on behalf of the bourgeoisie class. That is why you have taken action under the code "ideological and political manipulation of the people", giving him new fruits hopes, that it can dawn a white day for him too, that you may, in conditions of absolute capitalist barbarism, come man above profits. And, to achieve this, you do the lie science. You say as much lies as possible to make them easier to believe. The working class, however, did not yet say the last word, nor will it be fooled by lies, communal triplets, festivals of the upcoming evaluation and propaganda for debt settlement. It is the symphony card, to proceed to the next anti-liberal step. We heard from Mr Dritsa yesterday and today from Mr Stathakis that there are good and bad privatisations, the privatisation of the right and the privatization of the right. Then why does the Association of Greek Industrialists give you the credit, why does it call for a vote in favour of the plan, offering, as he says, the help of the Government? But is it not to give credit? You are creating an overcrowded privatisation for ninety years, working in accordance with best international practices and OECD guidelines, undermining the country's wealth on behalf of business groups. Does an international capitalist economic organization, such as the OECD, have a social person and do we not know? Oh, no. However, you are betrayed by the simultaneous establishment of the surplus fund, the new development law and the implementation of the cutter, with incentives for favorable regulations and a pitfall of EUR billion for the big capital from the NSRP, the Juncker programme, privatisation and tax evacuation, to take them out of the crisis and put the burden on the people. Proof that the legislative acts of today on exemptions from large capital, exemption from excise duty on natural gas, the taxation of shipowners, exemption from municipal charges and other charges have been proved. You hand over tens of real estates - fillets to business groups with tax incentives, and that is what you baptize "development", such as the former Urna base in Heraklion Crete, seven hundred fifty acres, which have consciously left all governments to destroy their infrastructure, rather than schools, health centers, camps, sports centers. They are also baptized "realization". The same is true of Koutsunari in Ierapetra Lassithi, forty-eight acres with one and a half km beach, one of the most beautiful of Crete. And you tell us that beaches and sanctuaries are excluded! We also have the privatization of the fourteen airports, with the shameful 'FRAFORT' contract and it is before the gates another nineteen privatisations. And all of this, you are baptizing 'privatizations of social value'. And the list is long. Is it, then, that industrialists don't rub their hands? But they found the right people at the right time to make the dirty work where New Democracy and PASOK couldn't or did not have a chance. That's why you're accentuating the wide-ranging controversy between you two. The only reason you disagree is in the slaughter mixture of the people, whether the slaughter is carried out by tax or social costs. The result, however, is the same for the workers' pocket. What does not change and you have a gospel is your single strategy, serve the capitalists, recover from the crisis, perpetuate their sovereignty. This is the common basis of neoliberalism and social democracy of left-wing politics, yours, the SYRIZA. That's why you're fighting. Because one of them takes the bite out of each other's mouth. The contract for the concession of the fourteen airports to the ‘FRAPORT’ consortium entered into the 2014 Agreement between ‘FRAPORT’ and the TIADED, which created the New Republic-PASOK co-government. It is based on the 1953 Decree, which provides for measures and safeguards, such as the total safeguarding of capital, the exemption from municipal fees from any measure of requisition or of forced expropriation, compensation for any damage, the possibility of deferral of rent, the extension of the contract in the event of public debt to the company, the obligation of the Bank of Greece to grant foreign exchange to the investor and many more tax and other clauses, investment-friendly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u648	Mr. Synatiakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u649	I shall conclude, Mr President. It also imposes lighting, safety and passenger charges, in addition to the already four existing ones, such as wastefulness, without the intervention of any state authority. It also takes over public works contractors, giving in turn sub-contractors to ‘FRAPORT’ subsidiaries, without the consent of the State. As long as, for the workers? He is not committed to maintaining civil aviation officials. And that means unemployment, redundancies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u650	Mr. Symphony, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u651	And those who are willing to work with the concessionaire should accept burdensome working conditions, conditions of abstracts and reduced wages. So the choice - I conclude, Mr President, and thank you very much for your tolerance -...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u652	Yes, but we've reached nine minutes, Mr. Synhonaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u653	...the working class, the poor people's layers are one: To follow their own path to their benefit, the total rejection of the capitalist growth and struggle for labour, people's power, release from the European Union, with labour, popular control. The storm, the strong and the trees, is rooting out. And the people's storm can scan everything, as long as the people try it and really get redeemed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u654	Mr. Barriots has the floor. Come on, Mr. Barriotta, and years of your celebration.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u655	Thank you, Mr President, both for the time and the wishes, even if they are at midnight, and then at least the speech will be a holiday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u656	It lasts forty days.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u657	Forty days. I will begin with something that is not directly related to the political issue, the content of the bill, but in the form of, since these famous seven and a half pages were an opportunity, in order that the House could literally become involved in social media and media, since the image of the paperwork and the way the House was not computerized was a matter of fun, as it refers directly to the 1970s. In 1970 it was the decade of photocopying. Of course, because of size he shared CD this time, so in one night we spent twenty years ahead, in the 1990s, which is the CD decade. One assumes that, with the stepping-up that this House has, around 2040, we will reach the integrated IT systems for management and computerisation, which are currently being implemented throughout the world. I just want to say that Parliament's refusal to go through a modern computer system best illustrates the country's refusal to modernise. And I fear - to go to the bill - that the same is symbolic and essentially symbolic in the bill we are discussing, this famous bill of seven and a half thousand pages, as the intentions of the government, which for the first time have been so clear in a bill, are: "I answer the question of modernisation with a grandly no, thank you, I have no desire." I would also like here to say that this intra-Communist challenge that we have previously seen, the Finance Minister of a European country, in 2016, with Mr Pafile, at levels of disagreement on the policy between Khrushchev and Stalin, is also not the best and does not refer to a European country that wants to modernise. So I say that the bill shows, in the best way possible until now, the overall attitudes and objectives of the government, in relation to our lenders and partners, but also the way in which we exercise - perception, if you like - governance internally. We are talking about ten, practically, bills, which are not all the Memorandum responsibilities nor, in fact, have anything to do with evaluation. About half of them are irrelevant and have entered with the rest, mainly to get through without debate, briefly and without seeming exactly what is happening. With regard to the policy of partners and lenders, it seems that the government is promoting the completion of the evaluation, with the award of the famous political stability, namely the retention of power. And what does he give about it? Almost everything. This is essentially a full slogan in terms of relations with the outside, as it is about taxes, loans, collector policies, what is still pending and dragged into the country since 2010, what has been a 'hot potato', which goes from government to government and from Minister to Minister, is signed with this bill and, indeed, in terms that are more resilient than any other previous government. The tragic - or if you like it - is that there is no paragraph of this bill, there is no regulation of this bill, for which one cannot find with a simple search on the Youtube video of the Prime Minister or the accelerating minister today, who condemns, in the worst words, the predictions and arrangements contained in this bill today. It is therefore a question of 'fruit and water' in terms of the famous negotiation. More clearly than ever, it seems that SYRIZA and ANEL are not bound by any political and ideological framework and by any principle regarding negotiation with Europe. There are no red lines. They've all gone the worst possible way. Even national sovereignty does not seem to be a red line, because in any way Mr Tsakalots is trying to turn it around and soften it, the truth is that the Independent Public Income Authority, the superstition and the cutter in the way they are institutionalised, grant national sovereignty and popular sovereignty to superiors abroad. I will not use terms such as "exploitation", "constitutionalisation" and so on. That was the style of others. The country is at a terrible turning point and needs consensus and common effort. But the truth has to be said and expressed. The way in which they have been agreed and will be voted - seemingly - both the Independent Public Revenue Authority and the Supreme Court are seriously violating the principle of national sovereignty. That's the truth. And we did not vote together, colleagues in the summer. Reread the law. Mr. Amyras testified him. The legal form in which the two authorities arrived is not described in the memorandum. Seventeen hours were negotiated by the Prime Minister that famous evening and almost half concerned the famous real estate fund. It's your choice and your setting. We don't even have red lines on taxes. They've been abolished here, too. The choice is clear: Increasing revenue by each instrument. We have an incredible indirect tax raid everywhere. Of course, I think you have forgotten, ladies and gentlemen, the orangeades and toothpastes, but I am sure that at some point someone will think about them. And no matter how much you're trying to do with this nice, "they're too small the taxes that are breaking apart" etc., you don't need to be a Marxist economist with PhD, so you know that indirect taxes are unfair and preferably break popular income. A salesman, with whom I was talking yesterday, who told me, "My doctor, 1% of VAT, when you get 450 euros, is a very big increase." That's the truth. Indirect taxes break people's income. And they break it not for the Memorandum Options alone, but mainly because the government's political choice is that it has no intention of intervening in costs. He barely has all the goodwill to increase it. Public costs, public costs are increasing. There's red lines here. There is no bill in the last six months that does not create another secretariat and other poster posts and so on. It is at least five new services created by this bill. All five are irrelevant with the need for evaluation and the Memorandum cheques. It's not just about appointments. You're doing this mainly because of the systemic logic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, because of the celebration. You are doing this above all for the systemic logic that says that the state must be controlled by the party and you are constantly creating new secretaries and new branches, which are supposed to do the work that cannot be done by the public. Anyone who doesn't want to ferment or whoever can't ferment, it's all to blame. Some have rushed to celebrate - it says - because the assessment has been completed, because the account is basically going, as we have said, mainly to the poor in this country and because - it says - growth will come tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, development is not Karanika's cousin to call her on Sunday night to work Monday morning with two and a half thousand euros mixed. Growth is a difficult thing to do. It needs stability, it needs a plan, it needs a stable tax environment, it needs a whole lot of things, and I fear that they are getting out of the range of this government, as has been proved so far. He needs a reliable state machine, which doesn't change every three or a little. I fear that growth is too far away with these policies and will be too late to appear in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u658	Mr Megammustakas from the Central Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u659	Good evening. I want to start my speech by reviewing your political course so far. The conclusion of this review is that SYRIZA may have come out fighting the government, but is legislating a subordinate. Everyone understands why I'm saying it. I will no longer dwell on the lack of plan and programme. I will speak of a lie, because only lies can all you have said so far, and indeed with a view to rounding up some in the government chairs, in order to serve the policy of rescuing, that is, as was the case before, you do the same. We see that in general there is a discrepancy between your words and actions, even in the way you legislate with what you say, even though Mr Papadopoulos said "we are the ones that are legislating." You don't do that thing. Let us not be fooled by each other and, above all, let us not make fun of the Greek people. Then I want to talk about the process that I followed the day before, when you brought the mammoth bill, doing a lot of talk here about hay, which you are feeding the world and not just those of the SYRIZA, but the previous years too. I hope that changes. There are young people in all places who can bring change, young people not only in age but also in mind. I got a proverb in mind. Two donkeys - he says - were fighting in a foreign barn. I watched the first one shouting and screaming to cover the atoms he had so far and the second one shouting in order to serve his narrow-mindedness and stubbornness, as some of the SYRIZA support their ideas blindly. Then foreigners in a foreign barn. The way you go, with the cutter you are actually canceling the operation of the Greek Parliament, with the superstition, with which you actually grant a lot of the real estate of the foreigners, but also the red loans you give them to foreign funds, the country is no longer ours. What do you do with the red loans? You establish organizations that will advise the people who lose their homes on how to deal with it. Do you think that's what the world needs, to hear advice on how things will get better and "let's lose your house, but we're here to take care of you"? Unfortunately, this is what you do, and that makes the world angry. Taxes are not reform. Tax is killing the tax. You've heard of it many times. Even the IMF told you. You've brought twenty-seven new taxes. You increased the ENPIA, VAT from 23% to 24%, the tax rate. You have added extra taxes to fuel, heating oil, pay-TV, fixed telephone, Internet, coffee, drink, cigarette, electronic cigarette, which other countries in Europe are subsidising, because they consider it to be an anti-smoking measure. And you define what a professional farmer is when you do not think and legislate about the farmer. And speaking with many of the agricultural sector, they tell me that this is destroying them. Mr. Jellonis will talk later, and I think he'll tell you better. In fact, all these taxes absorb one wage from its annual income and make the state a major shareholder in all companies. And all this may have been accepted by the Greek, if the taxes were rewarding. But we see hospitals without gauze, without doctors and closed intensives. And because of closed intensities, deaths are growing. We see schools that, by the middle of the year, have not yet worked properly, as they have not been staffed. How do you ask people to pay more taxes? The problem is not the lack of taxes, as I say, but the lack of tax collection. I have here a table from the Electronic Governance Directorate that says that from February 2015 that you took over from February 2016 to February 2016 from 76 million latexes have gone to 87 million. The world has no opportunity to pay its tax obligations anymore. I'm filing him in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios Megalamoustakas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Another problem is the lack of control mechanisms. It is estimated that about 20 billion are lost because of the blockade and tax evasion. What are you doing? You come in and you put new taxes instead of controlling the existing structures. And everyone's biggest problem is the lack of business. And how will one come to Greece to invest, whether Greek small and medium-sized or large investors, when we have a hostile environment? When the political scene of the country is constantly changing - SYRIZA with ANEL, of course, we have absolutely no cooperation - and when economics and tax maps are constantly changing, how will an investor come? When the border is still closed, the line in Idomenis is still closed, with five tents, with five tents, how will it come? And when loans are not given anywhere, while the banks' recapitalisation has been done with state money. You can't get a loan as a new businessman from nowhere. I will give another table from the Serres Chamber, which says that the tax rate is 10% in Bulgaria, 10% in Skopje, 15% in Albania, 12.5% in Cyprus and 29% in us. And VAT is the highest. I'm tabling him in the Minutes, because I don't have time to refer to the rest of the numbers. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios Megalamoustakas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What are you doing? Instead of cutting costs, as the lenders have asked, you increase them. You create new organisations - the IAL, the RAL, the Directorate-General for Electronic Governance - and you continue to build party armies, such as the previous ones, and to smash public money, creating the paths of the past, which we so much say must be solved. And I very much doubt if the exit into the market, which is all about getting new loans and coming to growth, will be used for the real market or given again to create these parties I mentioned before. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. All this when I have not heard any government say that it will certainly be on Tuesday at the Eurogroup, the agreement will have a positive sign. And if we wanted to support it, we do not know whether it will have a positive sign. I really don't understand what you're thinking. I am now addressing the Members and not the Ministers. I hear many of you eat and contradict. I have heard Mr Papachristopoulos say: 'We are talking to businessmen and are told that the previous ones are to blame'. Aren't the businessmen with whom you're talking about the taxes you're bringing and in general all the measures are not going to bring growth? Yes, they will. They're all going to be wiped out. I have heard Mr. Diarah say that he will vote with grief, just like all of you. And I heard Mr. Emmanuelides say that the memorials were brought by others. But you're the ones who keep going, unfortunately. You have to think, think that when you return to your place, after apologise to yourself for what you are voting on, you must apologise to the world that supports you. That's enough of it. All we have to do is step up the disrespect of the world against our faces. Of course we will vote against the bill. And we hope you're seriously thinking about what you're going to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u660	Mr Theocharis has the floor as an independent MEP.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u661	Before giving the floor, I would like for seconds to speak, please, about something that has been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u662	Minister, if you'll excuse me now. He didn't personally address you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u663	There has been an inaccuracy involving the Ministry of Finance, and I have to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u664	Good. As you say the inaccuracy has been said, you have one minute, but strictly, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u665	Less than a minute. There's something about time. In political assessments we disagree as much as you like. We can't argue about the evidence. The maturities of the years 2013-2014 increased by 7.4 billion. Between 2014 and 2015, they decreased. I've filed the evidence in the House. You spoke about 2015 and 2016. In January 2014, they increased by 1 billion 68 million. January 2016, 800 million. This Decision is addressed to the Federal Republic of Germany. February 2016 390 million. The evidence is that. Tomorrow, in my speech, I'm going to present everything to you to have full evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u666	Minister, are you committed to tomorrow, or are you going to testify now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u667	I will table them tomorrow in my speech and will discuss them in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u668	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u669	I would like the floor for less than ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u670	I don't think so. The Minister had some arguments. You're the one who filed some evidence. The Minister had his own evidence. Don't confuse the evidence. Mr Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u671	No, no. I'm the one who testified the painting. I didn't get my own evidence. I didn't build them. It was 76 billion and there were 87 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u672	They're raising the due date. We don't even know what time we're talking about. Here the state has been hiding the delays for three months, from December of the year to March, which have suddenly increased the state's delays towards private individuals to improve the deficit. Are we kidding? Half a billion dollars due to mocking the Greek people that we have a primary surplus? Ladies and gentlemen, these are known tricks. You do it better than anyone else. You guys are great. Today you are, we are confronted with history. So let us look at things with a little more vigilance. First of all, you are in the most difficult position a Member can come. Firstly, why do you vote for things you claim you do not want. You grieve the time you vote, Mr. Dimitras told us. It saves you, apparently, that you are unconscious. Because any Member who has a conscience resigns. He's not voting. He doesn't vote against his conscience. Secondly, why do you vote for things you don't understand? Difficult and you drink and smoke and drink coffee, Mrs. Theopevtatos told us and all Greece left. It saves you all that you've made so many times. You've compromised so many promises, you've made so much lies that you've managed to dim the world. Thirdly, why do you vote without hope? I see it in your eyes, I hear it in your speeches, even in your expressions. You don't think you're doing good in the place, in the citizens, or even in your friends. You know how you destroy them and lead them to despair. It saves you that you feel complicity. By voting, since last year, you have taken off one - one of the steps of cohabitation, without return. You see, the wet in the rain doesn't scare her. You have taxed, taken reserves, cut pensions, completed privatisations, made new privatisations, handed over the world's loans. Will the handover of decisions on the fate of all public property to foreigners harm you? Is this country's enslavement gonna matter to you? You're going to raise HISBIA to people who won't be able to pay him. I'm appealing. ENPIA, Minister, must not exceed 50% of the taxpayer's income. Not in the confiscation. You cannot leave a pensionable income after the ENVY less of which we give PSURs. Increase the tax on the "Bone" and do not abolish the taxation of the player's profits. As a result, you lose 5.5% of revenue. Change it now. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to vote on a fund in which we do not have control, we do not know what we are giving, we do not control what is privatised. International financial control was eighty-one years, from 1897 to 1978. You enslave us for ninety. Here's a bond from then on to remember how you got us. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned bond, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here you go. We're back here. 1897. See it! [[Applause from the wings of the river and the Democratic Alliance PASOK - DIMAR]] The only positive thing, if it is done, is that public property goes away from the hands of politicians, those who use it for their own benefit. And in this, SYRIZA is no different from the previous ones. I think he's doing better. What should be done? Firstly, to assess what we give him the fund. Secondly, the original purpose of it being to record it fully through the Stock Exchange. Third, set the annual property valuation process, let's see if we're stolen. We're gonna give the property to the strangers and we won't know if they're stealing us? Fourthly, to prohibit the privatisation of immovable assets. Fifthly, the decision on what can be privatised by the House or even the Ministerial Council following a report from the Fund on the suitability, maturity and maturity of the assets. Six, the state's targeting the fund for the dividend he wants to get. This is how we will have fewer taxes and a more social state, for which - I am glad to say - you are being cut off. Seventh, the fund has a full management capacity away from party influences either in recruitment or in anything else. Only under these conditions could I vote for it. Ladies and gentlemen, hypocrisy goes a long way. We are all aware of this - anti-population and co-population - that we are establishing a new supranational body with this bill. His control is not at the narrow limits of our country. Therefore, under Article 28(2) of the Constitution, we are obliged to do so by an increased majority of eighty Members. I didn't hear it in the morning, pretext talk about constitutionality. You did not tell the Greek people, neither the Communism nor the Opposition. Where did so many prescribers get lost? You're all accomplices to silence. You're all accomplices in the group. At least I dare say so. The government is afraid that, if he says so, he will have to ask for the assistance of the Opposition or have to go to elections, since the agreement is not going to pass. The opposition wants the fund in depth, and he's afraid he'll be forced to give consent. He doesn't want the elections in the background. So, you're accomplices. I'm clear. I denounce the unconstitutionality and say the terms under which I would vote. Not like it is now. Mr President, I would like to say a few words on personal grounds. I'll be a minute off. This step, here, is sacred. It welcomes the extra-parliamentary ministers to account and inform the House, not to demonstrate their ignorance and impartiality. Mr Alexiadis continues to be misled. It brought us here yesterday a series of papers on amendments by the previous government and wondered whether I was a Secretary-General at the time. I was. So what? I had nothing to do with it, as I proved it. If he does not know the parliamentary procedure, let him not speak better and yet not at the time when he is giving fines to the Committee on Competition and favours smuggling with this bill we are voting on. I'll say it again. I did not accept interventions, not just from the law. The government was legislating to tell us how to operate. Is this how you understand the role of the Secretary-General of Public Revenue? Are you giving him orders for settlements and he can tolerate it? Oh, no, no, no, You even brought us a post that "AUSHI" accused the New Republic of for twelve "rules". Did you see the five before you brought the post? Did you see it? He's talking about a scandal with the information of the Grand Musician.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u673	Mr. Theochari, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u674	I shall conclude, Mr President. Since then you have done it twice with your Government, twice for the Congregation of Music. By Law No.4327 Article 38(2) and subsequently by Law No.4342 Article 53(1). I did not see SYRIZA talking about shamefulness of the SYRIZA government. I didn't see you quit. Things are simple. For one and a half years you have not changed the order you are complaining about! You're co-responsible and suspect! Co-responsibles and suspects! Get out of here or be quiet! Ladies and gentlemen, you believe that, after this vote, everything will be fine and growth will come quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u675	Mr. Theochari, please! You've been over nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u676	I'm done, Mr. President. You told us that didn't happen yet, because last year you were delusional. Wrong. Last year you lied. You have this today, as you dream of "ELDORADO" investments. The reality, however, will come relentless and when it comes, you will have no place to hide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u677	Mr. Jellonis has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u678	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after you have done away with the tax raid and the confiscation of the incomes of farmers, young professionals, small and medium-sized enterprises, scientists, you are now trying, two weeks later, to end all and every Greek household with the indirect taxes, the most unfair ones, mainly affecting poor and medium-sized strata. You change life with this particular bill of millions of Greeks. Only horrors now cause every Greek household with this bill and despair, regardless of whether Mr. Tsakalotos tells us that despair when it prevails in the Greek people is an enemy of the Left. He's causing this despair himself. We understand your exquisite ideas of redistributing tax burdens and such other beautiful ones. But do you realise that the imposition of indirect taxes is far from your left ideology, that it affects our most defenceless fellow citizens, for whom, as you said, we were indifferent? Don't tell me that they were voted in 2015 and they were judged in September, because then I will also invoke your ideological cutter. What, ladies and gentlemen of the League, is this where your cut doesn't work? But you have brought us the budget cut, which will work very well in wages and pensions. This bill will be passed by you, ladies and gentlemen of the Association, from you who went out to the squares, which you yelled at the time, for lifting the bay of the revolution for the sale of public property, for bait then in front of what you bring, for the "no house in the hands of a banker". Now you're giving it all for the ENPIA, who said he was unfair, that it's not correct, that you would take him down. And you come today to use very easy, catchy characterisations against us and vote for an agreement which leads the country to absolute submissiveness. Unfortunately, the Greek people also had to live the SYRIZA version to understand the weight and the syntheticity of the economic and, by extension, the political problem of the country. But only you have caused deep damage to the country and the new generation in particular. I ask you now: where is your national pride? Where did your patriotic ideas go, your national mind, your left mind? And you are now separating the historical time before September 2015. Do you feel that September 2015 is the political swimming pool of Siloam, where you then purify yourself and do not carry the sins of those who promised the Greek people, whom you deceived to make a party, to take the government to set up a regime today, what you are setting up with the state? No, ladies and gentlemen, you are not working in a politically sterile environment that purifys you. Unfortunately, these will follow you much more than the bills that you are bringing us here today. The masks are down. And we see you mourning because it is - he says - outside his ideology, another will weep if public enterprises are sold out, another with heart pain will sign them. One is the act in this case, and indeed bravely: Or vote against or resigns. Something that we did and we remained faithful to our ideas. We didn't sell with political transcriptions for a government chair. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, They're the ones you've got in your ranks. We thank you! Rejoice them! I won't say about the surreal tragedy, because the words have really lost their meaning. I do not have to deal with this because the situation in the Greek people is really very critical to say again what you were saying and what you are doing today. This bill, unfortunately, is the epitome of the complete tradition of an unreliable, subordinated and subordinate country to lenders under your responsibility. The provisions you are proposing are lost in national sovereignty. With this agreement you turn the country into a colony, the new protectorate of Mr. Tsipras - Kammenos. But many issues in this bill affect the core of the rule of law and the separation of powers. Automatic fiscal adjustment mechanism provides for restrictive measures that may reach wage and pension cuts in contravention of parliamentary democracy. And that is how the core of power discrimination is affected. The increase in taxes on consumption also disproportionately affects - as I said before - in breach of the principle of proportionality, the weakest. The purpose of the superstition - he says - is to sell the public and state property of the Greeks. The operation of repayment of state debt with the sales of Greek public property is the most anti-developmental one. And you come now and tell us that 'you know, we will see to it that 50% goes to growth'. I would ask you to read Article 200, page 516, where it says that investment policy includes the procedure for determining the percentage limits of each category of investment. And that's what they're going to make of you. And the gentleman who runs the test in this superstition is the supervisory board, appointed by the partners. This appoints the Board of Directors and whatever decision it takes, through the general meeting, one and only shareholders, the Greek State, must have the agreement of the Supervisory Board. You have tied the Greek state, unfortunately, to the partners, and that is your responsibility. And so that I can come to HIFI and finish, Mr President. We are hearing here about the ENVY that we have reduced the objective values. We'll collect the same, but no one will be charged. Excuse me, who are you? How will you do that? You're doing something very clever, unfortunately. You are raising the scales, all the factors on average 23.5%, and especially for farmers. That's where you did the mug. You've included all the parcels normally in areas. You add them to the real estate, which has so far been exempted, and farmers come, who certainly have a house or one, two parcels, which are over 200,000 and there the increase is over 200%. A farmer who has so far paid for the parcel 2 to 3 euros will pay 6 to 7 euros the acre, Minister. Of the farmers you are taking them again and unfortunately, as I have said repeatedly, where you think you have a financial hole you have found the intermittents, you think that you have found the rich order, which did not pay taxes and that it has avoided tax evasion, tax evasion. On the other hand, the Minister told us about the farmers that they were done to be citizens of this category. You're doing something very clever there, too. A little - very much, the tax comes and is balanced. It has an increase that farmers will pay for, but gradually. You take them with the insurance contributions, 27% on income, plus the subsidies, which were tax-free. Only insurance contributions are 27%, plus 22% -45% tax, already with 60% of its income and subsidies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u679	Mr. Jelloney, please. Already, you've been approaching nine minutes, too. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u680	I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. I wanted to say that you are the 'yes' government at all. "Suble, I give you everything," you say. You've signed the country mortgage and celebrated. And the print you say you want to leave, you probably put it in your right hand, because that's how your co-pilot taught you, as he said in the election.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u681	Mr. Syrgyrgos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u682	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with something that I cannot leave it unanswered in the sense that it concerns us all. There was a lot of Faust's invocation tonight. I think that no one in this Chamber, whether from here or there, even though there may be political rivalries, even though there may be different opinions, is not the same as Faust. This claim, this designation, is improper and unfortunate, in the sense that if one considers how Faust starts, we are wronged by all of us. And it starts like this: "I studied philosophy, legal, theology. And behold me with all the lights, the same baby as the first." I believe that it does not apply to anyone in this Chamber, whether from here or there. Ladies and gentlemen, no one can understand the content of today's debate unless it combines it with the discussions of the summer of 2015. It's a unity. Today's debate is a continuation of the previous one. Then, consensually, the general framework and the agreement were voted on. The consensus was very broad. Many of the speeches that have been made today are a repetition of identical discussions and a report of own concerns which had been mentioned at the time. So what is today's paradox? But, of course, the fact that the current disagreement is coming to replace the last agreement on the whole. But this whole thing, he described and contained everything in great detail, so that they are not now treated as new and weird. The present disagreement seems to some people that it will eliminate the memory of our past consensus, as if this were a sin and will act as a swimmer of Siloam for the so far suffering. I would like to make this point, which is a critical one, because I believe that we need to have a sober debate, without overcompensation and overcompensation. Last summer's binding agreements have time limits. The negotiation - hard and hard, in my opinion, others claim the opposite - must end up somewhere, despite the disagreements that exist between us. The market, for which many are enthusiastic and caring, wants peace and stability. That's where we all agree. In the summer, people expect it to work. Only way is to close open issues and make sure. A prerequisite for the summer agreement of 2015 is the difficult current regulations, uncertainty products. Another is beginning to be seen and I hope it will appear on the Eurogroup of 24. I wish that wholeheartedly and deeply I believe that you all wish it. That is what the government is trying to do. In this context, a peaceful political climate is required. But I didn't find out. The exercise of criticism must also include a proposal, otherwise the political reason is annulled. These arrangements we are discussing are a proposal. However, I have not heard any other alternative than criticism in the context of the broadly adopted agreements last summer. In the short time that I have - I will not take all the time I have, it is time for this, and I think what I have to say, I have said it - I would like to talk about a matter to which I have referred and to the committees, Minister. It concerns Article 52, i.e. the increased VAT on the islands, and in particular the case of Syra. I am referring to this without much detail today, because I have then explained the specific nature of the case. I believe that the relevant provision of Law 434/2015, which was voted on by everyone at the time and established the gradual development of the imposition on the issue of increased VAT, allows exceptions to the relevant critical interpretation. I invite you to consider this. So let it be this summer a breath for a winter urban population. That's the peculiarity I'm invoking. And I close with a word - the key that you all clearly know. It is true of what I have said before and of those who are aware of. I would remind you of the Syros Youth - which reinforces what I am saying - the problems it faces and the people it has to feed. Thank you very much - and I'm sorry - for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u683	Thank you to Mr Syrigo and to save time. Mrs Vaki has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u684	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me start with a point of order. It is of particular interest to note the way in which the debate is currently under way. You have built a Memorandum of Interparliamentary Practice in the past few days, benefiting from its democracy and its temple, the Greek Parliament, and handing over the north to the most black enemies of democracy, which, through these actions, you legalize them. You chose to participate with cries and teratologies. And, of course, it is surprising that your attitude, especially when it is adopted by those groups, which in the past five years imposed 63 billion measures, depleted 25% of the country's GDP, created one and a half million unemployed, locked up three thousand businesses. So, by listening to all this communication orchestra, even the most reliable citizen is wondering what exactly you are trying to do with you. Do you want to create an artificial tension in order to wash away the enormous responsibilities you bring for the governance of the country? Do you not want the evaluation to be closed? Tell us openly. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are voting on is difficult. No one celebrates when taxes are imposed and no one can be happy when some measures are passed, which are borne by the real economy. We should, however, all agree that this bill is the last obligation to complete the evaluation. Its contribution will help to the well-considered transition of our country to a stable framework of social development, in terms of social justice, equality, transparency, transparency, merit, dignity, all of them, that is to say, of the multi-faceted, meaningless, of all the words that you have achieved and cast into the basket of waste. The provisions of this bill are true that it is the result of a painful, persistent and long-term negotiation. You are, however, the last ones who are entitled to appeal to the government for the results of the negotiation, when a few months ago you broke your clothes asking for an agreement with the lenders here and now, at all costs. And of course the alpine impression gives rise to the fact that you yourself shouted with passion a few months ago and strongly "yes, in the memorandum", "yes, in the referendum", "yes", "yes", "yes," "yes," and so forth, take the money" and so forth. And today, with a lot of hypocrisy, you are playing a new role, that of the people and the workers. Terrorism has been heard, lies have been heard: the ENPI is growing, it rains taxes, everything is being sold out, wages and pensions are being targeted, we deliver the country's keys to foreigners. All this rhetoric is recycled methodically not only within this Chamber but also on the set of TV panels by your various TV friends. And, of course, the aim of the hysteria, because it is hysteria, is not to silence the real problems and the success of the left government effort. Because it is really impossible not to recognise the enormous efforts made to start the debt debate at last. It is impossible not to see that, despite the lyrics of domestic and foreign circles, the country has remained standing, the economy has exceeded the targets for the previous year, and now, with this data, the conditions for the exit of risk from the committee status are finally created. And some rhetoric questions - if you want rhetoric. Was the vast majority of red loans protected by mortgage on first residence not protected or protected? Did they or did they not protect basic goods from an increase in VAT by 1%? Is recovery ensured or not, rather than divesting public property? For Luxembourg, the Greek Government has the right to veto, 50% in debt and 50% in growth. It will no longer be the case that from the first to the last euro, which the lenders wanted to see, it will go to the debt. Ladies and gentlemen, the government in this bill respects the basic commitment to the implementation of an agreement signed in the summer and was the product of a clear blackmail and clear pressure. But we must respect this agreement. We put our signature on. Nothing more, nothing less. The aim is to stand up. The aim is to develop the economy by creating decent jobs. Obviously, and taxation does not help growth, we all know that. However, the scope of the tax burden as a whole has absolutely nothing to do with the permanent internal devaluation that the Greek people had submitted in previous years. Because you are responsible for twelve successive horizontal pension cuts. You are accountable for the loss of 50% of the income of employees and pensioners. You are accountable for the collapse of small and medium-sized enterprises due to the recipe for the internal devaluation that you have imposed. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA remains a pioneer in the fight against austerity and remains the head of a vast European alliance against the new sacred alliance built in Europe of the 21st century, which has denounced Europe, condemned it to poverty and, together with thousands of desperate people, drowned in the waters of the Mediterranean and the entire European acquis, the principles and values of European Enlightenment. We are not alone in Europe, nor are we politically powerless. Our struggle and our struggles are a political reserve for all European forces against extremist liberalism and its teratology. Are you aware of what is happening with the extreme right in Europe right now? We will continue to fight with all our forces to overthrow negative correlations and to try to get society out of this story. These are our payrolls and our starting points, and on this basis we will continue to walk together and beside the Greek people, and we will succeed. We'll make it back to page.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u685	Ms. Vaki, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u686	We owe this to a devastated people who rise to the ruins of the social state that you have demolished. We owe it to the new generation, which you condemned in immigration and the worst nightmare that can happen to a new man: it cannot dream. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u687	Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u688	Thank you, Mr President. I think that if I were to give a title to what we have been living since January 2015, it would be: 'Saints for you, deception for the Greek people'. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you who will raise your hand and say 'yes' to all' tomorrow afternoon, which you will say 'yes' to indirect taxes of EUR 1.8 billion on indirect taxes which primarily affect the weak social strata, which you will say 'yes' to the disposal of all the public assets without conditions to creditors, will say 'yes' to an endless memorandum, so you will say all of this - with few exceptions - angers me that you are pleased. You celebrate and applaud the ministers who announce these measures. Applaud each other, rise here at the Step and defend them. Greetings and rejoicing! And you continue to lie again: "The development comes, the launch of the Greek economy" and so on. What can anyone say? I wonder - and I don't think I'm the only one: But why are you so happy, cat you laugh, why are you celebrating when the whole world's been painted black? Twenty-five bodies came here and they made a scream of agony about what you're about to do. Honestly, I preferred the account: 'They blackmailed us, we couldn't, we didn't know, we had deceitful'. It was a lie, too, but at least it wasn't that angry. And - you know - rage is a very powerful feeling, especially when there is fraud. It is stronger than anger, stronger than the frustration and despair that led Greek citizens to believe what you said "then hope comes, we will tear the memorandum apart, we will give you a third pension and increase the minimum wage". But that's where he didn't come, but these came. What are you doing with these today? You create the property of the Greeks. You create the private property of the Greeks and the public property you grant it unconditionally to the lenders. What happened to these 'no house in the hands of a banker'? That's it. There goes the seismism, the announcements made by the ministers and the commitments made by Mr Stathakis that they will not be given to market crows. It's all gone. And those homes who escape the auctions will slowly take them with the new HICP, who has not only been abolished, but have increased the rates on the plots, put the parcels in, reduce the additional tax limit to EUR 200,000. What does that mean? It means extra taxation in the middle class. You'll take them home slowly. You have, of course, taken care that the banks get to the hands of foreigners. The money of the Greeks - those who have money - you have also made sure they are locked in the banks, because we have capital controls, which I do not hear a word about when they can leave. For those who don't want to work, they want to make money in the private sector, you make sure you give them the most stimulus: whatever they get will take the state away from them. Anyone who makes money in the private sector either wears a tie or doesn't wear it. To freelance professionals, economists, doctors, lawyers, farmers, small and medium-sized businessmen, psilicians, patrols impose a tax that kills them professionally. And if there is a little available income to anyone, Mr. Tsipras has therefore taken care of EUR 1.8 billion in indirect taxes. With today's bill, Mr. Tsipras takes the VAT rates second time, increases the registration fee in cars and lorries, increases cigarette tax, beer, alcoholic beverages, coffee, gasoline, heating oil, fixed telephony, internet, pay-TV. I noticed that in the speeches by colleagues from SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, who have not spoken at all, there is no reference to the part of the bill that has indirect taxes. It's a total confiscation of the Greeks' property. You left nothing for anything. And if there's anything left, you've taken care of that as well. Take care of yourself! There's the cutter! And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, how can you be pleased? And since you're creating private property, you also take care of public property. Unconditionally assignment for a century of all public property to a fund, which is controlled by foreigners. And self-destruct yourself. I don't know if you understand, but the ministers won't ask you about these things again. No one in the House will have to ask. They'll do it on their own. And you're happy! You're happy about that, too. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from your new narrative 'growth comes', all you say from this Step is that forty years you have not ruled, so it is not your fault. And I ask you: do you, the 'first time' government, the radical left government with a few right, you forty years, what you said about your current rhetoric, your current policy, your current practice? Did you suddenly become reformers to me? Were you in favour of entrepreneurship? Are you in here defending privatisation, the exploitation of public property, with the participation of the private sector? Where'd you say that forty years? Were you talking about the amphitheaters or the protests? What were you saying exactly? And the ones you're supposed to defend, the weak, the ones you're cutting them off, the ones you're asking for, and retrospectively, dare and call them tax-raisers? The ones you're gonna take their homes, the ones you're gonna shut down the small business? And you're glad! You are therefore pleased to have your parliamentary seats. You will remain in history as the "first time" Left government, which destroyed Greece with a smile! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u689	Thank you, Mrs Asmakopoulou. Mrs Vulture has the floor from New Democracy. She's the last speaker and we're going to hang up with Mrs. Keramea.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u690	Thank you, Mr President. SYRIZA - ANEL A year and a half now she submits sadly her country and people to the torture of virtual drowning only to hide their lies and show that they are negotiating hard. Now, with the country in absolute suffocation, it is coming to bear international financial control, an international financial control similar to that imposed after the war of 1897, of 'Black '97', when the Turks arrived at Domokos and intervened with the Great Forces and gave us a loan to pay for the war compensation in Turkey, so that we would not lose Thessaly. That's the situation today. It's just Mr. Tsipras even overrun Deliyannis! He's been able to get the country's enslavement in a hundred years. And while he has always complained that the country is becoming a debt colony, now a debt colony is doing it itself! And the Minister of Finance, Mr Chakalotos, tells us now that the duration of the commission is longer than the duration of the loan is because the target is wider. Maybe it's the only time they've told the truth. Indeed, the objective is wider: the country's tradition for a century, during which others will decide on its wealthy production sources and its assets. They are currently giving to the 'parents' - that is what Mr Tsipras said - the markets, which would dance in the sounds of his tugs, and the loan. Just, right now, the government is making new baptism. Its name is ‘skins’, ‘requirement management companies’ and ‘paracy companies’, ‘red loan acquisition companies’. The intermediate body, which Mr Stathakis told us from before the elections so far in his last joint interview with Mr. Tsakalotos, has gone for a walk. However, something that no one has noticed - I am not sure, but I think that is the following: Requirement management companies can be based not only in Greece, ladies and gentlemen, not only in the twenty-eight Member States of the European Union, but also in Member States of the European Economic Area, namely EFTA, in the European Free Trade Association. Which countries do they belong to? As long as I tell you one of these is Liechtenstein. The Greeks are therefore established within absolute colonialism and are transferred abroad. It seems to me that you have not noticed that it speaks of the European Economic Area. What else are you going to accept? What about the increase in VAT now? Should we say about Mr. Kammenos, who said that "NAT on the islands does not go as far as I exist"? I have here your programme of September, because I heard your parliamentary representative say that everything was known, there was a deal, and it was so much, etc. Where in here - why is it not January, that is, the Thessaloniki programme, the parallel programme of September, for the September elections - there is something written out of what you are voting on today? Where? Tell me. So, did you say in the September elections that you would give the money to funds? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u691	It's not the parallel we're voting on today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u692	You went to elections and said 'children, please vote on us to give them to the funds'. I will inform you that you are not saying any of this. You say that you will make an intermediary in which you will save the loans. You don't talk anywhere about service loans, just unserved loans. Did you tell them you'd give the services? Answer me. But I don't see any of the architects here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u693	It's just an hour, Mrs. Vulturis. I'll see you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u694	What do you want to say about it being a little more than that? What does the time have to do with it? By the time the ministers come here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u695	Please, Mrs Vulture, do not have a dialogue. Continue, Mrs. Vulge, without anyone interrupting you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u696	Mr Tsakalotos now said on 12 April that we have the option of deciding how we reach the targets as a sovereign country. So what? So he decided on the loan service? And in your parliamentary group, from what the report says, a few days ago, Mr Tsakalots said that the government will have the initiative of moves on the cut-off mechanism. Is that what we're voting on today? That the government will decide? Of course, an amendment has now been tabled in which we have learned that wages and pensions are not excluded. So the government doesn't have the initiative. I would also like to tell you that on 1 September 2015, you were lying again to get the elections, SYRIZA himself with his note about the excess of what you are voting on today, said that in the framework of the July agreement the fund would be based in Greece, its administration and its management will be carried out by the Greek authorities, with institutions limited to supervisory roles and technical assistance. Is that what we're voting on today? Do we vote for this or do we vote in agreement, in essence, on all the members of its supervisory board? Tell me. Because these were written in the September programme and they did not exist in the July and August agreement. So we didn't vote the same thing as it looks. You guys were looking out for each other. Did you ever tell the people, was that thing ever in the deal? On the contrary, in the elections you said about this new fund that its way and function, its internal structure, the Code of Corporate Governance, the possible composition of the elements, its assets, etc., will all be the subject of an independent action group. Today the institutions are confined to roles of supervision and technical assistance? Is that what we're voting on? You have to tell us. In these hundred thirteen pages that were the SYRIZA program of September there is nothing you are legislating today. As also, there is nothing in the July and August agreement. Nor did you tell the world that you would take him to 24% or to red loans you said that you would regulate them in this way. None of this. You said you were going to develop industry and manufacturing. How? With the fall of the cigarette and industrial production? Or have you told them that you will have the line of Idomen closed for two months and will not be transported in the "Transport" chapter? You were clearly lying, and then I'd like to know where Mr. Flambury is, who said we're not selling silver. Where is Mr Kammenos, who said he would drop the government if the VAT deduction were abolished? Where's Mr. Tsipras, who told us we're selling out the OSE? Where is Mr Tsakalotos, who said he would not discuss the OECD toolbox and bring it today? Where is Mr Stathakis, who said that they have never accepted any privatisation and privatised the air we breathe? So where are all these gentlemen, who were lying? And above all, where is Mr. Skourletis, who said he was able - with that he only - to stay in public? Is that what he says today? Did IPTO remain in the public sector, but Mr Skourletis has brought about a legislative improvement in the last hour, from which it appears that to enter the CEO to the IPTO, there must be written approval by the strategic investor? Is that what IPTO is? Look, in my habit, because I do not have time to do so, please for the Minutes and for the history of the future, here is the speech by Mr Kammenos, who said that heaven would have been a paradise if the country had 5% VAT on the islands, and other statements by Mr Kammenos here, and Mr Stathakis' statement that it is clear that he will never negotiate with the Troika. All the lies you've been telling about the privatizations are here about the history of the future. All the lies you've been telling about VAT and your statements are here. And let me give you a speech by Mr. Tsipras 2011 on the divestment of public property, see what you were talking about then for OSE, and of course the incredible lies you said about the concession of the fourteen airports that you bring today for ratification. I'm filing all this for the Minutes. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u697	Thank you, Mrs. Buddhism. Mrs Kerameros, the last speaker for today has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u698	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a brief point of order. In this bill the circumvention of the procedure went another way. The bill numbers four thousand four hundred twenty-one pages. I do not know why colleagues are talking about seven thousand. No, it's four thousand four hundred twenty-one. He was sent to us at 11:30 a.m. Wednesday night. The debate in the committee began at one noon on the next day. Even if someone hadn’t slept, he should have read three hundred twenty - seven pages an hour, all night without a break. And I say, just read. I'm not saying he's going to study. I am not saying that the often incomprehensible text should be understood. I'm not saying to assess the consequences. I'm not saying she's ready to talk. I say, just read. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, by hand in the heart, did you read four thousand four hundred twenty-one pages on Wednesday night? The answer I think is obvious.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u699	The body of the bill is a hundred forty pages.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u700	And yet this is such a serious piece of legislation, which will affect our lives, our children's lives, our granddaughters' lives for the next century. And the government did not even have the elementary equilibrium to allow Members to read this piece of legislation before coming to Parliament. And I go through the contents of the bill, which is dramatic. And it's dramatic because the measures that are included are extremely painful and were totally inappropriate 15 months ago when you took over the country's governance. Because with mathematical accuracy they will lead to new painful measures, to further recession in the real economy and - I fear - to gradual impoverishment of the country's productive and creative fabric. And why the exchange for all this today is an uncertain, blurred, future and conditional debt arrangement. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this piece of legislation finds negative points, for which New Democracy is voting against it. For the sake of economics, I will only stand by three of them. Firstly, the introduction of new additional taxes, secondly, the introduction of the so-called 'cutter', and thirdly, the establishment of the so-called'super-fund'. First, the imposition of new additional taxes. Let's take an example. Let us see how the everyday life of Yannis, a young man who graduated from school, lives in Syros - the home of my dear colleague Mr Syrigos - is looking for work. Let us see one day from his life, as this will be shaped after the measures proposed by the government in this bill have been passed. Yannis wakes up in the morning and starts picking up calls for work. But the phone will cost him more precisely after the new measures. He's getting on the internet to continue researching on finding work. But that'll cost more than that. He borrows his parents' car to go to the supermarket. But gas too, it's going to cost more than that. He's going to the supermarket, and that's more expensive with the new VAT increase. He's coming home. He's making coffee. And coffee is more expensive. He's going to help his father with rooms for rent. But there is no soul, because these rooms, too, become more expensive. It opens the ERVIA notification for the rooms. And the HNVY is more expensive. He comes in tonight and comes out for a beer with his friends. And beer's more expensive. And the electronic cigarette gets caught, because it's trying to quit smoking, but that's what you're making it more expensive! This, ladies and gentlemen of the government, will be a typical day for Yannis, every Yannis in this country, after your new, additional, unnecessarily inappropriate tax raid. And I assure you, the list I mentioned with the new taxes is not exhaustive - you know it better than me - it is just indicative. And all this, why? On the one hand, because the disastrous management of the economy by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and the endless negotiation created budgetary gaps. On the other hand, why did the government choose to fill these budgetary gaps in how? With extra taxes. Because the government is ideologically obsessed with everything that is developmental, creative, productive. Furthermore, the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Dombrovskis himself, who said that imposing more taxes, against cutting costs, was the choice of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Secondly, the introduction of the cutter. The fact is that creditors insist on the establishment of this automatic cost-cutting mechanism. What does this insistence prove? It proves two things. Firstly, the economic inefficiency of excessive and irrational tax increases. Why? Because tax increases do not mean a corresponding increase in revenue. On the contrary. And secondly, the insistence of lenders on this new cut proves the unreliableness of the Greek Government. I should like to remind you that there is a deflection mechanism from 2014. So what's the point of establishing a new cutter? But because this new cutter isn't the same. He's different. He's permanent, he's automatic and he's horizontal. So in your own governance, because of your own management failure and the confidence deficit that you have created in the relationship between lenders and government, automatically and horizontally, if there is any negative discrepancy in the implementation of the budget, I repeat, unnecessarily, automatically and horizontally, wages and pensions will be cut. And all this without the House even having to meet to decide as it is today. And third, ladies and gentlemen, the superstition. And I explain why one might wonder, "But well, does the New Democracy vote against the superstition?" Yes, ladies and gentlemen. The New Republic which openly and practicably supports privatisation, which will naturally vote in favour of the privatisations within this draft law, which supports the private initiative, which strengthens entrepreneurship, which creates conditions for attracting investment, is, above all, voting against the excess, above all because the minimum, necessary safeguards are lacking in order to safeguard the national interest. I'll be honest. We need to be concerned about the fact that the state has not been able to make effective use of its assets over time. But here, ladies and gentlemen, this is something quite different. Why? Because we are faced with an unprecedented transfer of almost all the assets of the country, because the Minister of Finance alone will be able to transfer future public assets to this fund. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A bit of your tolerance, Mr President. Because all these assets will be managed effectively by lenders, without Parliament's control and without any accountability. Because this allocation lasts for almost a century, ninety-nine years in fact, while the loans in the third memorandum, which we mortgage on, expire on average in thirty-three years. So, in short, we admit as the Hellenic Republic that both to achieve the programme and to return to growth and get out on the markets and to pay off our loans by 2049, as predicted, yet almost all of our country's assets will be mortgaged until when? Until 2115! I repeat: until 2115! And while in the third memorandum of August last year there was a limit on public assets, which would be transferred to the excess, EUR 50 billion, but that threshold does not exist now. There is no limit of EUR 50 billion. He's gone missing. There is no longer any quantitative restriction on the data to be transferred to this excess point. And that is why we have not heard a word from the government. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, when your head hurts, you get painless. You're not cutting your head. When the structures of the state do not work, you improve them. You don't deliver the keys to strangers. Ladies and gentlemen, this piece of legislation shows again the irresponsibility, bilingualism, the inadequacy of the SYRIZA - ANEL government. The country needs to change page, it needs to change policy mix. Most taxes lead to a further recession, a downturn in the economy. We need a policy with fewer taxes and, above all, with real incentives for growth and job creation. And this policy simply cannot be served by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u701	Thank you, Mrs. Keramea. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-21-S1-commons.u702	The meeting for Sunday 22 May 2016 at 10: 00, on the subject of this House's work, is to continue the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Urgent provisions for the implementation of the Agreement on budgetary objectives and structural reforms and other provisions".
