ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Of the twenty-one topical questions will be deleted thirteen on the basis of an impediment from the competent ministers and will be redefined for discussion. In the course of the procedure, I will read out the deferred. We will begin with the first 1116/11-7-2016 topical question by MP I Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, concerning the incident with refugees on a cruise ship in Mytilini. The Minister will answer Mr. Theodores Dritsas. Mr. Katsafandos, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, on 12 May, on the eve of the Eurodam cruise ship in the port of Mytilini, an incident was created which made the tourism and the cruise shipping companies very bad. Two immigrants tried to board, reaching the paradox point within the port land area, where the necessary security measures were implemented. There was an incident with the cruise crew. They were abducted by the immigrants and did not allow them to board the cruise ship. This was a very worrying fact, which apparently noisy of all the tourist agents involved in the cruise. This is also an opportunity to ask you a question as to whether there are any appropriate security measures in all the ports of the country. I believe that the issue of cruise is a national obligation. It is a tourist activity, which could benefit the country very much. I think there is still too much room to support this tourism product. I also think that through this whole situation, which we are experiencing in the global environment and around our region - because recent incidents in Turkey are incidents that can strengthen and help move the cruise to the country - we will be able to help them with the appropriate projection, which I think has been the case recently and the cruise people have asked you to do. You were asked to take initiatives so that there would be a better projection of the cruise's tourist product on our part. I therefore believe that it can be a field in which we can fight hard and bring very serious tourist and hence economic results. The cruise has been hit mainly in the eastern Aegean. You know the islands have fallen traffic of the 80 percent cruise and to be more accurate, more than 75%. You know that all these strikes by seafarers have caused very serious problems. I therefore think that we need to stand with due seriousness and deal with the problem, given that there is a fall in traffic on the cruise compared with last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u4	Mr Colleague, thank you for the question, but I think that you are raising from an incident a broader issue which is not linked and which does not have the dimensions that you give him with your question and presentation. First of all, the cruise doesn't fall. The fall in the islands is more linked to the fall of the cruise in Turkey and to those trips and to the tours of the cruise ships that included visits to the islands and Turkish coasts that have now stopped for the known reasons. That's the reason. Otherwise, the cruise generally in our country and in 2016 has a growing trend, as it had in 2015. It also had a relative restoration in 2014 in relation to the significant downturn in 2012 and 2013. So this is a brief picture. And, of course, none of us are concerned, because we are all really trying to develop the tourist product, and through the development of cruise ships, to have a growing trend. That is what the Ministry of Tourism cares for, and we take care of it. And we're always in cooperation with the relevant associations. These days, in fact, we have announced the establishment - it will start to work - of the National Cruise Commission. However, the fact that you are pointing out, this fact, I would like to tell you that neither a degraded situation reflects nor is another incident, as you say in your question. It is an incident that on the one hand I am glad to see that this is the case, that things are as safe as they really are, that the only point that could turn out to be this incident. Because I say this: because the Port House - which you are well aware of its inadequacy, professionalism, the systematic effort made by its officials to policing the sea borders, but also control the ports - did not even record this incident. In other words, according to the official reports of the Port Authority and the other competent authorities of the Port Authority, and on this arrival of this cruise ship, the ISPS Code and additional measures, such as those of 24 February 2016, were established in a special plan of police and order measures specific to cruise ships, with units of the Port Police, with exercises and measures of order and personnel development, with the CRLs, with the port security offices at key points in and outside the port, with the customs control, with the participation of customs officers, with entry and exit controls. And, of course, there are also police officers and customs officials and the Port Authority. In fact, there was also a floating service on this ship when it came and was berthed at the port of Lesvos in Mytilini, which supervised the maritime anchorage of this cruise ship. Doesn't it bother you that this incident was officially not recorded? The next day, the agent actually informed the port office with a letter that this happened, namely, that two people, on the same day - may have been the same and were already arrested in this area by forces of the Port Body and removed - attempted, manifested their intention to board a boat. So no one reported that this incident happened, neither the crew nor anyone else, except the agent the next day and after the ship had departed. And just because everything is controlled, they have become absolutely understandable, as it was very normal. And it didn't even have to be called the Port House, as you say in your account. Port doesn't know that. But I respect and accept your account. The crew members themselves didn't let them into the boat. This is a unique incident, which we do not know, because it has not been officially recorded. I still agree to discuss it, because I respect you. However, it did not cause any concern. I will tell you in my denture how many assurances of congratulation we have from states and associations of security that the Port Authority provides to the Greek ports, especially for the cruise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the fact that it has not been mentioned in the Port and that a collective effort has been made to keep the issue low is not something which is bad or something that is unprecedented. Secondly, if there is such serious control over so many of the services you are telling us, how have these two refugees been able to reach the area forbidden? Didn't anyone check them? Were they invisible and passed through all these checks and all these services? I'm not here to sow fear. However, I am here to think, in order to have the logic of preventing it, which can actually help us not to come with much greater and more difficult situations. As far as the cruise is concerned, Minister, I want to tell you something because you said the cruise was going a lot better than it was last year. Here I have some official figures, according to which in 2014 Greek tourist destinations had 14% of Europe's market. Last year we had 13% of the market - and I am not saying that - and the revenue for our country through the cruise in 2014 was EUR 510 million, last year it was EUR 480 million. That is what the market says today. Since last year there has been a drop of 14%, and for June alone, the damage which has reached 12 million euros has reached 12 million euros. I say again, Minister, that's not what I'm saying. These are called marketmen, people who deal with the cruise. They are also official measurements by the International Cruise Organisation. Finally, what has to do with the committee which you set up last Thursday, the National Cruise Coordination Committee - something that has to be done - we are talking about a committee of twenty-eight members. What the people and bodies involved with the cruise have asked you to do is finally to be a functioning body. Of course, today, everyone involved in this attempt to convince you to become this committee, differentiated and said that the twenty-eight members are too much. A lot of them, in fact, have nothing to do with the cruise and the tourist product. How can a committee with twenty-eight members operate, Minister, which should be as flexible as possible? If there is concern or not, all of us here in this Chamber must strive to go outside that our country is a safe destination. I am pleased that there are other countries which recognise this. But don't tell me that the refugee picture in relation to the cruise in our country did not cause a problem and that is reflected by the fall that arrivals in the eastern Aegean have. Don't tell me that there was no problem with regard to the cruise, because you yourself went out and made a public appeal to the seamen who were in danger of not entering the port of Piraeus. Minister, we are talking about a port, which should normally be a 'home port' for the cruise, is a port of 'transit' even today, because we are not here to talk seriously, and we have not decided that this is a national product that we must protect as an eyewitness in these difficult economic circumstances. You yourself were the one who begged for begging the port workers to stop the strike so that the tourists wouldn't carry their luggage because they didn't know where to go. That is the reality, Minister. This year's over. We are in mid-July, but at least prepare for next year, because we cannot waste time. Many things should have been done yesterday for the good of the country and not wait until tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u8	Dear colleague, if you want to ask a question about the cruise, do it to be better prepared and talk about everything. But not on the occasion of an incident, as you say, two people who tried to get closer to the lanes, to give birth to such a debate. I'm not trying to keep anything low. The dignity of my thought requires me to dwell on the matter with its dimensions. You want to raise it? Grow it up as long as you want. Do you want to generalize it? Generalize it as long as you like. It is not possible, however, when a question has an object, to extend to where it no longer fits. In short, you go to "go out of the whim fly". Hey, you can't take it off. In any case, I am telling you again that it is small since we visited the entire government, with the Prime Minister, Israel and we had the intergovernmental meeting. And recently, shortly after, in Izmir. In Israel - which you know how much weight this state burdens on security issues - both at the hourly meeting with the counterpart on this visit, and then at the working lunch with the two Prime Ministers, with Netanyahu and Alexis Tsipras and all the ministers, Nietanyahu himself, over and above the relevant Minister, stood very specifically at this point. And when he was informed that I am the political leader of the Port Authority, he said to me: "I wish and should express my congratulations to you for my government and to me personally, because I have been informed and we are following this issue, that the Port Authority ensures full security, with rules that are fully guaranteed, for the citizens of Israel. That is why we are taking part in cruise trips." Nietanyahu said so, the counterpart said so, the relevant ministers in Izmir said so, when we visited her, on other terms and for other reasons. In any case, all the reports we have are saying that the security rules in the Greek ports are respected. Awareness? Attention? Indeed, continuously. You never can and you mustn't be reassured. That's true. Is there any evidence, however, that the rules are not being complied with, that there is no security to raise such issues and, indeed, that the cruise is being affected? But don't you understand what you're doing for no reason, just if anyone believes your words? Cruise companies are obviously standing only on the basis of facts. In any case - I tell you again - the trend for this year's cruise year is growth. Indeed, competition is a great deal. That doesn't mean anything. Indeed, the designs for 2017 have started from now on. The relevant Ministry, the Ministry of Tourism, is responsible for this. To conclude, I would like to add, just half a minute, Mr President, that there is, above all, migrants and refugees, who are currently temporarily staying on the islands under restrictions and under control, a slight tendency to flee. In the latter period, twenty-six incidents have been recorded with the ferry, not the cruise ships. There are other spaces, completely guarded, etc. In short, an incident, as you call it, cannot have the generalization you want to give it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, MEP Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis is requesting permission from a few days' absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u10	The House therefore approved the requested permission. There are two topical questions to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Theodos Pelgini. First will be discussed under number 1099/6-7-2016, second time question by the MP Argolida of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the conversion of the School of Vocational Training (SEK) Epidaurus to the Public Institute of Vocational Training (DIEC) of adults. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you know that under Law 4386 the Schools of Vocational Training were abolished, but in special cases, these schools were also able to become public IEKs for special groups of trainees. In the question I have put to you, I refer to the School of Vocational Training of Epidaurus, which has some very interesting features - I think. First of all, it is a school that trains over a hundred and twenty students, has twenty-three staff, but most importantly, it has the unique expertise in Greece, which provides certification in the specialty of Belissomia. At the same time, it has the unique specialty, which comes under the Ministry of Dairy Education, while at the same school the expertise of Lithoxia, which is one of the very interesting, especially in these difficult times, is a specialty that is served and heard by many students. So the request is very specific. At a time when lifelong learning - particularly in specialised social groups such as the unemployed, such as single-parent families, such as children of a luxury family, such as people with disabilities - is of great importance, it is important in schools, which, from practice, have shown that they are entitled to claim a continuation of their function, to be able to give them this possibility. I must tell you, Minister, that in many cases the products which the students of the individual departments have produced during their training have received prizes and have been discriminated against in international competitions. So I sum up: The Epidaurus Vocational Training School - with its infrastructure - with its staff and the attractiveness of trainers for lifelong learning, especially in the specialities that I have described, plus one more, the specialty of rural tourism - we are calling for it to be transformed into a public IEK so that it can continue to contribute to regional and rural development, not only in Argolida but also in the whole of the Peloponnese. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u13	First of all, a comment irrelevant. Instead of this "stop", which has become the "extreme" infinite - there is the infinitely best aesthetic "produce", an infinite second. The "stop" sounds very bad, but it's been in the catapult now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u14	Depends on whether it's instant or prolonged.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u15	I'm telling you that the "production" means the same and it's more euphoric. Ladies and gentlemen, with a recent provision, which we voted on in March 2016, we abolished the Schools of Vocational Training (SEK), an institution which was not accepted by society. The fact is that only four schools operated from the ninety-five which were intended to work. In this way we have taken a step towards streamlining the multiplier of the system of vocational education and training and, above all, avoid early school leaving and early training in non-formal education. Of course, completing the studies of those students and students who were studying at abolished schools will continue with the same rights, as they began their studies. It also provides for the conversion of the abolished CVT into a Public Institute for Vocational Training, the CVT, for special sensitive categories of population, to adult graduates of compulsory education following a decision of the Minister of Education. Indeed, with regard to the Epidaurus School, which operates - I must say - with great success, with four specialties, the stone-family craftsman, the dairy and cheese industries, the apiculture craftsman and the cutting-sewing crafter, the Secretariat-General for Lifelong Learning and New Generation has shown from the outset interest in both the specialities offered and serving practical needs of the wider region and the efforts made to operate it by the local community with private donations. For this reason, since 2015 there has been an IEC to establish an IEK Epidaurus with a sheet of the Official Journal of the Government 2004/15-9-2015. As the school never operated as an IEC, but continued as a CEC, if the CECs are abolished, it can function as an IEC on the basis of the 2015 FEC with its already specialities. I want to reassure the students, the teachers and the local society of Argolida and, more generally, the Peloponnese, that the school will continue to work unnecessarily. It goes without saying that whatever training structure works positively and with growing dynamics, we support and strengthen it. Our aim, honourable Member, is to upgrade today's multidimensional technical and vocational training, by restructuring a public and free, adequate and effective system of post-training vocational training and training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u17	Minister, I am pleased that we have produced or produced, as you want to say, a good news, if I can interpret your answer correctly. I understand that based on the pre-existing FEK for the creation and establishment of a public IEK, the anxiety that exists in students but also the anxiety recorded in the document of the school director just ten days ago, in order to transform the School of Professional Training Epidaurus into a public IEK, takes a positive response on your part. Consequently, we can give the positive fact that a school, which in practice has proved to be legitimate to claim its presence in the wide range that the country of lifelong learning needs in specialised social groups, will continue to offer its services. Please, if I have understood correctly, repeat it in your dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, there is no reason for me to speak. I would simply ask the honourable Member, because they are closer to the Argolida society, to take this decision from the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Minister. The outcome of your question is positive, Mr President. Here is the sixth question, under number 1082/4-7-2016, by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on ensuring the necessary equipment to operate from September, the five ready school units in the Municipality of Rethymno. The State Secretary, Mr. Peglerin, will answer. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Do you understand, Mr President, Minister, if, following on from the previous question, I do not receive a positive answer, what will happen here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u22	We'll have an intra-traditional problem! Regulate a positive response.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u23	Minister, with my question, I would like to take note of an issue that exists from last year. Specifically in Rethymnon, there are four school units ready, two high school and two high school schools, as well as one municipality, and in order to join programming and strengthen the school roof of the Municipality of Rethymno, we should also have the equipment. It's not enough for the buildings. Of course, according to my information, programming for teachers has gone ahead. We want your assurance that within the next few days, which is necessary, we will also have the equipment. Let me note that these schools were ready last year, but because there was no preparation - you were certainly not at the Ministry, you took over those days - they did not work because of a problem on the city's school roof. That is why we call for these eight hundred seventy students' seats, which in fact cover these school units, to be able to strengthen the school roof of the municipality of Rethymno. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u25	Your Honor, first of all... May I also mention the distinction between 'first' and 'first'? 'Firstly' is 'basic', 'first' is time. I say it because they often get confused.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u26	We have a learning process today, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u27	I came over from the ministry for that. However, in advance I can tell you that I will be positive in my answer to the question you have raised, Mr President. Let me repeat that the Ministry of Education has been included in the national part of the Public Investment Programme in the supply of laboratory electronic equipment for school units with a body implementing the Building and Material Infrastructure, but care for the equipment and improvement of the logistics infrastructure of primary and secondary schools falls within the competence of the municipalities. Therefore, funding for equipment and logistical infrastructure comes mainly from the funds of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction. In addition, similar actions related to the equipment of the Ministry of Education's training facilities are implemented by the company "Creative Anonymous Company" through the Public Investment Program of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks to which the competence has been transferred. In particular, although you do not mention in your timely question the school units for which the newly built buildings are intended, I would like to inform you that from the data available to the relevant department of our Ministry, the Municipality of Rethymno are ready and able to operate since September, firstly, the Municipal School of Gerani and the High School of Asimopoulou, which is relocated and, secondly, the General School of Asimopoulos, the 4th General School of Rethymno and the 5th High School of Rethymno, which are newly relocated. As regards ensuring the necessary logistical infrastructure for the operation of these schools, in the case of the relocation of training equipment available is transferred to the new teaching centres. In the case of newly rehabilitated schools, it has been ensured that equipment is provided by the «Occupational Anonymity Infrastructures». Two competitions for coke metals and table seats are already under way. They are already planned and will be located in the warehouses of the building infrastructure in part from early September 2016 until December 2016. It is true that the two school groups had to be delivered and operated on the basis of relevant contracts in the school year 2015-2016. However, the municipality of Rethymno informed that the contractors had requested an extension from the technical service of the municipality due to technical problems encountered for which they were not responsible. Finally the administrative receipt of the school complex Asimopoulou, High School and High School, from the Municipality of Rethymno took place in April 2016. Asimopoulou High School was relocated and operated on May 9, 2016 thanks to the efforts of the Municipality of Rethymno to gather the necessary equipment from other school units in which there was a surplus, as well as equipment - specific offices and wardrobes of teachers - sent by the OAS for the 2nd Professional High School.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u28	Minister, should we leave the rest for your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u29	I'll say it all together. I won't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u30	You know, we have a problem today, because there is also a timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u31	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, many information, but in order to avoid confusion, I will be able to reflect on it. We have five new school units in terms of infrastructure. For both, as you have rightly said, technical equipment has been ensured - coal, tables and computers - from the previous school units relocated. However, there is a need for three hundred strands, six hundred chairs, forty-five panels and sixty computers, to complete the equipment of the five schools. Eight hundred seventy students are in total the capacity of schools. We're talking about six hundred, about what they need. The answer we want is to the question: In September when the bell rings, will it be the equipment at school? That is the question, and I want an answer to it. Because your answer was a little blurred. You said they'd surrender from September to December. It's totally blurred. So we want to answer the question if when the bell rings, it will be the tables and computers in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u35	It will be, Your Honour. It will be. But let me tell you something. The battle we are giving this period for schools all, general, technical and vocational education and special education is to work in September, since the first day, with the necessary equipment and teachers in their place. You know that for thirty years we have lost that bet. This year we will succeed. You should know and you should welcome the fact that books are already in schools. I think this is a sample of how the ministry works, how efficiently. But I'm telling you that the schools will be ready to operate with the equipment and the teachers in their place. I don't want to go into the details. I think I'm covering for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Minister, for the brief time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, don't you tell us these questions that aren't going to be asked, so we won't wait here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u38	At this point I wanted to read a communication to the House, but to go in this order. Minister, you'll be waiting a while. They will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the relevant ministers, first because of the blockade by the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. Uranias Antonopoulou, due to the workload, the fourth under number 1132-12-7-2016 top question by the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Stavros Tassos, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the withdrawal of the decision to reduce professional schools (EPAs). Mytiline. Eight topical questions will not be discussed, which would be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Paulakis, and the cause is the Minister's workload: The third, with number 1101-7-2016, is a timely question for the first cycle of the MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Health on the problem at the Hospital of Amaliada. The sixth under number 1098/6-7-2016 a top-level question for the first cycle of Piraeus, Union of Centres, Mr.Theodoras Megalonou, Minister of Health, on the reflection of the subscribing and subscribing of the Zakynthos Hospital. The ninth under number 1003/14-6-2016 topical question of the second Piraeus Parliamentary 2nd cycle of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Health, concerning the operational problems of the anti-cancer hospital "METAXA". The tenth under number 899/23-5-2016 topical question of the second question of the New Democracy MP Christos Boukokorous to the Minister of Health concerning the exclusion of Volos Hospital from the ESDP programme. Eleventh question under number 708/28-32016 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Health, concerning the problem of the General Hospital of Lamia. The second under number 5192/5-2016 question by MP II of the New Democracy Republic, Mr Gerasios Giakoumatos, to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the "Mandzavinateio" Hospital in Lixouri. The third with number 3970/15-3-2016 question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health, on problems in the operation of the operating rooms of the General Hospital of Elefsina "Thrias". Also, due to the impediment of Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Dimitrios Vitsa on account of a workload, the fifth will not be discussed under number 1072/29-6-2016 timely question of the second cycle of the Member of Parliament of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence on the situation in the Greek Defence Systems. Due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, Mr Kountoura, who will be outside Athens, will not discuss the seventh question under number 1056/28-6-2016 of the Second Cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism regarding the completion of the work of Marina Meslokologi. Due to the obstruction of the Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr Panos Skourletis, because he will be outside Athens, the eighth will not discuss the eighth under number 1048-26-2016 topical question of the second cycle of MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr.Kosokalis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "the disastrous and unjust demand for the payment of a superfluous and unjust fine to businesses, which had been closed during the crisis and are now asking to be reactivated". Due to the blockade of the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr.Sias Anagnostopoulos, which will be outside Athens, the first question will not be discussed under number 5920-6-6-2016 by the First Vice President of the Parliament and Deputy Prime Minister of Athens of New Democracy Mr. Nikita Kaklamanis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the committee with an exception of rewrites. Finally, due to the impediment of the Minister of Culture and Sport Mr.Aristides Baltas due to unsuccessful commitments, the fifth will not be discussed under number 1130/12/2016 with a top-level question for the first cycle of MP 2 Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the artistic programme of the Athens Festival 2016 and the reactions to the "4" performance by Rodrigo Garcia. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce that the Ministers for Health, Economy, Development and Tourism, Economic and Rural Development and Food, the Deputy Minister for Finance, and the Deputy Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism have tabled on 15-7-2016 a draft law: ‘Adapting Greek legislation to Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC (No. L 127/1 of 29.4.2014), as amended by Commission Delegated Directive 2014/109/EU of 10 October 2014 amending Annex II to Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council by establishing a library of iconographic warnings to be used for tobacco products and other relevant provisions.’; It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u40	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u41	I would like to make three brief comments, Mr President. Because I have been in this Chamber for several years, what is done by SYRIZA ministers has no precedent. You have just read the postponement of 50% of parliamentary control. This is done by system. I don't know what the Bureau will do. There has been a lot of discussion in the Chamber, but there are also limits. The second observation concerns the fact that the eight topical questions raised were the Ministry of Health. The Minister did not say a coma, the State Secretary said. The questions are in the political leadership. This is a point of order and must be taken into account. The third and most importantly, the eight of them concerned regional hospitals. Mr. Paulakis is hiding under the system. He's on his way to the fissures. I would like you to inform him that I, too, and the other colleagues, will come here to apologize for the situation in the hospitals before they close. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u42	Mr Colleagues, your comments are kept by the Bureau. And since you are concerned with this because your question is not being discussed, I hope that you will have the answers you are asking for from the Bureau. There are three topical questions that will be answered by the Minister, George Karugalos. The first question under number 112-12-2016 of the First Circuit of Chania, the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Antoniou Balomenakis, will be discussed to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the application of a identification criterion to the recruitment of staff by the company "FRAPORT S.A.". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as we know, the concession of the fourteen regional airports of our country to the "FRAPORT" company has been the forced conclusion of an international competition held in November 2014. The current government was obliged to ratify and accept this international obligation, in addition, because the July '15 agreement that we all know has also been concluded. Paragraph 5 of this Convention expressly states that there is no obligation on the company 'FRAPORT' to reconcile, to discuss, with the Greek Government, either the fate of the staff who are currently working or the future recruitment. Before, however, the new CEO, Mr Chinel, in a demonstration probably of good intentions, which are not binding, said that he would dominate the Greek element in recruitment. Local communities where airports are located, however, insist that the identification criterion should also be introduced for good reasons. In addition, on this occasion I would like to comment on the fact that there is a clause that future recruitment will be done 'in terms of purchase'. I have the impression that a wording that goes beyond here, effectively cancelling the current legal framework for the industrial relations of Greece, and certainly goes beyond what the government wants to see established, maintained and developed in Greece, the supremacy of collective agreements. I would therefore like your opinion on what can be done in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr Colleague, and respect for time. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u45	Mr Colleagues, as you quite rightly said, the political framework for the transfer to the 'FRAPORT' of this airport is well known. As you know, these privatization issues are being handled by the ICT. But that does not mean that we as the Ministry of Labour do not care about the issues you have raised. Right now at the heart of the negotiations with the institutions is the need to restore collective bargaining, so re-regulation of the market through social and labour rights, such as the European social model. Obviously, this also concerns the staff of privatised enterprises. Therefore, given that we pay particular attention to the reintroduction of sectoral labour contracts, it is my belief that after the end of the autumn negotiations Greece will be able to return to European regularity, since the previous memos were equivalent to a departure ticket and therefore we will be able to regulate the question of workers at 'FRAPORT'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u47	I would like to ask you, Minister, if you have anything specific, more specific, to tell us. I am thinking of the following: on the issue of locality, I understand that this is a matter of negotiation and there is obviously no binding issue. However, with regard to the interpretation of the term 'free recruitment','market conditions', etc. I think - without saying to prejudge anything, because I understand that these are matters of negotiation and issues, if you like, and of correlations and context - that it is possible for the Greek Government to pursue an interpretative declaration in this Convention. If you can look at this in the context of the rules in force in international law, of course, since we cannot make a reservation because it has already been signed and ratified. Because, as is well known, the ratification of the contract cannot be made up of any kind of reservation. However, we can make an interpretative statement that in any case the rules governing the labour market in Greece prevail and in this context I think we can negotiate and claim what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, I think that instead of trying to interpret the terms of the contract genuinely, it is sufficient and gives greater protection to workers to refer to the relevant provision of the Constitution, which expressly states that the general terms of labour relations are generally regulated by law and subsequently by collective agreements. It should therefore be considered that both the law and the sectoral collective labour agreement, when it is possible to agree, can be a sufficient protection for these workers. I am, however, willing to discuss alternatives together, such as those you have said. We can therefore, with great pleasure, work together on this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Minister. Subsequently under number 1117/11-7-2016, a top-level question for the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary Committee of New Democracy Mrs.Akaterini Papakostas - Ironropoulou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the harmonisation of the procedures for the repayment of third-party loans with the third families of the public sector. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Finally, Minister, you have come to answer questions which have been raised by me - I imagine other colleagues with other content, of course - on sensitive issues relating to the everyday life of sensitive social groups. Everyone is now sensitive because of the crisis and its consequences. I think, however, that the three-tier social group is more sensitive, and given the need for the country to build a national strategy for the demographic problem, I think you should have been a step in the right direction. The question of my question, Mr President, concerns the harmonisation of the procedures for the repayment of the loans from third countries in the private sector, depending on the way in which third countries pay off the public sector. Therefore, I have to tell you that in 2006 with a law that we voted here in Parliament, Mr.3454/2006, we gave third-party families the opportunity, Mr. President and colleagues, to receive an interest-free loan of EUR 160,000 from the Labour Housing Agency. Families employed in the private sector had undertaken to pay a monthly instalment of EUR 550 and, in the event of a delay, the interest rate would be 11%. The economic crisis is taking place, Mr President, with what this means for the impact on the family income of the entire Greek society, but more than three families. I must tell you that there is no care for this sensitive social group to be placed - under what regime? - the scheme currently in existence and applicable, Mr President, by the Deposits and Loans Fund, i.e. the event of a delay in payment of the monthly instalment not falling within the 11% interest rate, but up to 4.5% of the rate. The question is: Does the government have a plan, does it intend to reduce the monthly instalment of EUR 550 and the impact of the interest rate delay from 11% to 4.5%? That's the one question. Secondly, if it does not have that intention, will it, at least, harmonise the behaviour, which is shown in the relevant case to the third families of the public sector or not, Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, my colleague, for the question. As I had explained, it was objectively impossible that I could not answer your question earlier. I share, however, your sensitivity and not only to the very specific social issue faced by third parties and multitude families, but also, in general, the issue of the OSCE loans. Since March, at my request, by decision of the Director of the OAED, a committee has been set up to propose a global solution to the issue of loans in general from the OEC. What's the problem here? Apart from the obvious fact that by law of the PASOK and New Democracy the OEC was abolished, and at the moment we do not actually have a body to apply the constitutional requirement for the right of residence, there was also the technical specificity of the loans provided before the OEC was abolished, given that there is a triangular relationship between the OEC, the credit institution that provided the loan, the National Bank and Piraeus Bank and the borrower. It was precisely the object of the committee that we should see how we can harmonise the arrangements that exist in other categories of borrowers with those of the OEC. I hope that, in the autumn, when we are working on the conclusion of this committee, we will be able to table a corresponding regulation, which will probably require legislation, so that we can have the harmonisation. So, on the one hand, I can assure you that before your sensitivity was expressed, we had made sure that this committee is set up, because it is also one of the major issues of everyday life and, on the other hand, that we will bring about regulation within the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Minister. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reference to my sensitivity, which of course focuses on the multitude, but there they include - for the harmonisation of proportionate treatment, such as the issue of my question - other social groups, such as disabled people, such as earthquakes, such as multiples, etc. I would like, therefore, to address the Minister, who said that his own sensitivity and his colleagues led him to decide to deal with the matter, to say that I am very well aware, because I have before me all the relevant information, that the OAED commander - the new OAED commander, SYRIZA - ANEL - has promised that a working group has been set up, which is preparing proposals in order to regulate the debts of the OEK's own funds beneficiaries. Indeed, it has promised that these proposals since February 2016, Mr President, will then be given to the Ministry of Labour, namely the Minister and his team, so that they will be included in a bill in order to resolve the already existing issue. The question is that if sensitivity translates into the fact that since February 2015 that the OAED commander has promised to bring her proposals to the relevant Minister to resolve the problem by the bill and stop worrying and suffering the consequences and economic consequences of all these sensitive social groups, we are at the end of July 2016 and I have heard the Minister say just now that we will have some proposals in the autumn. Because life flows, and because society and families have stomachs, Mr President, and the financial obligations are here and are sufficient, the question is this: at this stage you are looking to find the way, by law, to solve the problem, I tell you that it is what the Citizens' Counsel has proposed. The Citizens' Counselor, I must tell you, has dealt with the matter on several occasions. There is no partner or someone who tells the Minister of Labour that the Citizens' Counselor has said that in order to resolve the problem, in the transition period, until the law comes and the matter is resolved, account can be taken of all the elements of the borrowers, such as the time of unemployment, their income criteria, their family criteria, if they are three-fold, if they are too tense to find solutions to the way in which the loans are administered. I would like to point out, Mr President - and I ask the Minister - that if these loans are not served, will they be sold in funds until the government decides to legislate by means of the relevant Minister? The Citizens' Counsel has also said that a period of grace should be adopted for borrowers four years. And because we are colleagues, Minister, the Greek judges have said that we need to take into account the more specific circumstances and parameters of each borrower and make decisions on the basis of the actual data and situations faced by each borrower. So, I'm saying, at the moment, how do you think you're going to cover up all this population of sensitive social groups until you end up legislating, where you're going to come here to Parliament to see the product of this legislative initiative? Until then what will happen, Minister? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u57	Madam President, I would like to see your personal, good, political intentions from the responsibilities of the previous governments that have created this issue. That's why I talked about sensitivity. Obviously, we are bound by the constitutional obligation on such matters beyond our personal senses. Let me stress, of course, that you are essentially abdicating us because the problem inherited from you, which has actually been the case since 2006, has not solved it in the very difficult conditions in which we are currently dealing with the problem. I told you that our proposal, precisely because we do not see the previous customer logic of fragmentary and individual regulations, is to bring an overall regulation before Parliament. We now have a draft law proposal from the OAED. But we want this proposal to be in line with the more general regulations that we will always introduce to far more effective protection than the one you have provided, the political area you represent, not you personally. I think it is highly hypocritical having created this whole situation at the expense of borrowers to abandon us for inheriting it. We will do our best in a short time, as I have told you, so that the regulation that we will bring is fully in line with our commitments and, above all, with the constitutional requirement for the protection of the weak and the right to residence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Minister. Next, the third, with number 1133-12-2016, is a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Ioannis Delis, concerning the fatal accidents at the quarries of the regional unit of Drama. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. There are times, Minister, when class exploitation, the exploitation of the labour force, leads to extreme consequences. It leads to the workers' death. A few weeks ago, therefore, within a few days in the regional unit of Drama, we had two fatal accidents at work. It is an area in which we have a strong mining and marble processing activity. In two marble quarries in the Drama region, two workers died. Of course, the working conditions in the quarries, as well as in most workplaces in our country, are on their own. In this area, it is not just wage cuts, especially for workers. It is not only the optimisation of working hours, workers, individual contracts which are constantly increasing. It is also another aspect of this class exploitation, which is, of course, health and safety conditions and non-compliance on the part of the employer with its obligations to meet these needs of workers. Failure to observe leads many times, as we have said, to many accidents at work and several times to death. At the same time, on the State side, the competent supervisory, auditing authorities, such as the Labour Inspectorate, the Health and Safety Committees are subject to a dangerous degree. It is important to say here that the Medals Inspection, which is responsible for control, has based Thessaloniki and its responsibility throughout Macedonia and Thrace. So you understand what controls can be carried out. Our question, which is also forming as a request, is: What are you going to do to investigate these accidents, to return the responsibility and to meet the needs of the two workers' families? What are you going to do to take the necessary measures to ensure that there are at last those rules and safety conditions for workers, with the necessary reinforcement of the competent state control authorities?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u61	You're right, death is the most extreme phenomenon of exploitation. In this case, the competence of the mining inspection belongs to a special body of inspectors that is not subject to the Ministry of Labour, but to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. All your comments, however, on the undersubmitment of the control mechanisms - and those of our Ministry and those of other ministries - are also valid and we are trying to deal with them as far as we can under very difficult conditions. For example, the only recruitments of permanent staff, in addition to the OAED, to be made at the Ministry of Labour, will be in the Labour Inspectorate and under legislation that we have included in the insurance bill, we provide for the possibility of moving staff from other bodies of our Ministry, precisely to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate. And because we want not only to investigate the obvious in terms of the competence of our supervisory body, which is the investigation of working relations, I told you that this strange distinction we have inherited from the past on health and safety at mines is not the responsibility of the APRC, the Labour Inspectorate, but the Special Chamber of Commissioners of the Ministry of Energy and the Environment. However, because I had given a mandate to investigate, as in any fatal accident, the case in depth, here we found that the worker who suffered the fatal accident, which took place at 9 a.m. in the morning, was declared in the ERGAN system thirteen minutes earlier, at 9 a.m. rather than 13 minutes. It may, therefore, have been contrary to the legislation, namely that it had not been declared as a worker, which means that there may be other responsibilities, if, for example, they had not taken care to equip him. If it had not been declared officially, it would not have had the appropriate measures, if necessary, health and safety. This issue is being investigated by the Labour Inspectorate and it is clear that if we find that this is the case and it is not a tragic coincidence, and there will be sanctions and the dossier will be updated so that the family of this missing person will also have additional legal rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Minister. Mr Delis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u63	Probably less. In relation to the last thing you said about one of the two fatal accidents, it is up to you to look into it, to look into it, to see what happens anyway, because what we know is that in most workplaces there is a regime - to say it - far-reaching working conditions. Of course, our question was addressed, Minister, and the Ministry of the Environment, because we know that the Medals Inspection belongs there. We have also tabled a written question, of course, and the answer may be written to us. In any case, what is being asked by the Minister is, of course, the government and no, it is not a personal question. You said that there would be recruitment in the Labour Inspectors' House. Amen and when! The point is, it's going through time. These services are really broken up and it is no accident at all, and on this ground, employers' arbitrariness rises. But there is one side, Mr Minister, which we would like to raise in particular in relation to the marble sector. It is a sector which, unlike most sectors of the economy in our country, has been aware of particular growth in recent years which, of course, has brought to investors a great deal of profits, to capitalists in this particular sector. However, we see - and this is coming to disprove, if you wish - your declarations that with growth we will also move to welfare in some way for the workers - that this development, which is taking place in the particular area of development based on the export of the marble, does not mean any growth for the rights of workers, for their wages, for their working conditions. Equally, these working conditions and these slashed workers' wages confirm what we are saying, namely, that growth will go against the ruins and atrocities of labour rights and conquests in order to walk. We see this as very characteristic of the issue of this sector in Drama. Of course, we would - and we call and ask you - for an effective investigation of both accidents where we had two dead. Responsibilities must be attributed, because we know very well that, many times, the employer has many and various ways of loading all this into carelessness or negligence of workers. We believe that the Ministry has a responsibility and must insist that the responsibility lies where they really belong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u65	We have never said, because it is not the case and the whole historical reality proves it, that the growth of the economy automatically brings prosperity. That is precisely why we are talking about fair growth, not only in the sense that everyone should be involved in the benefits, but precisely because it does not mean growth if there is not at the same time protection of workers. I agree on the substance, as I have said many times, with the questions of the Communist Party about the complaint of the working jungle effect. That's right. This has led to generalised deregulation and the crisis. Our efforts so far to revive this situation have in no way reversed it, precisely because the instruments we have in terms of staffing are small, and because now our efforts in terms of the regulatory framework are under way, that is to say, to the extent that work rights can be restored, both individually and collectively, to the level that was before the memoranda. For all I can commit, namely our Government, to you is that we are fully committed to this effort. We consider the issue of labour negotiations to be the most fundamental identifiable topics for us, and in parallel with this, namely the reintroduction of Greece to European regularity, to the European social model, we will do everything we can to ensure that there is undeclared labour phenomena, and that there is a violation of the conditions of health and safety to identify and punish them. That is why we have also entered into a programme agreement with the International Labour Organisation, so that we have the relevant know-how to ensure that these controls are as effective as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Minister. The twelfth is followed by the twelfth under number 1093/5-7-2016, a topical question by the second question by the MP of Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the abolition of the EKT. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, as is well known, the third memorandum has unfortunately included the proposal to abolish the CSCE gradually. Because many times in the explanation or in the apology because you and other members of the government have said that this was a given one, because it was a decision or an agreement with the previous government, I will present to you the text that the previous government has proposed, which, on the subject of the ESS, I personally say, had been the agreement to redesign, so that there is no increase in the beneficiaries due to the reduction of incomes. I am therefore speaking for the Minutes and the English text and the translation, so that this can be made clear. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] From there on, it was agreed, as agreed, that the phasing-out of the CSCE and the first year you predicted that it would be about eighty thousand who will lose the CSCE. It can be seen from the figures that have been made public, the number has risen greatly in the first application of the law, around a hundred twenty - and thirty - thousand. I cannot count on exactly how many people are, because there is this variation in the information that has been made available to the public. What I ask you is - beyond the fact that we are criticising you, because you have accepted this decision, this proposal, the abolition of the CSCE, which was a support for micro-retired people - what is today the government thinking to do, if it is thinking of revising this decision, if it is thinking of compensating for this negative development for the economically weak citizens and how you are thinking of treating in every case, and the issue of the fact that from eighty thousand people have increased to thirty-three thousand, the number of people who have lost for the first year the CSCE. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. On July 11, 2015, Mrs. Gennimata said: “You have an order for a solution. You have a duty to move quickly, effectively and without further delay and hesitation. The Eurogroup must not be completed piously and fatally for the country, without an agreement'. And you yourself, Mr Kegeroglu, said: 'What does the referendum mean? 'Yes' to leaving the Eurozone or something more, such as exiting the European Union?'. You all remember that the relevant provisions for the CSCE were voted by encouraging such tension on your part and voted on by you too. Therefore, these provisions know that they were under your own pressure and there is no point in wondering what that means now. It is all you said that in the face of the risk of the country being removed from the European Union, we, as a government, had to agree. The EKT was established in 1996, in fact, and planned at that time that was the average income of the population of around EUR 5,208 per year, i.e. around EUR 434 per month, to cover the wide divergence between the incomes of people over 65 and the pensioners, who were only EUR 3,923 per year at that time, i.e. EUR 324 per month. At the moment, we closed with about EUR 663, which is the height of the CSCE, in a way that the 1996 Law itself laid down that it should be observed. Therefore, we must also consider Hardouvel's mail, which was then sent with a commitment from the PASOK and the New Democracy, according to which the Government is committed to redesigning the PASS, taking into account the financial and assets situation of the pensioner and to take into account those assumptions of the 1996 Law, which objectively led to an earlier commitment that this PASS will be abolished. Objectively. Therefore, Mr Kegeroglu, matters are far more different than you can see. We are not satisfied or pleased about the loss of income for micro-retired people. What I myself said in the first debate was that the minimum pensions should be strengthened, instead of giving an advance payment. This is something we have to deal with. But I'm telling you that the e-mail Hardouvelis, which you often all invoke, from your point of view, has increased in twenty years the minimum limits for the establishment of a pension right and from four and a half thousand marks to six thousand marks. Therefore, if we take into account the commitment that it would be 4.5% of the surplus in 2016, you realise - and you know it very well, but the Greek people also listen to it - that the measures that would be taken today would be dramatically and impossible to deal with in the way we are going to deal with them, as I will say next.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u71	If there was not the laughter, supposedly negotiation of the first six months, if there was not this tactic that led the country to the edge of the cliff, if you continued from where Hardouvel's e-mail, which I will give you, in order not to read from Baxwan and from something else, but to read the real thing, the country and you would not have to make such decisions, which are socially analgesable and, in any case, they are not justified. Therefore, there can be no excuse to raise it before the first half of 2015. No excuses. Because the Prime Minister and after the first six months he had said that the CSCE is not abolished. After meeting in December 2014, when he met with a man who had suffered cuts and had said "forty years I am working at IKA, they cut them off, and now we will pay a solidarity allowance" - complaining from a man who was forty years at work - said the Chief of Officers of the then-government Mr. Tsipras: "Now, with the famous e-mail Hardouvelis will cut you off too. Keep it in mind'. And the pensioner said: 'And what should we do, Mr President?'. "But raise your head." And her retired last day said: “We raised our head and voted for SYRIZA and cut our head off! We were cut off by the ESS." Unfortunately, that is the reality. There's no excuse for that. You have to understand that, in any case, it is your decision. We voted for the country's loan agreement, and we did not vote for any of the measures contained in Mr Tsipras's agreement. We told him to bring a deal, but we don't accept any deal. We told him to bring the country's production agreement, but not on negative terms. The seventeen-hour negotiation was nothing else, it seems, only seventeen hours of signatures at what they proposed to him. Unless there were Greek proposals that were of such a character. We have not seen that yet. In any case, in December 2015, the Prime Minister says that the CSCE will not be cut. I have his statements here. “No pension cut...” said this on December 7, 2015, “... but neither will the CSCE be cut. It will continue and be given another three years, otherwise." These statements by the Prime Minister are after the agreement. He's at your disposal. Look, what you said about the EUR 663 and the EUR 665, that the pensioner takes the EKRD, while the pensioner with the EUR 665 does not get it, and so we have to cut the EKR for everyone - you told Mr Katsotis the other day and that it is the builders' fault - it is not serious. Unless you want to justify the reason why you did not give the young people the 13th pension. Because they would receive a pension of EUR 700 and they would be given below. The person who had a pension of EUR 701 would really not get it. And you say "in order to blame the above, we do not give the following". I don't know what that makes sense. But say specific things that are of interest to the world. Are you aiming at some counterproductive measures to support the micro-retired, so that the loss they have to make up for it? A couple who takes 460 euros, the husband and the wife, took an NSA. It took 5,520 euros a year. Whatever you say about injustice, you cut that 5,520. What measures do you specifically intend to take so that it can be replaced? That's the one question. The other question is: as regards what you have missed, the 80,000 who have become 130,000 and are not in the 'bad' memorandum, which all the 'bad' parties have voted for, do you intend to restore them, at least for one year? It's a whole year. Will you restore them? That is the second question. What it may mean is anything else to do with pension, which if we did that, would be different and if four and a half were six, we would leave it. The two specific questions I think will help us to inform both the people who have lost the CSCE. Whatever we say, and you and I, these people are lost and they expect to hear a positive conversation from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Kegeroglu, the government is considering measures to support the low-pension workers and will be announcing them soon. However, we need to see the new advantages created by the social security system, as reflected in L.4387, so that we can finally have a net social security system that supports low incomes for the first time. We have been very critical all the time because we are strengthening low incomes rather than high incomes. We did so because social security had to respond mainly to the weakest. That is our view, and we must all support this. In this context, the Government decided that the reduction in CSR should not be from 1-1-2016, i.e. that the reduction should not be retroactive. The Prime Minister said so and we did so with the law that we passed in June. We must now - and we will do so - take measures to defend low incomes, which have actually been affected by this reduction in the CSCE, but which is voted on as a whole for both 2016 and the coming years, under the conditions that I described just now. We cannot forget the circumstances in which the House voted and our government was forced to agree last year. We cannot forget the efforts we have made over the past period to create a social security system that does not create deficits and strengthens the low pensioners. In the next few days, the measures we are working on will be announced. Indeed, we need to support these people and we will do so in the next period and will soon come that day in which we will, in fact, meet such needs. Thank you for the question, so that people can really hear that the government cares and will never care about those who are economically weaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u74	We're waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Minister. The fourth question will be discussed under number 1086/4-7-2016 of the new Republic MP Florina Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks on the construction of the road for Florina - Ptolemais. The Minister will answer Mr Christos Spirtzis. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u76	Minister, the topical question concerns the road axis Florina - Ptolemais. It is a project which, unfortunately, after forty years of delays, has escaped its real dimensions, development, cultural, health and safety. It is now a matter of honor and enthusiasm for the Florinots, who see that forty years the state has been mocking them and actually treating them as subordinates. We have lost the second 'treno' of the second Delore package. We have lost the third 'treno' of the third Community Support Framework. We have lost the fourth ESDP and now we are almost losing the fifth EPA. Also, to see the alalum of the National Strategic Development Planning and Greek bureaucracy, another crime has taken place in the region: the area has been in the region for ten to fifteen years and has been bleeding every day, because the whole market is being transferred from Florina next to the Skopje market in the monastery, and tens of thousands of euros are moving there every day. And what did the Greek state do? Instead of building the road axis Florina - Ptolemais, he built the road axis Florina - Niki, at the border, that is, 15 minutes away from the squared axis, he made it five minutes. Like telling the Florinos "your market is next door, in Skopje, go shopping there". These are the tragic mistakes, which unfortunately lead to a national drama. So you understand what the dimensions this road takes plus all the rest. You know there's no hospital in the area. Anything that happens, from a simple surgery, a bypass, a "block", everything that has to do with cancer, everything is done in Thessaloniki. So access is difficult. So this axis is a matter of life and death for the region. The question is - and I stop here in the first phase - what about the study and whether money has been committed from the 5th ETUC to build this axis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, you are absolutely right about what has happened in the past. The choices, delays, sluggishness, lack of planning and political will of the governments of the past have unfortunately led western Macedonia to a specific isolation regime which in turn leads to anti-developmental feasibility - if not retreat - even if the region is - or should have been - one of the main centres for interconnecting with the rest of the country, but also with Europe and the Balkans through the rest of the axes. What you have also seen in your question - and I thank you - gives us the opportunity at last to give us a clear answer and to change all of this scene we had for western Macedonia. Despite problems and difficulties, the problem is real and must be resolved. I am presenting to the Minutes, in order to have it, the document of the 'GENNA WATER', which shows what has been done so far by the previous governments on this particular road. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In September 2010, the responsibility for studying and building the axis "Larissa/Kosanis-Kosanis - Florina - Niki" was transferred to the EGNATIO OF S.A. in order to study and build the axis "Larissa/Kosanis - Kozani - Florina - Niki" about twenty-seven kilometers long. In 2011, “ENGINATIA WEBSITE” investigated a solution approximately 50 km long, which maintains and improves the existing route. Next, a new engraving is being proposed for crossing Vernos mountain from the east and for the last kms it has also been proposed to improve the newly constructed national road. This solution was presented to local bodies in September 2011. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President. On 11 July 2013, the proposal to fund studies from the then budget of the Trans-European Transport Networks was approved and in August 2013 approved the cancellation of the previous decision. In December 2014, a document with a full description of the solution in the new administration of Western Macedonia and thereafter, in February 2015, the Region of Western Macedonia states that it is finally in line with the solution proposed by the ‘ENGINATIC WID’ solution to enact the Ptolemaida-Florina section. All of this is a typical example of how central government understood to date the planning for the implementation of a project, without any prior prior or parallel consultation with local government, leading the projects to an uninterrupted "go - come" with the end of their bump and the chronic deadlocks. What have we done? On March 28, 2016, 800,000 euros were approved under the "Guarantee 4th EDF 2012-2016" programme to finance the studies of the Ptolemaida-Florina road axis. On May 20, 2016, the EGNATIA OFF sent to the Regional Unit Florina the improved proposal for a new engraving about seven miles [17 km] for the Sterling Water - Ammochori section, which is fully located outside the lignite mines of Vivia, as you know, and the characterized areas of melting. Finally, on 31 May, the Florina Regional Unit finally agreed with the redrafting of the seventeen kilometres. The rest I'll tell in my dentistry, so I won't waste any time. We've made more moves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the findings we fully agree. I mean, Egnatia, apparently has divided the project into three pieces. He's only taken the study for the Ammochori - Amphidino. The part Florina - Ammochori and Amyntino - Ptolemais remains. Let's just say that that part of the money is going to be found. Bearing in mind that this money is from the development resource. Florina takes over from her own resources. Here I would like to stress that local players, beyond the state, have their own responsibilities. Over the last thirty years, there has been bad design, indifference, etc., whatever you want to account for. But the main responsibility lies with the state. The study will be financed by Florina and by your help. The question is whether we're going to catch up on the fifth ETA. Will 150 million be committed? Because of the 400 million that was the short planning, with a five-km tunnel, it went down to 150 million and a 30% discount, we're talking about 100 million. What I want from you is a clear answer, a meeting with local bodies and a commitment that the study will take place. Egnatia's probably gonna speed it up and get it over with. To commit 150 million of the Ministry's sectoral sectors to join the fifth EAW. I've been saying this for many years. Of the twenty prefectures that embrace Egnatia, only two counties have no vertical connection. One is Florina. Everyone else has a vertical connection. I'm not saying the second. If this connection does not happen, Florina remains a Balkan region. He will not join the European regions. That is what we want from you, a clear answer to the 150 million if there will be a commitment to the fifth ETUC.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u82	I will return to what we will do from now on through the "GENATIA WORD" and through the Ministry. First of all, let me make a clarification. It's not 150 million. It is less than 100 million, with the solution that has been chosen. Secondly, the 'GENATIC LEVEL' proceeds in combined movements. First, it amends the 2013 Decision of the Governing Council on the Vailing Strategy for Study Implementation in the Ptolemais-Florina Section. Secondly, the adoption of a new strategic study implementation strategy in the Ptolemais-Florina section, according to the proposed "ENGNATIA WOD" solution of about fifty one kilometre long, which has the acceptance of the West Macedonia Region in writing. Thirdly, it goes directly on to dedicate a promoted road construction recognition study for the new development of the Black Water - Ammochori section - what you said - already guaranteed the funding of 800 thousand euros. Fourthly, in the same approved allocation and on the basis of the above study, the competitions for the development of all the other requirements necessary for the complete ripening of the Sterling Water - Ammochori section will be prepared. Fifthly, the necessary actions are being taken both by the Region of Western Macedonia and by the "ENGENATIC LEVEL" to promote Ptolemaida-Wine Water studies through the same financial framework. That is why I shall submit the document of the Secretary-General of the ESRB which states it. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is also noted that the last section of the Florina - Niki - as you said - was given in May this year. It's an important project. I understand the consequences that exist. It is not the only perceptive area that has these problems. However, this does not mean that the country's relations with the surrounding countries should not be completed. This applies to almost all our northern borders. I also think that we should abandon the well-known logic we had in the past of overbooking and that we inherited specifically for road construction projects. Mr President, we have found a 250% more programming than the country should have for the ETUC in relation to the road construction projects that need to be integrated. That's a mockery. This policy must be stopped. It's a mockery for the local communities and the Greek people. We must all bear in mind how much money we have from the Public Investment Programme, how much we have from the EWRS or before the ESRB, not to mock the world and have a hierarchy of projects known to everyone and judge the implementation of this section and the prices that we need, but also the timetables that we need. So, to close and essentially your question, I believe that after two to two and a half years of study will be completed and that we will have reviewed within the year and the programme that we found with the new ETUC, we have time to see what projects have not been done in order to integrate this roadwork and not to go back into reasonable fictitious, if you want, budgets, in relation to project planning, whether they are from the ESDP or from the ETUC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. We have come to an end more quickly to the current questions, since this time the Ministers abbreviated their answers. So, before we enter the timely question debate, we will have to make a short break until the Minister, who was notified to be here at 19.00. But he'll be here sooner.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 18/12/24-2-2016 by the Members of the New Democracy Stavros Kalafatis, Nikolaos Dendias, Vasiliou Kikilia, Theodoras Bakoyannis, Mavroudi Voridis, Olgas Kefaloniannis, Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, Theodorou Fortsakis, Ioannis Kefaliannis, Dimitrios Kyriazides, Konstantinos Javaras, Konstantinos A.X. Karamanlis, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, Konstantinos Tsiras and Christos Stakouras to the Foreign, Home and Administrative Reconstruction Ministers, Economics, Development and Tourism, on the subject "Government to absorb European funds from the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund and the Internal Security Fund". Of the questionable MPs, Stavros Kalafatis from the 1st of Thessaloniki has ten minutes in his prototype and five minutes in his denology. Constantine Javaras from Elias Prefecture has five minutes in his prototype and three minutes in his denology. Mr.Ioannis Kefaliannis from Rethymnon Prefecture has five minutes in his prototype and three minutes in his denology. Mr. Theodores Fortsakis, MP of State, has five minutes in his prototype and three minutes in his denology. Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou in Athens has five minutes in her prototype and three minutes in her denology. Dimitrios Kyriazidis, MP Dramas, has three minutes in his protology and two minutes in his denology and Mr. Konstantinos Tsiaras, MP Carditsas, has three minutes in his protology and two minutes in his denology. On behalf of the Government, the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism responds and intervenes, Mr. Georgios Stathakis, with twenty minutes in his protology, ten minutes in his denology and five minutes in his tritology. The Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, responsible for immigration policy, Mr. Ioannis Mousalas, is also involved. Parliamentary Representatives from the parties are from New Democracy Mr. Vassilis Kikilis of the 1st Athens with twelve minutes of protology, six minutes of denology and three minutes of tritology, by SYRIZA Mr. Georgios Psychogios with six minutes and all other Parliamentary Representatives of the other parties with six-minute interventions. From the People's Association - Golden Dawn Parliamentary Representative is Mr.Ioannis Sahinides of the Prefecture of Pellas, from the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR the Deputy of State Mr. Athanasios Theochroopoulos, from the KKE Christos Katsotis of 2nd Athens, from Potamis Iason Folilas from Achaias with six minutes, and from the Independent Greeks Mr. Athanasios Papachristopoulos, MP of Athens with six minutes and from the Union of Kentrons Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, MP of Athens, also for six minutes. The first is the honourable Member, Mr Stavros Kalafatis, who has the floor for ten minutes. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Beforehand, I would like to ask that I use a large part and my dentext, since time is not enough for protology. I could not start my suggestion without expressing my protest, Mr President, that we are discussing a topical question on a very important issue concerning the possibility of using EU funds and not just in relation to the refugee question, five months substantially after the question was tabled. Through the research we have done - and I and my colleagues, of course - we understand that it continues, unfortunately, to be a timely question even after five months of being tabled by the fact - and I hope that you will enjoy the impressions, Mr Minister - that there has been no substantial step forward in the five months since that time, that is to say, that we have tabled the question. I think, however, that they are parliamentary, morally, politically, inadmissible - not to say unacceptable - to have questions from colleagues, from whatever wing, five months after that question has been tabled. There is also a timely nature and, in fact, it is a success - if you like - and the whole parliamentary procedure and it is something that does not honor anyone in this place and in this area. To get to the bottom of the conversation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 31-7-2015 Greece's national programme for assistance from the Immigration and Integration Asylum Fund (FIFG) and the European Union's Internal Security Fund ( Internal Security Fund) for the period 2014-2020 was adopted. There is an amount that has been updated to EUR 509.4 million. The question has been raised because there are concrete signs, evidence - I think, I would not stop readings - of management failure in terms of the use of funds. And, of course, this also has a very unfavourable effect, an unfavourable imprint on the international image of our country, as far as dealing with this very serious refugee crisis is concerned and with the possibility of managing our country's management capacity to make use of funds provided for by Community legislation and because of the imperiality of the government cannot be exploited. Through many months of recurring political management of political - immigration - the government has shown unjustified improper work and administrative inadequacy, so that our country has been given constant warnings from the time of the need for registration, identification and first reception, the creation of hot spots, the threat of the temporary reintroduction of border controls within Schengen, and, of course, it has proved to be obvious that there is openness on the part of the administration to meet its obligations. I will try to say headlines - respecting the time I have - the refluxes that have been in relation to the final structure of the NSRP - I recall that it existed in the Ministry of the Interior, but for too many months - the big questions concerning the establishment of the European Asylum and Integration Programmes Agency - this was actually set up at the end of August 2015 - and I regret what we know so far is that none of these principles actually works, even several months after their formal recommendation. Of course we must stop - because I hear in interviews and in the positions of officials and, of course, ministers - that there should be a phenomenon of burdening, either on the ignorance that exists or on the criticality of the situation, which has not allowed you to be ready for the establishment and functioning of these specific principles, which would help to make use of Community funds. Here I would just like to remind you, in order to have fun with these impressions and say that this is not the case, a statement from the Commission on 2-9-2015, Mrs Bertro, which states that the Commissioner responsible for immigration, Mr Avramopoulos, sent on the same day a letter to the Greek authorities with four areas, including the letter stating that the Commission expects the Greek authorities to apply for emergency funding. In other words, we were beaten by the Commission and told us: 'Come and ask for money for the emergency fund'. Another issue that the Commission raised at the time was the need to complete the regulatory authority that will manage the money coming from the European Union to deal with immigration. Starting on February, Minister, Mr Avramopoulos said that the Greek Government is still not fully prepared to absorb European funds, which, as he said, remained inactive. Similarly, on 4-2-2016, Commissioner for Regional Development, Mr Corina Kretsou told the European Parliament that Greece, unfortunately, did not use European funds to tackle the problems of immigration, comparing the example of Italy, which in time called for the contribution of the funds and has already received substantial amounts. So there's a series of questions, Minister. Since May 2015, over a year ago, when the committee doubled the available funds for immigration, what amount has been disbursed from European funds in Greece? Seven months after the legislative provision in Law No.4332/2015 amending the Code of Hellenic citizenship and the adoption of the electoral decisions required at the end of August 2015 is fully in place the National Ministry of the Interior Final Structure? Was he moved elsewhere? Is the Reception and Integration Asylum Management Agency working? Are there buildings that basically host these structures and ultimately to what degree of vigilance and adequacy are we? It is really regrettable - you know - to describe such a situation, because, if Greece had recommended the special service in time, it could already absorb immediately 4% of the total 2014-2020 programme, which I told you is 500 million, but also in front of 3% of the 2015 money. Secondly, there is the lack of provision of a specific budget line for repatriation and relocation. There is a table in the Annex on financing by Member State dated 10-8-2015, which is a press release of the European Commission issued after the adoption of the national programmes. Greece is not provided for a special fund for repatriation and relocation. On the other hand, such funds are provided for Italy, 3 million for Spain, 2.6 million and for Sweden, 31.2 million. These countries had already anticipated and incorporated in their national funding programme for the resettlement and relocation of refugees and immigrants. There's one topic to us, Minister. I would remind you that the national programme was effectively submitted by the Government on 17-7-2015, by the decision of Commission 5313/31-7-2015, adopted by the national programme. However, in the written answer from 1-3-2016 of the Deputy Minister for Migration Policy in my question, it is stated that by Decision 9607/2015 amending 5313/31-7-2015, which is the decision to approve the national programme on the part of the committee, funds for resettlement of EUR 3,540,000 and relocation to European Union countries EUR 31,765 000 have recently been foreseen. This decision was only adopted on 17-12-2015. In other words, in the National Funding Programme you have not predicted such funding, from the evidence, for the relocation. And I think this also proves the most serious omission that is uncertain or - if you want - a concept that you might have had in the past - I do not know if you have it now - on the need for open borders. Is it unreasonable? Is that your choice? It's something that needs to be answered. I repeat my request for a statement to the House of the National Fund and the EIF, as well as all the comments of the Committee's Committee's amendments and all the committee's amending decisions, as there is no access from the committee's file to the 9607 decision amending Decision 5313/2015, which were provided for in a statement from the Minister for Financial Resettlement and Resettlement. Thirdly, the lack of provision of funding from the European funds for the creation of hot spots. And here, Mr Ministers, oligoria, organisational failure are the features that mark the Government's perception of the refugee issue of expenditure on the construction and operation of reception and identification centres, the well-known hot spots, which are not to be financed from European funds, because they were simply not included in the National Funding Programme. The construction and operation of hot spots - and I would remind you that our country was swept away a year and a half ago precisely on the issue of dealing with these construction and reception sites - was a key reason for giving the excuse to our neighbouring countries to close the border and this essentially leads to difficult decisions across the European Union and to an adverse position in our country. In his written answer to the question I put to the House, the Minister says that construction costs were not included in the National Fund Financing Programme on the grounds that the need to create them was later emerged. I would remind the Minister that the national programme was adopted on 31-7-2015, while amending decisions were adopted in December 2015. It is self-evident and certain that the obligation to build the first reception and identification centres was imposed and assumed by the Government in 2015 and at least in May, when the Committee presented the agenda for migration. So there is another question, Minister: what amount is the cost of the construction and operation of the recording and identification centres, which came from the State budget alone? Fourth point: Financing of FIFG and EIF projects by the EIF. The Ministry of Economy informs us in a specific reply, following a question that I put to the House, that in the co-financed part of the 2016 Public Investment Program, projects financed by FIFG and EIF have been included with implementing bodies of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Shipping three projects with a total budget of around EUR 4.5 million for 2016. With the huge financial burden on the state budget for the management of the refugee issue, the total amount until 2016 for the co-financed projects is only EUR 4.5 million, while at the same time no payment has been made, at least until the end of February, as far as I know from the information we have so far. You need to answer us about the amount of payments made for 2015. According to data available to us, for 2015, the EIF had been integrated into the EIF for some 36.5 million projects, while the corresponding amount for 2014 was EUR 30.2 million, although the migration flows were significantly lower, while in the EIF the total projects were about 8.4 million euros. How many payments...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Comrade, would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u87	I'll be done. I also asked to take part in my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u88	Do you want to use your dentistry too? Take her, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u89	A lot of the dentistry I asked in advance. Let me ask how many advances have been made for these projects. So I'm closing up to keep a little bit of my dentistry. The Minister of National Defence on 8-2-2016 stated that nine hundred and sixty thousand refugees - immigrants have entered and left the country in the last two and a half years, making it clear that the cost for Greece in the last two and a half years amounts to EUR 2.7 billion. The huge financial costs, resulting from the management of the refugee, demonstrate a pre-published report by the Bank of Greece in early February, which calculates the State expenditure for 2016 in the amount of EUR 600 million, based on conservative forecasts. The Government and the Ministers responsible must respond to the Members of the Greek Parliament about the amount in which the financial costs of managing the refugee issue totalled in 2015 and what is expected to be the total state expenditure for fulfilling our country's obligations in 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. We're changing the order of the honourable Members. Mr Constantine Tsiaras, colleague of the Karditsa parliamentarian, asked for and can speak for three minutes now. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, this question, which we are debating today, was submitted on 24 February. You realise that since then a sufficient amount of time has elapsed so that the concept of time is not present. I say this because, unfortunately, in recent years - and we have said so many times through the Conference of Presidents and through the Chamber of Parliament - we have seen a serious deterioration in parliamentary activity. There is no timely question, which I would say - with a reasonable measure, at least from the point of view of the New Democracy Officer, that they should not be discussed in time. I'm sorry to say that. It is a recurring phenomenon on the part of the government, of the main ministers, who either do not have the willingness to come, since the phenomenon extends to the timely questions of fellow Members, or on the other hand despise the parliamentary procedure itself. This is a point which we have made many times and I insist, because we know very well that the parliamentary procedure itself is a guarantee and in fact a quality indicator of our democracy. When the parliamentary procedure is discredited and does not, if necessary, function through the frameworks or conditions which have been laid down for many years, at least since the postpopulation, i.e. since the last phase of consolidating democracy in our country, I regret that I repeat it, but we are starting to talk about a deterioration in the quality of democracy. This, in fact, comes to be strengthened by an event which we saw only a few hours ago, and we have actually heard about it, which is changing the days of the debate on electoral law. While the Conference of Presidents was held last Friday, there is a specific statement - a decision by the plenary of the Conference of Presidents that this debate will take place on Tuesday and Wednesday and that Thursday there is a draft law of the Ministry of National Defence, and this really changes arbitrarily, you realize that there is a serious issue. At some point we need to explain to the House, to the honourable Members and, of course, to the Greek people who are being watched, with what logic these changes are being attempted. If the changes are because someone is in a position to speak today or someone is in a position to speak tomorrow - and I am obviously referring to the person of the Prime Minister, who may not be able to speak on Tuesday or Wednesday, and who wants to speak on Thursday on the bill of electoral law, and I address you, Mr President, because you must be the receiver, in fact, of all these considerations - there must at some point be a message to the government that Parliament is not working on the basis of the will of the Prime Minister or the Government. Parliament has its own operating process, and this is something that we have protected for decades and cannot be discredited so easily and with so much lightness. I repeat: The pedagogical message that is being sent from the Chamber of the Greek Parliament to the Greek society is a message of discreditation of the parliamentary procedure, and we must at some point - I repeat - stand up to the responsibilities which we are responsible for. Last week we had no timely question, as you may know, and many days there is not even a parliamentary function. Since the questions come after a procedure, which should be followed by a long-term wait, perhaps, I will give you some very rapid thoughts on the topical question, which is actually about the fact that in the annual report we submitted to the European Commission - to get into the matter of the topical question - as a country, as Greece in February 2016, Greece submitted a zero clearance of accounts, i.e. no expenditure for payment. In fact, there are statements like that of Mr Moskovis - we have had the opportunity to hear it earlier in the Committee on Economic and European Affairs - who says that until now the Greek Government has not made use of the financial instruments provided for by the European Investment Bank and the ESRB for the creation of infrastructure at the reception points. The selection of actions to be financed is obviously a national competence. There is also the testimony of the Greek Commissioner, Mr Avramopoulos, since 29 June, who says that the government has not submitted any expenditure for payment under the national programmes of the Asylum, Migration and Integration and the Internal Security Fund, the seventy million of which have certainly been paid as pre-financing, but remain completely unexploited. Mr President, we are faced with a very great need for the Greek state itself. Of course, the whole issue with the refugee - immigration - may have been degraded these days and not been the same intensity as it had a few months ago, but Greece still does not exploit the possibilities or tools provided by the European Commission, so that we can call on you to act immediately in order to claim funds in order to ensure that an integrated plan with cooperation with the European Commission can integrate full funding of actions, since the allocation of funds for our country - we know well - is expected to strengthen in the coming years, especially in 2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u92	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've completed about six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u93	I'm closing, Mr. President. Finally, we want to believe that what has, in any case, happened throughout the past period - obviously because of the government's lack of interest - will be a serious lesson, so that in future our country will not be in this position and that we can in a very specific way claim what we can, in any event, either at European level or at the level of needs which our country is in a very specific way recording at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Constantine Javaras, MP Elias, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to raise a very serious, big and acute issue from the outset. Perhaps in parliamentary times it is the first time that greater importance, value and importance of the content of a timely question is the bad way, the anti-democratic and anti-parliamentary way in which Parliament tackles this very topical question. Because the long time that has elapsed since this timely question has been tabled so far should have totally weakened the value, importance and effectiveness of this very serious instrument of parliamentary control. And as you know, ladies and gentlemen, the topical question is the second in order of importance through parliamentary scrutiny after judging the government. So when this instrument becomes ineffective, parliamentary democracy is actually being affected. In a way that the parliamentary procedure itself is unacceptable, and indeed at a time when, unfortunately, they are increasing the messages and the findings that democracy is going through every day in this country is dwindling. And, unfortunately, it's not too late because the Civic Opposition is not responsible. It is not too little, because the Civic Opposition does not defend national interests. It is frustrating, because the government has been evacuated in a methodical way, in a systematic depreciation of democratic institutions. There are ministers who repeatedly oppose justice. There are ministers who do not miss a chance to speak with general res ponsibility for jury judges. There are Parliamentary representatives and also representatives of Parliament who do nothing but weaken this parliamentary relationship, which connects the majority with the minority, which, on the basis of the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament, should be a relationship of creative, dialectical, a relationship from which messages and meanings should be produced that will strengthen democratic dialogue. However, the way in which the President of the Parliament has dealt with this timely question - and I say this with vileness, Mr President, especially to you who am aware of your democratic sensitivity - leads us to conclude very sad findings on the level and quality of parliamentary struggle in the Chamber, which exercises popular sovereignty in a genuine, symbolic and real way. Fortunately, although the government's failure - although this question became necessary at the end of February 2016, it should already not respond to any of the public life news - has deprived it of the meaning, not the cause, but in fact it has strengthened it and made it even more timely, because five months later the reasons for this question still apply. As we have heard from previous speakers, in this area of making use of European Union funds to tackle this unprecedented real crisis, which is related to refugee and immigration - and there is no one in this Chamber who has an opposing opinion - the government, unfortunately, did not take advantage of the financial tools offered by the European Union and, in their position, exploited national resources by reducing and further limiting the opportunities for the government to finance other procedures and activities, which would at least help alleviate the difficulty and the evil treaty in which the people are forced to live. I shall return to my denunciation, Mr President. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis, MP for Rethymno. You have the floor for five minutes, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u97	I myself, Mr President, am not surprised at the time that the government has needed to answer this question, because it is quite simply an indication of the rate of absorption of Community funds on the immigration issue. It is true, Ministers, that five months after this question was tabled and while flooding changes in the management of the refugee, opposition and Greek citizens have not yet been able to learn how much the refugee crisis has cost our country. And does the opposition not know that, but does it not know, Mr Ministers, or the state mechanism? But it's possible. In a written reply given by Mr. Toskas to my colleague Mr. Kalafatis last March on the financial costs of the regular budget of the Ministry of Civil Protection, Mr. Toskas says attributes: "As far as the expenditure on the regular budget is concerned, he only means his ministry "there is no information system for monitoring the expenditure on refugee flows. Therefore...', the Minister concludes, 'the total cost cannot be recorded'. This answer, ladies and gentlemen, condensates - I believe - all the substance of the issue of the use of European funds, that is to say the impossibility of the government to do the basics, namely to record the costs, let alone to record funds for immigration. But Mr. Toskas says something else in his answer. It says that for 2015 it calculates expenditure from the Ministry's regular budget for immigration to about 40m euros. It is money, which has obviously been missing from the main functions of the services of the Ministry of Civil Protection and money, which obviously cannot be replaced by European funds, since they have not even been recorded. What we have been waiting for a long time, Mr Ministers, in order not to lose the citizens in the translation of any technical issues you raise, are answers to two very specific questions: firstly, how much has the management of immigration-refugee for 2015 and 2016 cost to national resources until we are discussing them? And, indeed, costs in national funds, which cannot be replaced by Community funds. Secondly, what amount have you absorbed for 2015 and 2016 of the approximately EUR 500 million allocated to our country? These two questions, of course, have not been answered. And as far as we know, the European Commission has approved a sub-funding for the needs of immigration with about EUR 70 million for 2015 alone. We also know from a question submitted by a New Democracy MEP and from a reply from Commissioner Avramopoulos that Greece in the annual report submitted in February 2016 did not submit any expenditure to be paid. I think, Mr President-in-Office, that you will have to give persuasive answers to this frustration. You should explain to us whether there is a risk that these EUR 70 million will be lost and whether a specific deadline has been set for the submission of expenditure by the European Commission. In order for Greek citizens to have a comparison, as far as your own inefficiency is concerned, we must say here that the neighbouring country, Turkey, with the thousands of problems, the warfare, the attempted coup, has been compromised within the three months, which is the entry into force of the agreement with the European Union, EUR 150 million and has already disbursed the 105 million euros. The second big issue, which is covered by a flawed mystery, is the expenditure incurred by the Ministry of National Defence. I am tabling a ministerial decision of 22 April, concerning the Ministry of National Defence, to join the Public Investment Project Programme entitled 'Refugee Refugee to SGS and GEN areas' amounting to EUR 1 000 000. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. This project was selected to be financed clearly from national resources, because, as you can see, it is not accompanied by any decision to join any of the European funds and, unfortunately, it is not the only one. There are dozens of other examples of this from work contracts for feeding, hosting, transport, relocation and so on. The question, therefore, arises afreshly, ladies and gentlemen, is why the possibilities for financing it from European funds have not been exhausted and the poor Public Investment Programme has been selected, which you know very well that the funds are very specific? And why has the European Programmes Management Agency not been invited to do so? And, finally, I would like you to answer that: This is how the government understands the management of public investment? I am afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that the government's choice to involve the Armed Forces in managing the daily life of the refugee has led to a deadlock in the absorption of Community funds. And here, of course, the government must answer two specific questions: is the Ministry of National Defence between the beneficiaries of the European Migration Fund? If so, why has not not a call for projects with beneficiaries of general staff been published so far? If not, why do you continue to waste resources from the regular budget of the Ministry of National Defence and the Public Investment Program? And what amount has this cost to the Greek State eventually come up? And I conclude, Mr President, with a reference to the question of the education of refugees' children. In about a month and a half, the new educational year begins. Apart from the intentions expressed, the need to train refugees' children has not been presented yet, neither a comprehensive plan nor, of course, the resources through which it will be financed. Here too, the self-evident, the registration and geographical distribution of infantry, school and postgraduate children must first be carried out, with the aim of identifying the needs of support for human resources and infrastructure, the most suitable way of training for these children - that is to say, if it is to be done, with separate schools or within existing areas of integration - and the registration of refugees who could work or volunteer for education and action on the basis of certified qualifications and skills. And I ask: has any of this happened? If not, then from September, unfortunately, we will find ourselves in new deadlocks, new expenditures from the state budget and new government alliances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Next is the Deputy of the State of New Democracy Mr. Theodoros Fortsakis. You have the floor for five minutes, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll use, if you'll excuse me, and the time I have for my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u100	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u101	It has already been stressed by my fellow Members how sad it is that a timely question does not come to a debate in the House, Minister, in the time laid down, but comes so late. I shall not repeat what has been said, but which unfortunately means a very great deterioration in Parliament. But even more regrettable is, in my opinion, that this question, which was not debated when it was necessary, is still timely, because unfortunately no action has been done since then in order to improve the situation. It is unjustified, indeed, that the blockade shown by the SYRIZA Government - if it is known that the economic impact of the refugee issue is enormous for our country, which is in this well-known economic position. According to a European Commission press release of 10 February this year, the amount of Greece's funding from the Immigration and Integration Asylum Fund and the Internal Security Fund, which are known as the European Union's main instruments in the field of immigration and home affairs, amounts to EUR 509.498,000 million for the period 2014-2015. Greece was foreseen as pre-financing under the programmes of the Immigration and Integration Asylum Fund and the Internal Security Fund of EUR 70 million: in particular EUR 33 million in September 2015 and 36 million in February 2016. Unfortunately, however, the Greek Government has not yet submitted any expenditure to be paid under the national programmes of these funds, with the result that 70 million remain completely untapped. In its report, submitted in February 2016, Greece submitted a statement of liquidation zero. This information was provided by the European Commission to a relevant question by the New Democracy European Parliament, Mr Vozeberg, on 27-6-2016, on the immediate availability of European funds to Greece and the country's increased needs. The Committee stresses that, taking into account all funding under national programmes and in the form of emergency aid, Greece is the first recipient of funds. In addition to the start of the migratory crisis, some 181m euros have been allocated to Greece as emergency aid for actions in the mainland and the Greek islands, either directly to the Greek authorities or through European Union and international organisations such as the International Organisation for Migration and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. The allocation of funds in favour of our country is expected to increase gradually since 2018 in the mid-term review of the Immigration and Integration Asylum Fund and the Internal Security Fund. Finally, on 16 March 2016, the new European emergency support instrument came into force to meet humanitarian needs of the refugee crisis, where EUR 83 million have already been allocated to international organisations active in Greece for refugees. Unfortunately, however, the Greek Government has proved to be administratively inadequate and, it seems, without the ability to exploit this aid offered to it by the European Union. For example, it refers to the earlier delays only in September 2015, that is, much after starting the original problem, a year before, the certification of the CSR of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, which is responsible for the coordination and management of European funds to deal with refugee - immigration, while in August of the same year the European Asylum Programmes Management Agency was established. And as long as the government fails, Greece bears the huge financial costs resulting from the management of the refugee. The feature is the pre-published report of the Bank of Greece, which calculates the State expenditure for 2016 at the amount of EUR 600 million. The funds for infrastructure construction are too large, since the costs for open reception infrastructure are estimated at more than EUR 200 million, while the costs of creating the first reception facilities, so-called hot spots, are also estimated at EUR 100 million. I would like to ask the Ministers to answer the following questions: what amount is the financial cost in 2015 for the management of immigration - refugee? What actions has it been allocated to? What is expected to be the total cost of fulfilling the country's obligations for 2016? Why has the Greek Government not so far submitted the expenditure for payment to the relevant funds and what needs is the government going to make in order to absorb the relevant European funds? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, MP for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. If you're kind enough, I'll use my dentistry. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the disastrous policy that this government has in all areas always has two pillars, one being the government's idealism and the other is incompetence. Today we are discussing a topical question, which highlights the second pillar, namely the inability of the government. In particular, we are discussing the government's inability to absorb and manage funds available from Europe for refugee. We have asked you about this since February not only by this timely question, but we have asked you forty-five Members of the New Democracy, especially what you have done to absorb the resources available from Europe, in particular from the ESI Funds. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUOU is occupied by the President-in-Office of the Council.]] What does your answer, which I have here and which you gave in March 2015? All of these pages say: Some money you have spent from the national part of the Public Investment Programme. That is not European money. It says that you recognise that you can use money from the European Structural and Investment Funds. You refer, for example, to the thematic objective 9. He says you've used some money to improve information management systems. It also says that you have made eight months in the municipalities that can be used for hot spots, for example. That's what he says. I am presenting for the Minutes the multi-page answers, which basically say that by March, when you answered this question, you have done nothing at all to make use of the specific funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds. Nothing at all. The Commissioner, Mrs Cretshu, as Mr Kalafatis said, had said. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same time, Italy had already absorbed a very successful programme of EUR 377,6 million for such actions. To be clear, because it's just things. So today, what's wrong with our country? It has 509 million euros available from various funds, namely the Fund and the EIF, it has some EUR 150 million emergency aid and you have received an advance of EUR 70 million. What have you done on this issue, to manage this money and to absorb it? You've done what you know best to do. With L.4375 you have created a special secretariat, a coordinating authority, which you have served, and with your decision, Minister, on 14/4, you have entrusted Mr. Haritsis, who is responsible for the NRP, with the management of these funds in general. That's what you've done. What we're asking today is. Of this money - I repeat 509 million plus 150 million, 70 million advances so far - what exactly have you absorbed and how? I don't want a multi-page answer. A sign that says that, and that, I think it's too much to clarify the answer. I fear - without wishing to pre-empt you - that your answer will show that inability to manage European money for the refugee crisis is a special incapacity that is part of your general inability to manage the funds of the NRP. Because the operational programmes of the ESRB, as we all know, have already been approved since December 2014. In practice, however, twenty months later, they are inactive. The NRP, in general, remains on paper. It started dynamically in 2014, before taking over the country's rule, with the bridge projects. It was ensured that these major projects were bridging, but when you took over six months later, in June 2015, you replied eight hundred and sixteen budget projects of 0.5 billion. What were those plays? It was the big plays.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u104	Fortunately!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u105	"Happyly" you replied. Of course, Minister, that's what you say. "Happyly." But you did, because at the time you had "showed" the cash assets, because there was a credit suffocation, you did it, because the banks had closed down, there were capital control. When you did all this, they stopped working the big projects - "happily", which you say - the world lost their jobs - "happily", you say - "happily" some companies almost fell out and "happily", what you responded must now be covered by the Public Investment Programme, so "happily" there is no state money to do other projects. Thank God, Minister. You'll answer, I'm sure. Let's go where we are today. We are with an ESDP, almost within the programme, which - I repeat - is just paper. What's been on the market from the ESRB? I am tabling a table, which I have tabled before, Minister, which I have printed today and has not changed anything. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] This table refers to the activation of the ESRB and absorption. What is the absorption of the ESRB today? It's 1.4%. I say this because Mr. Haritsis and other fellow ministers say that within the year, they will fall into the Greek economy of 8 billion says one another, 10 billion says. Absorption is 1.4%. We'll activate 50% of the NRP by September. What's that supposed to mean? Now, by the way, 25.2% has been activated. What do you mean, "knock it off"? He'll say that you'll specify what you want to do with that money. Does anyone have to tell you congratulations when, in the middle of the programme, you still have not decided where to make it available? 50%, what do we care? We care how much money they'll get into the market. How much money will they get on the market this year from the ESRB? Just a little. Why? Because you have not specified it, you have not announced it and these things want a procedure. To put forward proposals, to evaluate them, what is of interest is the absorption of the NRP. The money that strengthens liquidity, which comes into the hands of people in the real economy. That's it. I do not know if we will find out today specifically what you have done with the money for the refugee. I hope you'll track us down. I say this because this mixture of your inability and your idealism has cost so far, others say 86 billion, others say 100 billion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. The NRP, Minister, as you know very well, is EUR 20 billion. I hope that your idealism and your inability will not lead to adding to this huge account and that amount, which our country so much needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Asmakopoulou. Mr. Kyriazidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u107	Madam President, I will also use my dentistry and thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u108	I'll give you five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u109	Because I am the last of the speakers, I would ask for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u110	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u111	I would like to say to the ministers that it is not just two hundred sinners, it is three and four, because last February the New Democracy had again tabled a timely question on the refugee - immigration issue. In your theory of laissez passer's open borders that we have opened and waited for you and this topical question since the beginning of February, it was discussed last November and we had all those consequences that have accumulated the refugee - immigration. So it is by system and it is not something that, due to other your obligations, this timely question has come late. Immigrant - refugee, a problem that, with the incorrect strategic management and the constant regressions of your government, has changed to a problem of deep national, political and social, a problem of which you have originally left in luck and fate, and then, when it was swelled and escaped from every control, when - say it popular - you lost the bosula, lifted your hands up and ran and didn't come. When you later realised that you were unable to collect them, you at the last minute hit the door of the European Union to throw manna out of heaven. When the European Union opened the funding lines for better managing the whole problem, you were still holding umbrellas. Following on from what my colleagues have said. One wonders. Was the incompetence and lack of experience of handling the problem where it arrived or was consciously left the whole issue to evolve to this marginal extent in order to start the party with direct assignments and the outraged circumvention of public accounting? But whatever the answer is, and given the sluggishness and lightness with which you handled the whole issue, the only tangible achievement of the government was to baptise all expenditure urgently and not to apply a single line from what the existing legislation requires, with regard to publicity and transparency of procurement. Everything with direct assignments and rough contests, although I think they didn't happen either. But to whom and on what criteria? Awards at what price? Appropriations with guarantees? Answer. Assignments of curiosity and shame, for which the government must bend its head and understand that some de facto urgency, especially at the outset as regards feeding and housing, is well. But now why is this system of awards still going on? Now that you have spent so much time, because you are still struggling with the public accounting and even by ordering a law that you have brought, on the one hand, legalising all the expenditure incurred and, on the other hand, pragmaticly maintaining the nature of the expenditure as an emergency, in order to make the procedure for direct awards to the effect of derogating from the public procurement rules. I am tabling amendments to that effect, most of them late, from January, February, March, April, May and late June. All this by way of derogation. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitris Kyriazides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I come to that. Who is favouring this situation? Who benefits from this unprecedented time-consuming award party? You're supposed to be a government of transparency and something new and special. But you are? Your words in this area deserve you, or are you special, why are you inventing patents and intoxications, which no government would dare to follow, why would they be accountable for political and judicial reasons? Reporting and self-criticism will you do when? Will the Greek people know how, and above all how, the Union's money and resources were made available? Are you really going to answer the question, how much did the people cost laissez foire, their laissez passez - according to SYRIZA - humanity and open borders policy? At last, will you do us the honor of making a cashier and when? Colleagues and colleagues, the money coming out of the Treasury is the money of the Greek people deposited with the public corps with labor and blood. It is money that the Greek Government must handle with enthusiasm and above all be accountable for them. In the same way, it must be accountable for what it receives from the Community and for what it has received and for what it has failed to take. It is true that while long-term funding from Community funds reaches EUR 509 million, originating from the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund and from the Internal Security Fund, you - from what the European Commission said in its annual report for 2015 - submitted a zero clearance. These are no expenditure to be paid and no application for a portion of the 509 million. Instead, you prefer to pay from accounts and budget codes of the State or to receive Community funding in the form of an emergency, without ever having requested you to take part in even 509 million. But why? Is it better in terms of public accounting, transparency and the lack of publicity of the funds in the funding report, which is even less than EUR 509 million? Do you intend to ask and when is this amount? Who will tell us what happened to the pre-financing you received the EUR 70 million? Finally, it seems to me that SYRIZA humanity is one-sided and one-eyed. It moves exclusively in the field of theory and ideas and diges into inability and lack of strategy. He stumbles in front of the public accountant and makes cups in front of legality. But is that how we're going, gentlemen of the government? No one's intentions are questioned in this Chamber. But is it possible, after a year and a half, that there should be no programming and rational management? You haven't landed by the delusion yet? Have you not realised that you must rule the world by rules and by seriousness? Honestly, you must come to your senses. It cannot be possible to absorb funds from the Union, upgrade existing hospitality infrastructure, strengthen state services in logistical infrastructure, and we are indifferent to forge indifferently. As far as the Greek Police and the Port Authority, which have so much benefited from the management of the whole problem, what did you achieve to date? Did you give any support to the security forces' infrastructure? Did you take care of his staff and guard? Nobody cares! Was this added by the need to comply with the health and safety rules at work when you did not provide them with gloves? Who is ultimately responsible for the fact that a significant number of police and port workers have suffered diseases that have disappeared since the 1950s? Why isn't the staff inoculated? Isn't there a need? Is there no humanism, Mr. Ministers? We're waiting for an answer from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u112	Thank you. Mr. Stathakis has the floor. Minister, will you speak for twenty minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u113	Yes, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy, but especially now after the first assessment, has a permanent anxiety, to prove every time that the SYRIZA Government is a failed government based on two basic rules. Ideology and inability. Withdrawal from this anguish, it certainly leads to the fact that ideology and inability naturally entail additional costs for the Greek economy. I repeat for a pluralist time. I expect the New Democracy to present us with a detailed list of SYRIZA's costs. This is the third time I've mentioned it. The EUR 86, 100, 300 billion, as you say, will finally be able to see it once and for all so that we can assess it. Secondly, was the functioning of the ESRB challenged and the absorption achieved by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL in 2015? We found a NRP - for once, Mrs Asmakopoulou, I tell you - which had overcompensations of 140%. Would you make them the last month of the ESRB? That's how the former government worked. He promised every single one what he wanted. You're going to see the NSA in April, and you see we've been through all the projects. We said this to the end, because they can be completed by the end of 2015, they are being transferred to the next period, because they are continuing and they must be completed and they are being answered. Good thing we did it. One of the prisoners. The second "happily" is that our "incompetent" government, in the difficulties facing the country, has resorted to a loan from the European Investment Bank of EUR 1 billion, exclusively for the completion of the NSRF. With this EUR 1 billion, then, funding has been facilitated since August - normal funding - and all projects have been repaid. Last October 2015, we owed no project maker in Greece one euro. We had paid off big, small, middle people. So the ESDP was completed with the success we have had, to be the first country to absorb the NSRF in Europe, in the completion of the previous programming period. I wonder, because where the data is against you, you reinstate this argument. We are now going to the subject of today's debate, which is delayed - I recognise it. From the beginning of 2015 to the first quarter of 2016, there was an explosion that did not exist. A million people have crossed the threshold of this country, seeking a better life in the other countries of the European Union. This European problem, obviously, was not easy to deal with. It required further involvement by the Member States in its solution. In no case, however, can anyone say that, first, the European Union was ready to deal with the problem both at the level of resources and funds, or that Greece was ready, to deal with this problem at the level of resources and management. Let me remind you that the European Union has taken it six months to find the way in which it will finance the infrastructure to tackle the problems, because the money that the European Union has had was about migration outside Europe. It was funds, which were intended exclusively for the financing of international organisations, working outwards. Until the transfer of funds from this type has taken place and the funds are integrated into European Union activities, it has taken a long time. Secondly, did Greece have any management authority? Has the present government inherited any management authority for these funds?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u114	Minister, so you won't be exposed, would you ask the Minister? With all due respect. It's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u115	Well, you'll fix me later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u116	In saying that the European Union did not have a managing authority, it did not have in Greece for this money...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u117	No, I didn't say management authority. I was very precise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u118	...and that there was no mechanism in the European Union...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u119	Don't interrupt me. It's unfair to have a dialogue with you. You'll say it and you'll get the data right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Kikilia, please don't interrupt, because you're having trouble...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u121	You will tell us what the funds that were ready for immigration were in the European Union. You'll tell us which management authorities were in place. You will also tell us which management authorities your government has inherited to deal with this problem. What has happened to immigration and what the impacts and the financial costs on the Greek economy have been. The study is extensive and I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, George Stathakis, presents for the minutes the above study, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] They are the effects of refugees, migration flows in the Greek economy, financial expenditure, revenues, macroeconomic effects, General Accounting Office of the State. In all your questions, the answers are there in this study. How much money was spent...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u122	The answers must be given here, not on paper.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u123	Please. I see you a little prone. I'm just telling you where the evidence is that I'm going to testify to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u124	Let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u125	There is a detailed account of all expenditure in 2014 and 2015 inventories and forecasts for 2016. What has the government done? The Government, as you know, has set up a management authority in the Ministry of Economy and will then manage the two major categories of funding. Two are the main tools of European policy available to the Greek administration. Firstly, it is the Immigration and Integration Asylum Fund, the Fund, with its well-known objectives, support, i.e. hosting structures for asylum seekers and relocation beneficiaries, strengthening the procedures for examining asylum claims, measures for the integration of refugees and migrants, protection of unaccompanied minors. Finally, the programme's objective is to return - voluntary and non-member countries. The second fund is the Internal Security Fund, where its objectives are also recorded. Strengthen visa procedures, border guarding and crime prevention. The two main challenges facing this government. Obviously it must launch all the necessary procedures for identifying refugees and at the same time complete all the actions that are necessary under the agreement we have with the European Union on the management of the flows. In order to serve the authority, natural Ministerial decisions have been issued, etc., the designated authorities are now fully operational. With regard to resource absorption in 2016, the following elements are followed: One Authority the TBR, for 2016, has already published EUR 68.350,000. These are published invitations. These are at the contract stage. Within 2016, it plans to issue 56.430.000 euros. The total for 2016 for the TFS is EUR 125,000, published invitations and scheduled invitations. There goes a fund. The second fund is the Fund. The Fund for 2016 has published EUR 137,000. Therefore, the claim that in 2016 Greece does not absorb the planned resources is unfortunate. Greece will absorb, based on the flow of invitations and their compatibility, 260 million in 2016. We have the cost records. In 2014, the accounting figures were 272 million, in 2015, 277 million and the valuation for needs in 2016 is over 600 million and depending on how valuation can reach up to 683 million. In our programme, there are some 200 million that I mentioned and additional, extraordinary funding. The European Union’s exceptional resources financing for 2016 is estimated at EUR 210 million and the Public Investment Programme has made advances of EUR 400 million for 2016. These are the data for the current year. Obviously care has been taken for both 2015 and 2016 and there are exceptional funding in the regions that have accepted the greatest flows of refugees, as well as the municipalities' programmes, which are also known. The 500 million are in the Annex and I do not need to put it back on the table and concern the two major programmes for the period up to 2020. It is the complete programming until the end of the study, Annex II3/2, the allocation of 500 million to the Fund and to the EFF and how each category of expenditure is foreseen on the basis of programming for the next few years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u126	This is for from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u127	Yeah, that's for from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u128	It's 509 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u129	It's for the whole period. With this - I answer your questions - firstly, the cost of the refugee crisis for 2015 has been estimated. It is fully captured for 2016. The activation of European resources has a clear timetable from 2016 until their full absorption. We have condemned and claimed extraordinary funds wherever that is possible. I said that exceptional funds are also being used outside the government at the moment, i.e. activities carried out on the occasion of refugees. These are extraordinary claims. This image focuses on the one and most important theme, which is extremely important for our Government, namely to meet the needs of housing and care of these people. Costs are one dimension. What is a priority is to arrest that this is a major humanitarian crisis. We will continue to support this effort in the best possible way, in the context of the agreements that we have made with Europeans and Turkey. We believe and are committed to Greek citizens that we will do our best to ensure decent living for refugees, for whom the country has committed itself on the basis of agreements that they will remain in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Muzala, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a part of my speech will be on economic grounds - because I think you are wrong or do not have full information - and a part of it on fundamental issues. Look, the emergency money for 2015 has absorbed everything and has been given to the police and to the port. It's a little. It wasn't what we needed. This is not the government's responsibility. It is true that the European Union was convicted and the money it made was not too much. For 2015, it allocated EUR 51,96 million to the emergency, of which 27,83 million were granted to the state, 24,13 million to international organisations. The international organizations will see them in front of us below. Those of the state you can control. It is legitimate and I think that this is the function that anyone in the opposition or in co-population must have. It's a right. Unfortunately, the other money cannot be controlled, that is, the money that has been given to international organisations, NGOs. That is a matter. We have put it this time and again. As much as we work very well with Mr Avramopoulos and Mr Stylianides, there are huge sums we cannot control. For 2015, therefore, the funds from the emergency funds have been absorbed. For 2016, they have been submitted. In 2016 we have a deterioration. The money that the European Commission could give through these emergency programmes was EUR 210 million. Note now: 59,82m euros were granted to the state from EUR 210m, and 150,62m euros were allocated to international organisations, which we cannot control again. These will all be checked later by the European Commission. We can't control them. We do things so that this money stays in the place. It's hard. It is also at the expense of the economic situation that, based on international standards, an international organisation or a NGOs using the money they give it by spending 20% to 25% on its own administrative costs - that is 25% to 150 million euros - is considered good administration. It's not good for the place that it happened like this. It is obviously not the responsibility of the SYRIZA Government or, if the New Democracy ruled, the Government of New Democracy. They are European ways of approaching the problem. I was involved in these procedures. We've made a lot of effort to change the distribution. We didn't make it. And for 2016, money has been absorbed and the programmes have also been made, which I can assure the others will be absorbed. I assure you - because I have lived it close, and I fully agree with you - on the huge role played by the port and police. They took money. They took money several times, but they didn't. That's true. They didn't generally. I can't get into harder financial waters. I'm not the right guy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u132	For 2016 from the emergency 210 million euros, did Greece get?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u133	For 2016 from the emergency, Greece took 210.44 million, apart from what went directly to NGOs. Of the EUR 210.44 million, 59.82 million went to state bodies and EUR 150.62 million to international organisations. I mean the International Organisation for Immigration, the UN High Commissioner for Immigration.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u134	I'm sorry, when you say "apart from what has gone to NGOs", what do you mean? Has he gone to the NGOs yet?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u135	The DG ECHO is another fund. This is from DG HOME. Let me now tell you something. I always try to be mild. I think that today you have asked a perfectly legitimate question, which has been useful to go - and I do not say it as a accusation - to unjustly well-founded accusations. There's no idea. It becomes ideoscopy on the other side. No one invited them. If someone called, that wasn't Greece. They've been invited by a number of things. I think you know that. I would also like to say to you this: Mr Fortsakis said - he is a university - about the education of refugees and migrants that we will not be ready in September. We won't be ready, Mr. Fortsaki. And anyone who believes that any state that happened to him, March-April, with a population where we still don't know how much he's staying in Greece, in September he'll be ready to train children, doesn't tell truth. You know that thing. What are we gonna do? We have set up a very serious programme which will give Germany a year's time to say 'pre-emptive order'. It's going to be in the camps, it's going to be in the schools. We have secured 13 million for this. The same goes for the recording. I don't remember if you said it or anyone else. We're making the recording quick. Two and a half months after the border was closed, we're almost done with the pre-registration. In Germany - I've told you before - it took five and a half months to do this. As for the sixty thousand people who have been left here and who we think are so many, the correspondence is as if they entered twenty-five days of eighty-three thousand people in Germany. I think that all the parliamentary parties are serious about this situation. I would like to point out that since yesterday, the situation has been differentiated. Events in Turkey will probably have implications for the refugee. In these repercussions Parliament must be united, collapsed and opposed, with retreats and collapsing, with retreats and opposition, to be able to deal with them in time, because the problem can suddenly be difficult. That's not what I'm saying to sow panic. I say this because Parliament's job is to be ready. I therefore continue to ask you - what I do from the outset - for this: the lower tone we use, the better we will be able to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr. Muzala. The circle of the parliamentary representatives is now beginning with Mr Kikilia first. Mr. Kikilia, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, in order to sum up what my colleagues have said as an introduction, I will try to be brief and concise. Before that, however, I should like to say to the Bureau - at the moment it is you, Madam President - that once again we see that Parliament, the procedure and the procedure provided for in the Greek Parliament, is entering second degree. Excuse me, does the Prime Minister's office decide that the electoral law procedure will change from two days to three and announce it by journalists to the parties in this House? For that is what we understand. We were aware, Madam President, that the process will be of the order of two days and we learn that, slightly, because some have decided, it will be three days, in another procedure. Where is that foreseen? And it comes to be added to this: I will remind you that the Chief of Officer's Vice-President Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, by letter to Mr. Voutsi, has asked that the procedures be respected in the Greek Parliament, that his institution and function should not be relaxed. The current question, which we are discussing, Mr Ministers, was very sorry to hear, was tabled by New Democracy on February 24, 2016 and is being discussed today, in mid-July. Is that parliamentary control? Can this work for the benefit of Greek citizens and democracy? The question was raised, Mr Stathakis and Mr Moussala, the absorption of European funds for the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund and the Internal Security Fund, a matter of absolute topicality at that time. Unfortunately, it is today. I'm afraid it's a regularity that came today, because you think it's not the same thing as it was then. However, Mr Muszalas told you today that it is probably not the case that this is not the case, it will not be the case. Excuse me too, five months to discuss something that has to do with the year and a half of your management of the refugee issue? So, what were you waiting for? And you came to answer us after five months. However, the problem remains the same, ladies and gentlemen. That is the truth, that you do not have a complete picture - I understood from what you said to us - neither the allocation of funds and funds nor where they are. Mr. Stathakis, you know that resources and funds are or should be absorbed or should be absorbed by the Port Corps, the Greek Coast Guard, EL.AS, the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism, yours, the Asylum Service, the First Reception Service, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, the Ministry of Interior. All these bodies are acting as they do, without coordination and without a plan, and that is why we are not seeing any results. It's like falling, Minister, someone in a well without a bottom. I would like to remind you - because we as a Qualified Opposition think it is very important to legislate - that you brought in urgent procedures to vote on a bill, which is now a law of the State, Law No.4375/2016, three and a half months ago, which, in order to implement it, had to be adopted fifty-six regulatory acts, all about new structures and your own agency for the absorption of funds. Didn't it ever bother you, ladies and gentlemen, when all this was going to happen? Fifty-six regulatory acts! How would the country go these critical months with the authorities trying to regain their pitfalls? So today, three and a half months after the publication of this law, can you tell me, Minister, how many of these fifty-six regulations have been adopted in order to operate the law you have brought? In reply, Mr Stathakis, what you said, I inform you that, as the European Commission predicted, there was a ready service to manage the funds of the European Union. It was four funds, and they became two. Same absorption from the ordinary budget. This Committee on the Management of Resources at the Ministry of Public Order, which was ready, did not use it and wanted to set up a new authority in the first place, and indeed in another Ministry, the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism as a Special Secretariat, to do what the existing agency has already done. Instead of strengthening the one you had, you wanted to establish another, a Special Secretariat. I would like to inform you - because you are not well informed - that, apart from legislating, there are still no regulatory acts. They only exist on paper and it still has a lot to do with what I see. Do you know or can you possibly calculate from the regular budget how many millions of euros have been lost in these experiments? I am sorry to inform you - because you accuse the Civic Opposition of criticising you of the damage you have done in the country for a year and a half - that the Governor of the Bank of Greece has spoken of 86 billion at first charge of the Greek economy by your political handling of the negotiation of the governance of these sixteen months. So you must answer to him - not to us - first of all for the numbers, numbers and European officials who have repeatedly mentioned the damage that SYRIZA - ANEL governance has done to the Greek economy. Watch out now. The reality is that from the European Union's regular budget - because you told us about the emergency financial needs, what was absorbed in 2015 and what would be absorbed in 2016 - you have absorbed nothing. You have a managing authority on refugee issues. The seats you haven't covered yet. We do not know when to cover them and what procedures. We do not know whether you have found skilled personnel or will be the 'neutrals'. We also do not know whether your own governance has some control over the funding of NGOs dealing with this issue in our country or whether you intend to fund decentralised administration or OTAs. You are voting for an immigration law aimed at managing the refugee. The result is that you slowly dismantle him by bringing amendments from a bill to a bill in order to collect the mistakes of this law. In other words, I would like to remind you that we have fifteen new cases by way of derogation from provisions on supplies of non-publishing contracts, tenders, coverage of posts, etc. by L.4375/2016. What exactly do these provisions help? Can you tell us how many millions of euros have been made available these months through these procedures, which we call opaque and you blame us for that? Mr President-in-Office, this is a very serious matter. It shows how you generally deal with administration in the country. Minister Stathakis spoke of a proportionate research - an advisory study, which has been submitted to the Office of the Prime Minister and has brought us here as your programme for immigration - refugee and how you will absorb funds. It's about theory, isn't it? What I understand, Minister, is that because of your delays, you estimate that the cost of immigration and refugee will be about one billion. You estimate that about 400 million will be taken from Europe, so you charge the EDP - you are prescribing, as you said - 600 million euros. So you are charging the Greek people EUR 600 million at this time when we have problems with our hospitals, our structures, the Greek public, the social solidarity that we should show, precisely because you have fallen short of building up the structures in order to absorb the money that our European partners give us for the problem we have to deal with. That's what I understood. You said it was EUR 600 million from the EDP, Minister. So, not only are we taking the money that our European partners give us and are entitled to the regular budget - it was nothing extraordinary, you should have let the managing authority of the Ministry of Public Order do its job - but you also charge EUR 600 million from our budget to the Greek people, in the midst of a crisis. In any case, I think that you should not shake the finger. And you should come here prepared to give evidence, to know what's going on. Colleagues have spoken about individual issues which are very important. And I would ask you to be specific in your trilogies. First of all, you have seen that we are asking timely questions with great gratitude. You've made five months to answer our question. Unfortunately, it is still timely. Secondly, there is a question of the constitutional order and the functioning of Parliament. We were informed on Friday of a topical question that would be discussed on Monday and meanwhile, you also changed the procedure for electoral law, which was tabled to Parliament. Full disdain for parliamentary work! Thirdly, you are told by colleagues, who are responsible for individual areas, for procedures for direct awards or tenders outside the public accountancy of the Ministries responsible for control, what it is about to do with immigration. You don't give answers. Generalization! Fourthly, beware, good faith we have repeatedly shown as Civic Opposition that we support national effort. Mr Mitsotakis, too, in Europe, has done so at any time, but other colleagues, too, have taken note of the problems of a very great crisis. But we can't forget everything. We cannot forget that you told us, for example, that the port of Piraeus and the Greek will be empty on the 20th of the month. There was a murder the other day. These people are still there at God’s mercy. We cannot forget the announcements about caring for the vulnerable parts of the life of these unfortunate people, for example, who have to do with access to education for children. And the Minister comes today and tells us: 'We will not really be ready in September'. We cannot forget that it is shown by what you are telling us that you have not yet had a plan after a year and a half for how to deal with this major crisis. And in any case, please, since you are making us the honour after five months to come here and answer, to give any element of the advancement, to really know the Greek people and the Civic Opposition that is obliged to control what is going on with their money. Because this is where you seem to be blocking. You do not absorb the money from Europe and you charge more to the Greek people. Everyone tells you. The world has a tombstone, and you're the one who's hidden. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr. Kikilia. Mr Psychogios, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the titanic effort that this government is making to deal with the unprecedented refugee crisis has been described in the most complete way. I think, Mr Kyriazidis, that you have been null and void in the way you have presented things, because you also know the practical issues that exist in the management of these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u140	It's not one, it's not twice. It's done on several occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u141	Okay, please. Besides, normalising the situation in refugee in recent months is the best proof for this. There is full coordination between all the co-legislative ministries, which jointly plan to organise and address this critical and difficult issue. Nevertheless, the New Democracy chooses to be blinded and likes to put forward timely questions concerning the Government's refugee immigration policy. I specifically read from the text of the current question: 'Unfortunately, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, trapped in many months's recurring over the political management of the refugee - immigration issue, has shown unjustified improperity and administrative failure'. I wonder, in fact, whether the New Democracy colleagues have seen or understood what the Greek Government has achieved within this minimum period in relation to the refugee problem. So what should initially be realised is that the SYRIZA Government, having overcome unthinkable objective obstacles, has achieved very important things lately. In view of the economic crisis which has plagued our country in recent years, Greece has been invited to welcome a very large number of refugees to the most difficult economic situation. At the same time, last year, there have been uncontrolled and continuous refugee flows, while we have witnessed the closure of borders, with unilateral actions, from various European countries. In all these suffocating conditions Greece managed something that originally seemed impossible, to manage the issue, respecting the rights of those people who entered our country and to normalise a truly difficult situation, almost from scratch. I am not only referring to the advancement made by the previous government, but even to the advancement made since the signing of the Dublin II Treaty, which had made Greece'storey of souls' and the funds that had come, had not been used. It is not just the previous government's lack of preparation, but it is all the governments from Dublin II onwards. All this, of course, would not be possible on its own, but on the decisive contribution of the Greek people, a people who have shown unprecedented solidarity against the dangers, misinformation and concerted effort to transmit fear, racism and xenophobia. Of course, we must note that both the handling of the government and the public speech, but also at the level of policies, has helped in this direction, because there have not been, as in other European countries, any demonstrations of racism and anti-Saharanism, but also the legislative framework that exists with anti-Rasist law, has been deepened. Also what comes for cybercrime and in relation to crimes of racism and hatred contributes in this direction. In this direction, too, was the Council of Europe's resolution, in which we attended as a Greek mission, admitting that it is a European issue, that Greece has done the best it can with the data of its economic crisis and that it needs support. In particular, with regard to the work of the government, I would like to focus on the following points. According to today's official figures, the number of refugees registered now in our country is fifty-seven thousand two hundred fifty-eight, while the nominal capacity of organised structures amounts to fifty-seven thousand sixty-seven-seven-one. The highly improved picture of the proportion of refugees and posts in structures is the result of a coordinated over-representation of the ministries, which created twenty thousand new jobs in structures within a very short period of time, as well as the Evil successfully evacuated and in a way without conflicts and violence. The situation is expected to be completely normalized in the next few months in relation to both the Greek and the Piraeus - Mr Katsotis, we also had a debate on the Greek - with the completion of the rest of the spaces and the final distribution of refugees across the various hospitality structures. The asylum applications so far and after the EU-Turkey agreement have been adequately and individualised, in line with the requirements of international law and human rights, and this should continue. The newly established Asylum Service is operational and clearly faster, as the Minister responsible said. The creation of open hospitality structures is a major concern of the government to avoid the phenomena of the refugee. Furthermore, it has begun planning a policy of integration of refugees living in our country, as the relevant international conventions and reports of international organisations have drawn up. Already the Ministry of Education - mentioned by Mr Kikilias - has set up a special scientific committee to draw up an integrated plan for the children of refugees in order to join the educational system next year. I could also give some time to quote information about the more general planning and actions of the government on the refugee issue. However, I would like to focus for a while on some issues of the timely question and absorption of the relevant European funds. The relevant Ministers referred in detail to specific figures and figures in their speech. What needs to be made clear, first of all, as far as emergency funding is concerned, is very strict control over the approval of the funds. After all, what Mr Moskovis also admitted to the committee responsible a moment ago, namely that there are bureaucratic and peculiar procedures which need to be followed and which delay the disbursement of certain funds. Also, during your period of governance, there was an inertia and a lack of organisation both in terms of the absorption of funds and in terms of their distribution. The huge refugee crisis came at a point where the state mechanism had subordinated and disstructured services. On the other hand, our government has acted immediately to correct the situation that we have received in relation to the management of European programmes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. In particular, with regard to the national programmes of the Asylum and Immigration Funds - FIFG or AMIF in English - but also the Internal Security Fund - TDI or ISF in English - where your question focuses, the following should be underlined: The amounts of these two programmes are not all available to meet the needs of migratory flows for some basic reasons. The programmes have budgeted actions of high importance, in addition to the funds for refugee, which need to be implemented and which do not concern refugee and migration flows, but concern, for example, the issue of visas to citizens of countries such as Russia. As the Minister said, the beneficiaries of the hosting actions of the national programmes are asylum seekers in Greece for a semester or those who are involved in the relocation process, which restricts the beneficiaries. For the best possible management of the funds, the Management Authority of these two Funds with a Special Secretariat was established in the Ministry of Economy, by working out the system for the management and control of the two funds and by consulting which we are now in the process of amending the programmes for these two funds. In view of the above, the accusation that we are not absorbing money is not at all correct. In view of the above, one wonders when the New Democracy comes and moves the finger in the management of the refugee issue, being either a non-profit-making viewer or a hard critic, as we have just said in other questions. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this: we have said at other times that ideologically things like this can separate us from the management of the refugee problem - and this is not ideology - but it is a situation with national dimensions that we must jointly deal with - Mr Kikilis said so at the end - and to claim without a micropolitical one. As far as our side is concerned, in cooperation with the relevant ministries and with scrutiny as Members of Parliament, we will continue constantly coordinated efforts to tackle the issue in full, by making the European Union assume its obligations both economically and in terms of relocation, but also by not forgetting and defending the rights of refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u142	Thank you. Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr Ioannis Sahinidis has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy should not complain about answering the timely question on the part of the Minister. We are telling them once again that our questions are never answered. After all, on one thing you are right is that you have asked this question five years ago or you are doing it again after five years from today, it will always be time-consuming. The reason is that it is not even in the immediate future that these flows of immigrants, as you have repeatedly said to them, or illegal immigrants, as we call them. We have heard the Minister who has declared weakness - we will call it incompetence - in terms of checking how much money has been given and in which non-governmental organisations. Really, Minister? Aren't you controlled by non-governmental organisations? It's your "magazettes" or all of the constitutional arch, nonetheless, isn't it? Tell me a board of directors of a non-governmental organisation, in which all the parties of the Greek Parliament, except the Golden Dawn, do not participate. However, if you really want to have an image in Parliament of what really is to blame for these flows, as you have repeatedly said, I have mentioned it recently in a committee. In fact, some people have complained that it is absolutely irrelevant to discuss this issue, so since it is relevant to the question of the New Democracy today, I would also mention it to you, Minister. Two months ago I visited the State of Syria and Lebanon. All religious leaders have asked me - because the Greek state has stopped diplomatic relations with them - to call them within Parliament. And after you have ceased diplomatic relations with the official state, I don't think there's any problem in calling religious leaders. I visited Imam, who is a Sunni Muslim and the Greek Orthodox Patriarch of the Patriarchate of Antioch. What did they both tell me? "Beware, those who come to your country have absolutely nothing to do with economic immigrants or in general refugees. While the Syrian state, President Assad, amnesty, are leaving and coming here fearing the retaliations they are going to make to them and their families." So if you really want to have a picture of what is going on, call them here, to the Greek Parliament to inform you themselves, not to say that we have ideas. And we as Golden Dawn, you see we make contacts with Christians, make contacts and Muslims. With regard to the question of the New Democracy, according to the content of this question, the Members are questioning the Government for the incomplete and inappropriate absorption of funds, which, on the basis of the evidence invoked by the signatories, amount to EUR 509,4 million. Here, he understands, the most ignorant of political and national issues, that the so-called patriotism of the New Democracy, which he wants to express, is more about the economic aspect of the problem, which is born of the smuggling of peoples in Europe, since of what comes from the structure of this timely question, no reference or reproach is made to the question of the survival of the Greek citizens, who are faced daily with the irreversible state mechanism. We are once again witnessing the abhorrent neoliberal visa policy, which characterises the party of the New Democracy, a party, which, not long ago, claimed to have a solution to all the problems affecting our country, including, of course, the major problem of immigration. And here, if we go a little backwards in the past, we will remember your former Chief Samaras, who in Zappeion clearly stated that he will remove illegal immigrants - so he called them, too - "we will recapture the cities and take them back". Eventually, however, when he came to power, all he managed to show to all of us was a true person. So everything on the altar of political intentions and moral disfellowshipment. This is the urban patriotism of the New Democracy. But I did not hear anyone in this Chamber referring to the coup in Turkey. Will you tell me, does this have anything to do with that question? Of course it does. Since yesterday, Immigration flows have increased - as you like to tell them - by boats on all Greek islands. We, in contrast, as Golden Dawn, because you together ran to congratulate the democratic prevalence of the 'Sultan' Erdogan, we took a completely different position, not who would prevail - for us whether Islamists or kemalists prevailed in this country, it was indifferent - but because we, as Greek nationalists, are trying to do - and it is our goal - is to weaken it and as much as possible the division in that country. What, though, are the democratic forces that have defeated? We have seen how the Turkish citizens, who prevailed in Erdogan's views, are treating how democratically lynched soldiers were carrying out orders at the time of their duty, we have seen a beheaded soldier in a public space again democratically. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. I'd like your tolerance. Turkey, therefore, was, is and will be a substitute for the Americans and Jews. It is the one that, along with Saudi Arabia and Qatar, is responsible for all problems in the Middle East and the Arab world. Really, how did he not think - and it makes me a terrible impression - that the Prime Minister was the first to provide asylum to Mr Erdogan, when he was returning across Europe on the plane and 'driving door' from England, 'did he take a door' from Italy? How did you not really think about providing asylum to Mr. Erdogan, Mr. Muzala? But here, we have also seen this absurdity: I never remember a military coup in history able to resist the state police. This is where we laugh. What's going on here? That if ever, the non-genuine, there is in future a conflict between Greece and Turkey, we will know very well who will move forward to confronting them, the Greek Police. Otherwise, there's no other explanation. Those who did the coup d'état - and I say all this and you will understand why I say it, Minister - these soldiers who did it, probably chasing the pokémons, what they say, rather than couped. That's what they showed. There was no mood for any coup. It was all premeditated, because we know very well that when Turkey was experiencing problems, it was extremating them and always exterminating them to its neighbouring countries. Greece has repeatedly paid Turkey's foreign policy. Here we are and unfortunately will be confirmed once again. In the near future there will be ongoing flows, migrants for you, illegal immigrants for us. The solution, therefore, and I answer as far as the New Democracy is concerned, for all this and, in general, for all the problems facing our country is one and only: the national government with the Golden Dawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u144	Thank you. Please make all of you better management of time. Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor from the PASOK - DIMAR. And you, Mr. Theocharopoulos, have six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u145	Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss issues relating to the management of the refugee and migration crisis once again. A crisis in which the current government is constantly proving to be unprepared, awkward, without a comprehensive and coherent plan. In your recent statements, Minister, you acknowledged that there have again been delays. Delay in the creation of hospitality, delay and evacuation of the Greek. Your assessment was that about mid-June would have been evacuated. In fact, I asked you this to speed up and be done immediately. There is no delay, because they are not conditions for refugees or the inhabitants of the regions. Today, July 18, a month after he was evacuated, nothing has happened. You said the day before yesterday that a huge effort would be made to speed up the evacuation of the Greek. We do not, however, need, Minister, to reach this limit point in order to attempt these efforts. The unjustified delay has tragic consequences, and this also occurred in the past few days in the incidents that took place in the centre. The day before yesterday, you said that you had the responsibility you were taking, as you committed, as you said earlier in your statements, that the Greek will be emptied sooner. But what makes sense is that you take immediate and substantial steps to resolve the problem. You have already committed yourself to other things that have not been implemented. We tell you this, who, as you can see, are trying - why you said so - to have a consensus. Throughout this previous period, this spirit has shown itself to the issue of refugee. And in the Council of Political Heads, on the first Council, I mean, on the common national line, when you asked for it, but then, when the convention came in relation to Turkey and the European Union. However, you have already committed yourself to other things, such as the creation of a cross-party committee aimed at solving the problems, and unfortunately, it did not go along with them either. Now, with regard to the relocation system, since we have the opportunity today to discuss certain things, to say that there is no doubt that it is not working effectively. Since 21 March, in a debate on a topical question in this House, I have told you that the decision of the meeting in many parts of the House is simply a wish, because there is no way of guaranteeing its implementation. There was no clear prediction of whether or not there would be a relocation of refugees from Greece to the countries of the European Union, there were no obligations, in short, so that many thousands of people are in danger of being caught in our country. Already according to the details of the Refugee Crisis Coordination Body, refugees amount to about fifty-seven thousand. What we want is for you to tell us how to disengage these refugees if there is a plan. We hit you the alarm in relation to Turkey's commitments. We said that its seeming retreat in relation to the original draft of the agreement could be put back to the negotiating table soon, so we must be ready as a country, because we will see them again in front of us. On the occasion of the recent events in Turkey, you think that these developments will have an impact - today you appreciated - on the refugee issue for our country, and in the agreement between Turkey and the European Union. So what will these consequences be, which you mentioned today, and what measures are you taking on this? Why are you asking this House, as we have heard a moment ago, low tons in the next period for this matter, which is national. These tons we have kept on this issue of refugee throughout the period and we have proved it as a Democratic Incorporation - it is clear - and with the help that we are trying to give to the socialist parties' meetings in the European Union and to all the interventions that we are doing. But you must say here what you think can happen in relation to the agreement, which is not followed and what is the procedure that you will follow from now on. And on the occasion, because it has already been stated, I would like to stress once again that the answer to the current major deficits of democracy in Turkey - and I am referring to what the representative of the group accused of criminal acts has just said - is the most democratic and not the catalyst of coups. Fortunately, the coup failed and uncontrolled negative consequences are avoided. Ladies and gentlemen, the imprisonment of the current government, the mistaken manipulations and the failure to complete all administrative procedures have resulted in European funds not being used up, not to exploit European funds in the field of immigration. Let me refer here to the question I tabled to you on 16 February, Minister, in which I pointed out the need to complete all the procedures for obtaining Community financial assistance. Since February, I have also pointed out the reluctance - the recommendation of the European institutions and the support for the position of European officials that we have not received funding, because we have not made requests. In your reply, on 11 March, you informed me of the amount disbursed by the European Commission as pre-financing and sufficient details of the actions for which a call for funding has been issued. What's happened since then? Nothing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me put the question to you in February: 'What amount does the funds allocated so far go up to?' and your reply in March. I see, for example, that 'for the operational year 2015' - because I just heard that in 2015 everything went well - 'no projects have been compromised within the framework of the regular European funds and the EIF. However, as the programme is multiannual, expenditure incurred through national funding for the management of migratory flows for this period may be eligible for funding under the National Programmes.’ That was your answer and, of course, along with many other elements that are contained. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the Archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Today we are reading in the response of the European Commissioner for Immigration in the last few years that the funds for Greece under the national programmes, in order to strengthen the country's reception capacities, are about EUR 509 million. The Greek Government has not submitted any expenditure for payment under the national programmes, with the result that the EUR 70 million paid in our country as pre-financing remain untapped. That's the reality. We are also aware that the allocation of funds for our country is expected to increase in 2018 and that is why you see us worried, because we will increase the funds and do not see these absorption processes. So, Minister, is it possible for our country to be tested every day so hard, to try to cope with the challenges and complex problems of the multi-faceted crisis and not to exploit financial aid from Europe? Can the Greek Government prove to be unrealistic to absorb European funds and these to the detriment of refugees, migrants, Greek citizens and the economy of the country? I ask you: can Greece be the main recipient of funds from these funds and the image of our country be today? The Greek Government must finally be able to coordinate the situation. Coordination is required in our country and in the area of resource utilization, as in all other areas - this coordination is lacking - because otherwise the consequences will be painful in both the economic and humanitarian spheres. That, unfortunately, is the reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u146	The Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Madam President. The refugee issue, the immigration issue, has been employed and employed, after having taken explosive proportions, under the responsibility of the imperialist centres. The UN figures for 2015 are shocking. The number of 65.3 million refugees and internally displaced persons, 50% of whom are children, with the 5.4 million people becoming refugees in 2015, is the result of the barbaricity of capitalism and the antagonisms of the imperialist centres, all they have to offer are crises, poverty, wars, uprooting and refugee. With the agreement of the other parties, the government bears enormous responsibility for its attitude to the refugee question. It voted on all the European Union's decisions opening borders as required by capital. This is not why the New Democracy question does not say. He voted for the European Union-Turkey Agreement. It has passed laws and amendments that have brutally violated the rights of refugees. He tired international law, leading to the capture of refugees in Greece. He brought NATO to the Aegean Sea, pretext for keeping the marine Greek-Turkish border and supports all NATO's decisions, as well as the last dangerous Warsaw War Summit. It supports the dramatic increase in the European military forces in the region to escalate interventions in the Middle East and further intervention in Libya, with great, painful consequences for the region. It gives land and water to imperialist compounds, in which it is actively involved. It involves the Greek people in serious dangers. The main issue is to overthrow all the decisions that violate the rights of refugees in our country, such as the unacceptable European Union-Turkey agreement that New Democracy accepts. To ensure the safe movement of refugees in their final destination countries, to recognise the status of refugee in all the peoples, who are victims of imperialist interventions and reactionary regimes. To leave NATO, FRONTEX and the similar mechanisms of the European Union from Greece. In the context of the formation of state-based temporary accommodation facilities for refugees, without private and NGOs, with special attention to children, unaccompanied minors, pregnant women, people with disabilities to use any funds. Reinforce first-time services and asylum committees. To provide free legal assistance and interpretation for a rapid, reliable and fair examination of asylum claims. The JRC, Minister, on April 18, 2016 had submitted a question to the Ministry of Justice and received a reply on May 12, 2016, which says that there is no NGO register and that the answer to the question is impossible. That's what Mr. Paradise answered. One month later, in a question from the MEPs of the JRC to the European Parliament, Commissioner Avramopoulos, who called eight NGOs, selected among thirteen and financed. Mr. Muzalas today was revealing the party held by the NGOs, which has a large majority of links with large business groups and other mechanisms of capital. That is not what the New Democracy is talking about. It seems to be in line with the NGOs and their actions. There is no reference to her question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u148	This is the subject of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u149	But you are also in favour of the management of these funds by the NGOs. Are you against this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u150	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u151	Then, then, responsibility is only to the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u152	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u153	We will, of course, also submit a document published in the 'RIZOPASTI' on non-governmental organisations and non-governmental activities, with the support of the government, and it will be good for Mr Mouszalas to read it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] He said Mr Muszalas that the government tried to change the allocation of funds, but could not convince the European Union. This does not relieve the government, which allows NGOs to perpetuate and speculate on the lives of refugees themselves. Because that's what they're doing! Living conditions are miserable and are the result of the concession made to NGOs, in the absence of organised, planned intervention by the state. The hot spots were designed for a short-day stay and these are left for months now, far above the number planned. Of course, we are not talking about the Greek, the conditions there, of Piraeus, but also of other inappropriate areas with a total lack of infrastructure, which do not allow the elementary decent living. In many centres, Minister, we had a hunger strike for refugees because the food was a bit. They were hungry themselves, they couldn't get enough. Who's the man who's in charge of feeding? Can't the Department go and check? We had a hunger strike, because food quality was bad. Who's the guy who controls quality? Is it not the responsibility of the state, its mechanisms? In many centres there are protests because child nutrition is not for children. Isn't that the responsibility of the State, the Ministry of Immigration? So, we're leaving her to NGO immunity? Also, there are protests for children who end up in hospitals with a long stay, after stomach pains and diarrhea! Are these not the responsibility of the state to control which NGOs it is that this centre feeds? Medical examinations are insufficient, since there is no necessary staff or appropriate infrastructure in the area. As for the care of children's education, cowards - cowards became the case of refugees themselves, with the help of popular solidarity. Of course, the government is also required to plan and meet this vital need. This is an important aspect and we call on the people, beyond the incredible solidarity it shows, to demand, together with the refugees, decent living conditions as long as their caging lasts, beyond the NGOs. Beyond the NGO from the refugee! We'll do everything we can on this. However, the most important aspect is the fight against the causes of refugees - and in front of us we will have a new deterioration in the situation - against the decisions of the European Union and the Government to defend the rights of refugees, which are going back for many years. The Geneva Convention does not actually work, it does not exist. There is new refugee law, which is in line with all this anti-popular, anti-government policy, its hostile capital policy towards the people and their needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. The Parliamentary spokesman from the river, Mr Fotella, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Madam President. I feel ashamed and rage, which I heard from this Step Member of the Greek Parliament saying that, while all political forces are in favour of restoring normality in Turkey, the Golden Dawn was the only political force that was with others. Let us consider what they could do if they were able. Although the question of the New Democracy was tabled in February, and is being discussed on 18 July - five months later - as opposed to Mr Chiara, who is my friend, I shall say today that it is still extremely timely, especially in view of the events that we have seen in France. I take this opportunity to express my grief and solidarity with the French people, who once again experience violence and live in fear of terrorism. Let us not forget that every blow to a member of the European family is a blow to our home. I will now return to the question. This is where the Stepma has stressed many times that migration and refugee is an issue with global implications and unknown consequences, and let me point out that we have not yet seen all the dimensions of its consequences. We on the river from the very first moment we have pointed out to you the criticality of the matter. And not just that. We have not been restricted to shouting, but in time we have presented ten specific points, which could help to manage the critical situation effectively. For example, I mention the proposal to reuse old buildings, old camps, etc. In particular, the proposal to set up a coordi­natorial subcommittee. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, he is well treated is the prevention. But you didn't even hear us. On the other hand, you continued to "wound indifferently" as if the problem would disappear on its own. Unfortunately, however, the reality has confirmed our concerns. Your inertia even surpassed your ignorance. Alalum with the responsibilities of government ministers keeps good, and it now seems that mismanagement has arisen, as far as refugees are concerned. The issue of funding, especially in the economic context in our country, should be high on the government's agenda. But you prefer to play with electoral law and television licences. But it really makes me wonder, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, why is the Ministry of National Defence absent from the debate on your timely question? Does this not promote programmes for managing the refugee? It would be very useful to have the Minister here today, because, you see, this ministry is carefully avoiding dealing with our own questions. You may have felt a little bit more emotional in yours and done it. Because on 21-4-2016 we tabled a corresponding question to the same Ministries, we are now being given the opportunity to tell you exactly what we have learned. In 2015, with the phenomenon of exacerbation, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government chose to be large. It was even so large that it was able in the negotiations to get 100 million less than the Italians, who are facing less refugee flows than we are! But, to be honest, we have made a decision, ladies and gentlemen of the government. When you negotiate, losers will go out! Even that money you secured wasn't able to absorb. But the costs are running and the European Commission's funding will not be there to wait for us. The government, for an unexplained reason, seems to be stuck in the continuous planning. It's planning, but it doesn't work. He's planning, but he doesn't. He serves the coordination and management of European funds in August 2015 and one year later, abolishes it with L.4376/2016. The "coffee on the cake" is that by the same law it creates a special secretariat and a special service again. I'll admit it, though. In the creation of letters and services, you continue to be playful! On this subject again. The government announces and "runs" programs, but does not take the corresponding funding or - better - selects which funding it wants to get, which it suits and what it meets the objectives of the government. And what's the only goal of the government? The financing of the operational costs of the services it recommends each time. For example, the "Help to the Asylum Service" programme or the "Help of Human Resources in the First Reception Centres", which enjoy high absorption from 72% or more. In other words, you take and promote those funding that help you simultaneously to satisfy your clientele relationships, to create a new party state and to be worthy of your promises to your friends and voters. And that will be the only promise you will have made at the end of your hook to power. You have created an incomplete mechanism not only to support refugees and immigrants but also to host them. You spent millions of dollars on the construction of hot spots with direct contracts such as, for example, 1,200,000 euros you gave for the hot spot in Chios. But you wondered, what is the situation there today, how do they live, what do they eat, if they have doctors, training? If you don't know, we'll let you know. They are pooled with reptiles and rodents and at the same time fed with unknown foods. Babys are undernourished. As far as their health care is concerned, you owe a great deal of thanks to the medical associations, as well as to the universities, who, on their own initiative, support their education for their integration into the new European reality. We have noted these problems with questions to the relevant ministries over and over again. Your ineffectiveness and inadequacy have led local communities around hot spots to a dead end and discomfort. Also in our question some time ago, we asked you about the money spent by NGOs. You have only given us information on a "current" programme of this kind. Do you really know if other organisations have been financed, how much money they have received, and if they have fulfilled the objectives for which they have received the corresponding funds or have you left them uncontrolled? In all these questions you have not answered us. We were hoping to hear something today. Instead, we heard the Minister say, once again, that we do not know how much money has been given or what has been done and whether they have been exploited. The Bank of Greece has already announced it clearly: The forecast, based on the most favourable scenarios, calculates the cost of managing the issue for '16 that it will reach 600 million. At the same time, however, the technical memorandum of understanding provides that if the cut is to be activated - and in the way you are doing it, it is, with mathematical accuracy, certain that the cut will be activated - 0.2% of GDP for the refugee is excluded. You know, ladies and gentlemen, what is 0,2% of GDP? It corresponds to 350 million, while the refugee for '16 will cost almost twice as much. Where are we going to get this money, ladies and gentlemen of the government? To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I must accept that the refugee and immigration issue will not be resolved tomorrow. Good or bad, while you are in power, you must manage it and unfortunately in real life there are no gods machine, so you should finally start working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u156	Now Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I will begin by congratulating the party which asks the question, that Mr Voutsis and the Bureau are respected, but a question cannot be asked in February and answered in July. I, like all my colleagues, commit to the Conference of Presidents that the prestige of this Chamber must first of all be shielded. On this point, I believe that the New Democracy is absolutely right to whine, because a question cannot be asked in February and answered in July. But that is not a matter for the ministers, it is a matter for the Bureau of Parliament itself, and it will have to be corrected sooner or later. I close this parenthesis and want to remind you of the following. However, this question I have the feeling that it is timely. An unbelievable event has happened of what we had almost forgotten. We lived in '67 something similar and saw it unfolding in front of our eyes and television in neighboring Turkey. And it has a direct relationship, and we're on the news for too many reasons. I'll get to the question. I have enough to say. I would like to raise two points here, however, that after this coup which attempted what exactly happens, we did not know that. We must be very careful and careful. But for sure, it is thirteen years that Erdogan is ruling Turkey - and I think no one here believes that it is the statue of democracy, its governance - a major issue has not arisen between our countries, between us and Turkey. And I'll remind you that Imias were before Erdogan and many other episodes, much worse than what happened here. Also, there is the rumour that a large part of arbitrariness took place on the military initiative. I can't prove it. I may also be wrong, but that's what it sounds like. I would like to say this: good feeling, because democracy is above all, but above all it is the interests of the country. And right now we must be very careful how to handle this crisis. I say one thing, however, and I think everyone believes it in this Chamber. No one loved Erdogan more about what happened the other night. The whole of Europe, the whole world, is vigilant with it. This automatically strengthens the position of Greece, which is a real democracy, which is a pole of stability for Europeans, for the Americans and for the Russians, and I think we collect that. I am not talking about tourism at all. In fact, when I hear that two hundred sixty, three hundred people, away from us, died to save ten francs from tourism. Let's not get one more! I don't care about that. I am concerned, however, that Erdogan is in the eye of the cyclone and our country with the handling of democracy - and here I come to the theme - and with the handling he has done on the issue of refugees and economic migrants, it is a country of democracy with everything and has been praised by all the real democrats on the planet. I think that will work positively. Some people who saw us financially -- the Simple environment, not to hide-- will be softer with us now and we'll see. Apart from that, however, I would like to say: it was an unprecedented experience not for Greece, for the whole of Europe. Germany did not have the experience of this story with immigrants, not Austria, nor the countries of Central Europe, nor anyone. Of course, neither do we. And yet, this truly unprecedented negative experience of the caravans - six, seven thousand - every day, this government loaded it. And be a little honest and not petty. We may not have the happy ending, but imagine what happened daily with newspapers, televisions. Incredible things! We've seen incredible images, and so on. I believe that this picture has now been mitigated. Many have understood that it is no good for the country, it is not good for businessmen, and we have seen a change of attitude in the last month. Plus, the fact that - not to forget these - the self-determination, terrorism and destruction traffickers were here. And it is a terrible thing for this government and for this Minister - and I am not talking about Mr Stathakis, who I really appreciate - I am referring to Yannis Mousalas who was loaded more than he was in this crisis and you, Madam President, who, at the beginning of the day, have also managed what you have heard, you know it and people know it. What do I mean? Just give me one more minute if you're kind and I'm done. Because I heard catastrophes and others again, I would like to invoke a front page of yesterday's article not "AGEY", but of the newspaper "Kathimerini", which is not a friend to that government, the headline of its economic position. Mr. Marulis, who until recently was an economic analyst at Alpha Bank, responsibly says that something changes in this country. The surplus - beware - the recovery is already there. At a very short rate, but there's something on the horizon. Numbers. Unemployment, not big things, but 25.8% became 24.3%. Then he went to 23.3%. Also, 4 billion are going back to the banks. State investment, 6.5 billion, will fall into the economy. At the moment we are disbursing a sum of about 800 million each month, and we are going to go up to 5.4 where we are going to give dues to private individuals. And I'm not talking about the N.R.R.A. at all. The Minister of Finance spoke and told you too much. I'm not talking about Draghi's relaxation at all. I am referring, however, to figures like the 14 billion that are under way, and are actually about to be exploited by the really hard scratches of bureaucracy. I would like to end by saying this: As long as some people cry and risk, the fact that China accepted the Greek Prime Minister as equal and that the country becomes a gateway to Chinese, huge development will be seen in the future. The fact that Putin twice had contacts with the Greek Prime Minister, the fact that Barack Obama sat and spoke to the Greek Prime Minister, is the most indisputable criterion for the excesses we hear from this party. I don't want to repeat them because they're outside my aesthetic. However, I would like to say that something really changes if we make the right use of it from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u158	The latest parliamentary representative is Mr Karras from the Central Association. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u159	It is a given fact that Greece is at a geographical crossroads of peoples and cultures, from historical times until today. The impact of this cross today is the migration issue - refugee issue, because it is a good or bad portal, a claim, a demand, a desire for peoples and peoples to move towards Europe. It doesn't matter where they start. They start from the Middle East, from North Africa, from the inner part of Asia, but they want to cross into Europe through Greece, because it is the shortest land route. We had the experience in 2015 of passing a million eight hundred thousand, and we have the experience today of having about sixty thousand caught in the Greek territory, for which there is real uncertainty of their fate as well for the future. It has not made clear, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the fate of these people, as much as we want the settlement. It has also not yet made clear - and I fear that it will not be clear in the future - the question of readmission to Turkey of those who are not entitled to asylum in Greece in order to move towards European and other countries, following the latest events in the previous two - three days. This whole description I have made, Madam President, means cost, it means financial costs, it means social costs. These people, who either pass or are in Greece for temporary or longer and end up in a definitive stay, have needs of care, food, accommodation, education. They have been heard by all these colleagues. Does the Greek Government ensure this funding? I heard the numbers, I read the timely question of the New Democracy colleagues. It remains, in my opinion, timely and for the reason that today we have changing international conditions in the region, due to Turkey's events. In the last few hours some pressures greater for the movement of refugees and immigrants - their status - has also been heard by Mr Muzala and the risk of increasing flows. It does not predict, but feels some insecurity - if I am not mistaken, Minister - in this year. So did we ensure the money that is necessary? Is the funds available from the European Union funds sufficient for national programmes? They were given? Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have not received a reply to the House today as to whether the money involved in the question by the Members of the New Democracy has actually been made available. I hear about some competitions, some programs that start. We don't know their luck. But I have heard something else from the Minister, Mr Musala, on which I wish to stand. A lot of money is being directed to international organisations, non-governmental organisations, for which the Greek Government, if I am not mistaken, is not even able to inform. I will not say about the possibility of monitoring - I consider this to be a given one, it is not possible for the Greek Government to control it - but it does not have the possibility of informing itself. I heard something else. I have heard that it is considered good administration, when non-governmental organisations say that 20% -25% of their funding is operating costs, it is administrative costs. And I can say that, since we cannot control, the objective is no longer to cover the costs of these countries. Target's gone. And why am I saying that, Madam President? I say this because I myself - you will allow me a personal report - I asked the Ministry of Finance a timely question. What did I want to say? A special account was created at the Bank of Greece, where it says that European Union grants will be directed as sponsorships to manage them. Do you know that three months I haven't received an answer? And why didn't I get an answer? For the law that was introduced reads "regardless of and outside public accounting". The public accounting, however, calls for the European Union to be implemented in order to finance programmes. So I did not receive a reply from the Ministry of Finance, telling me that they were the unauthorized. I directed her to the Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness in Mr. Stathakis. That's where they were honest, I have to say it. They sent me a document and told me that it was the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and not theirs and that it was the timely question. The problem remains, I have not received an answer. A second issue, which is now raised, is the issue of asylum. We have luxurious asylum services. We have luxurious asylum procedures. I've asked Mr. Paradise, the Minister of Justice. Why should we have three degrees of judicial investigation of applications rejected by the asylum authority? We have three points, Madam President. I've never met it. I've been investigating it. I have not seen any such luxury in European legislation. I'm going further. The day before yesterday, they brought a volume - I am not counting on Mr Muzala, it is not legal, Mr Muzalas, to say that he is responsible - and they said that we will henceforth have judges at the Asylum Service. We will have no administrative staff, no public lawyers, no majority from two judges and a representative from the High Commissioner. And then we're going to the Administrative Court and then we're going to the Council of State on appeal to find a solution. As long as these procedures remain and are not handled, the problem will remain. Do you know why I'm saying this, Madam President? Because Greece is a European country and it remains a European country, and these people are grounded, and they will find the opportunity not to return to their homelands, because they are unable to go to northern Europe, and through the funding of the courts of the NGOs. So conditions will be created, social and moral, which will require them to remain in our country, without even knowing their origins most often, but also the purpose they have achieved. And if they are economic immigrants in need, I can say welcome. If they are refugees who were indeed uprooted by wars, too, I will say welcome. If, however, other elements are hidden and under the protection, they remain in our country, who will say so? Last example I'll give. It was said by Law No.4375 that they receive a five-year residence permit of about twenty-eight thousand families - if I am wrong, Mr. Muzala, please correct me - because for five years they have not been able to judge their asylum claims. This five-year period, however, also concerned previous governments, because if we count back and 2015, we will go to 2010. The state didn't work again, it still didn't solve the problem. So today, when we are talking about New Democracy's topical question, I would like to hope that the same can be said for a year, we may be looking for funds after a year, we may be looking for numbers of people who are here and I hope that the conditions in the neighbouring country will not change, because there is no provision there. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u160	The first cycle of all speakers, questions, parliamentary representatives, Ministers, etc. was completed. Now we're entering the second circle. First, from the honourable Members, Mr Kalafatis, Mr Javaras, Mr Kefaloyannis, who left, and Mr Tsiaras, who also left. So, it's just you two. Mr. Kalafatis has six minutes and Mr. Javarras has three minutes. They are also entitled by both Ministers and by the parliamentary representatives only by Mr Kikilias. We're going to make an economy in time, because you're going to have tritology. So you can take the floor to speak, and if you want to answer it later. That's how we put it in place. Mr. Kalafatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Look, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, to be honest, I would expect the government to have greater and better preparation for the answers we were hoping to receive, in relation to such a crucial issue as the refugee issue. I can say, ladies and gentlemen, that I have not been satisfied with the answers I have received from my fellow Members, irrespective of the climate that the ministers have tried to create and to some extent required, that is, with regard to the consensus that is required to a certain extent in this House on such a crucial issue. But questions, Mr President-in-Office, remain and have not been answered. I would like to make a political note. It is not a matter of ideology, Minister, Mr Stathakis, and a mixture of ideology and incompetence. It's also a matter of ideology. We must not see the government's approach, position and attitude in the first few months that faced the refugee crisis. This attitude and the position of the government is reflected in certain political behaviours, whether those of the competent ministers, who then served in key positions, or, of course, have to do with specific messages which the government sent out during the first few months of the country's governance by that government, in terms of the refugee issue, that is, the fact that it was sending out a completely different message from what it is now sending out after a year and a half, does not mean that political responsibilities are being overlooked. Do not ask us to accept that the Greek society will pay on the issue of the refugee question of the government's 'catch-up' to learn how to deal with such a matter. Of course, if the piece of ideas was actually taken away in a way, because you have actually entered into reality, but the issue of incompetence remains, because we have to talk with certain numbers and with tangible results, which are not seen by the figures or by the answers you have given us, Minister. Of course, this is also seen by official responses from the European Commission. In questions from a fellow New Democracy MEP, the European Commission's answer, which says about EUR 70 million, which has been allocated, but has not been absorbed by the Greek Government, is specific, because it has not been ready. This is a tangible result, which is an argument in the patronage of Officer Response, when he's in doubt and accuses you of incompetence. As is also not an answer, Minister, to submit a study of experts. In a parliamentary debate and in a parliamentary procedure at the highest level, for example, the Member of Parliament will not refer to the case-law of scientist Delcaprio and Tusman, where these references are essentially, which we distinguish within the committee, in order to obtain the answers we ask through the parliamentary procedure to very specific questions, which have to do with the number, actions or omissions of the Government regarding the use of European funds. If you want, we can also give you a range of financial instruments. There are four - five, you know, that you can use. One is emergency and emergency. In fact, in this part you have been used as a response to government, how much of this emergency, which is part of it, has been exploited, but it is not the only one, because the main is the regular resources, namely the use of the EUR 509 million funds that are through the NSRF, which is the second part and, of course, we have not received sufficient answers. You could also go, which is through the Greek national programmes, and address the question of financing FRONTEX. You could speak and look for the funding of the European Asylum Support Office. And, of course, there is also an emergency aid mechanism. The Committee proposed on 2 March 2016 a new emergency aid instrument of EUR 700 million. Within this exceptional instrument, which is about 300 million in 2016, 200 million in 2017 and another 200 million in 2018, including such actions that you could use. Finally, to close my speech, I would like to say that a fellow Member has again tried to help indirectly. Of course, we did not get an answer to the question. I'll give it to you now. This is a question that my colleague, Mr Moscovisi, has raised, but he has not received any clear answers. The Greek Government could apply for exemption from the criteria of the Stability Pact, for expenditure relating to the treatment of the refugee crisis. This is a proposal or a manoeuvre or - if you like - a move that the Greek Government could make. Apparently, she hasn't, so she hasn't told us about it. So I close by saying that questions remain unanswered. We do not know what the answer to the main question of this topical question is. How much money will it finally be necessary to bear the back of every taxpayer for 2015 and 2016 to deal with the refugee crisis? Can we know exactly?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u162	As the New Democracy gave in 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u163	What the New Democracy gave in 2014? What's that? The answer to the fact that there are 600 million euros in 2016, according to the Bank of Greece? According to the International Monetary Fund, about 300 million euros were borne by the taxpayer in 2015. So we have at least EUR 900 million for 2015 and 2016, of which we have not received a clear answer, ladies and gentlemen of the government, how much of that ultimately - at least EUR 900 million, close to EUR 1 billion - bear the taxpayer's back. This is the final - if you wish - answer that you must give, and from there it will look how well you will make use of any tools available by the European Union to deal with the refugee crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Javarra, will you come here or will you speak from there? You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u165	I'll come to Stepma to be close to you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u166	Okay, thanks. Did you see? I've got my lucky, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u167	Thank you very much. Indeed, there is a very important and very revealing attitude which I must comment on. Although Mr Stathakis is a parliamentarian, even though he is also a Member of Parliament, I believe that he has shown less parliamentary sensitivity to the question of the New Democracy than Mr Mousalas, who would be forgiven, since he is not a Member of this House to have any such - if you like - distance from the way in which the debates in Parliament are conducted. I say this, Mr Stathakis, because you do indeed have a capacity, but you also have a sufficient capacity to want and achieve, when you seek it, to be parliamentaryally useful. Instead, you came here and with a style of "God, begotten, ignorant", which also says the poet, conquered us, telling us that this government is successful and whatever you say, in the air is your words. But you are wrong, because how successful this government is if you get out of Parliament's chamber in the first possible pass you will answer, you have the arguments to convince him of how great the success of the government's work is in the year and a half we live. So before you took that look, you should at least have convinced us - and I think Mr Muszalas did so, when he said that this question was positive - and answering that question to you. How much money have you absorbed? It follows, therefore, that not only did New Democracy say so, but also from other aspects, that to date what has been collected is an advance payment of EUR 70 million, and that has still not been absorbed. Of course, do not tell me that such a question, which is being asked in February, is being made in order to slander the government. No, because it is also evidenced by the way we have come before Parliament that it was our intention to mobilise you and to tell you that you are inactive, that you have slipped. Organize, get ready and hurry to get the money. And the sum is not conceivable when you yourself speak of five hundred million. In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to say - and I think I have your consent to what I am going to say - that in Parliament the reason is oral, that is to say, the person to whom it is addressed. So you do not mean, a Minister with experience of parliamentary life, but also with comfort, having in your hands documents from which the National Representation will be enlightened and coming here and giving us studies from the Prime Minister's office, to convince us that what we are asking you is not important and worthy of answer in the way, of course, that you have failed to do so today, and you have been sorry for us. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. The Minister has the floor, Mr Muzalas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u169	I would like to thank you for the low tone. Inside the low tones, however, it was not said that SYRIZA was responsible for the Asia Minor disaster and...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u170	We didn't say that. You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u171	Mr. Javarra, listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u172	What you're doing is more wicked.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u173	So listen to me. That's all that wasn't said. Let me tell you two things. Firstly, we are managing a crisis. Therefore, success or failure lies in the management of the crisis, it is not the solution to the problem. I think you're experienced people and that you can understand. A crisis management has blanks, mistakes. I recognize a lot of mistakes from what's going on. Probably because I live in the field, I know more. The management of the crisis has, however, been good and proper. Mr Theocharopoulos, who has helped too much in a global view of appeal, using fair arguments, has wronged us. That's easy to do. 'You did not empty the port'. He's right. We didn't clear the port. Gentlemen, however, we have created forty thousand places in two months. This thing has never happened before. It's very simple. You can see it. Worseful non-governmental organisations - we have been accused of this - are improving. That's never happened before. We emptied Earned that way, that's never happened before. On the same day he was emptying Calais. These are to the honor of the country, no matter who did them. We're feeding sixty thousand people with a catering that's not good. There's another one. But there's that one. But we're feeding sixty thousand people. And the problem is that wrong arguments are being used. I mean, someone says I said education, they're not gonna happen. I didn't say that. What argument do you use? "One and a half years and you're not ready." It's not a year and a half, gentlemen. The problem began on 19 March. We're ready. There's a great problem. Mr. Fortsakis will know. Universities have participated in the Ministry of Education. I said because of the nature of the flows, the population is still mobile. We don't know who's staying and who's leaving. I said that on the basis of this programme, we will do preliminary classes, what is being done in Germany. That's not a failure. It's a success. With regard to relocation, two thousand tens of three have become relocation so far. There are two and a half thousand other people, who are ready and there are the countries that will welcome them. That's not enough, you're right. What can we do, gentlemen, from the New Democracy, the Democratic Incorporation, the River and the Centron Union? Shall we make war with Poland? Shall we go and understand Brussels to empty? Can we change the decision? I am sure that within your European parties you put the same demand that the government puts in the European Union. You say we increase the relocation. It can't be done!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u174	You're answering questions we didn't ask, but that's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u175	I will respond to what has been said. I'm responding to things you said. Mr. Stathakis will answer the finances. We made a bilateral deal with France. France accepts to take us four hundred people a month. I don't know how to tell you after the events in Nice whether this will continue and I talk very honestly at all times. We made a special deal with Portugal. We're trying to do all over the place. The European Union is trying to force it. Thirteen members of the European Union have resistance. What can we do? What would New Democracy and Democracy do? I repeat that I am sure you are pressing within your European parties and it is not working. We're all trying together. As far as voluntary returns are concerned, we have a huge increase. But there is the question of forced returns, which we will find before us in Dublin. There is no European planning and they go to load it into national states. I am sure you are pressing through the People's Party and the Socialist Party. We have to go through this. We're starting a series of tours with other ministers on these issues. I'm sure you're doing it in your parties. I do not question your patriotism. But when we find the wall, we find it together and we have to throw it together. There has been no hunger strike. It has only become one in Chios with twelve people, who lasted thirteen days and ended. There was not one epidemic, with eight hundred and fifty thousand people going through, and sixty thousand being locked up. There was no epidemic, and that is no accident, despite all the shortcomings, which I will accept from you. This shows a care, a care and a good one. It is good for the country and we must continue to help everyone. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] About the NGOs, I didn't talk about a party. Because if I talk about a party, then I can't go out to Europe. I said something very simple: we don't have jurisdiction to control them, and we're being monitored all the time. The Court of Auditors - let us say - of Europe came to see what we are doing twice. For NGOs, this will take place after years. What can we do? What would you do? He says the NGO's MEP doesn't take it from the NGO. I think, Mr Javarra, that's your point of view. That's ours, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u176	I'm sceptical about the NGO...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u177	And this is our state to take it. They didn't give it, gentlemen. We fought it in the European Union, and I am sure you fought it in your European parties too. They don't. What do you say we don't get them? It's 300 million. We have to be careful. It has been said by the representatives of the Potamos that there is no intent - and I stress this, because I very much appreciate the honourable Member - for the recruitment of the High Commissioner. Ladies and gentlemen, that is unfair. The High Commissioner is headed by a lady, who is one of the highest technocrats, who was the selection of the New Democracy, remained and manages her service perfectly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u178	You're talking about asylum.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u179	Yeah, I'm talking about asylum. She runs her service perfectly, and no shadow should be deceived. She's got a huge burden on her. For the Host Service, recruitment will be done through OAED and through the municipalities. There is no Minister's intervention to whom he will be recruited. There are lists. Don't say things that don't stand. I spoke about the events in Turkey. We are concerned and I am sure that all parties in the democratic arch are concerned about the issue. It's a new factor that we're going to have to deal with. We need to create greater cohesion and greater unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u180	The Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, Mr. Stathakis, has the floor. How much time do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u181	I will be brief, Mr President. I would like to reply first of all to my parliamentary practice. I recognise that I should have given you the study before the meeting. Secondly, I would like to clarify that it is not a theoretical study. Her chief author is the General Accounting Office of the State. There is no evidence of expenditure on immigration that is not included in the study, so costly, detailed, that is, we know how much we did in 2015 to the Asylum Service, the Police, the Port, the First Reception Service and others - up to a total, joking towards the New Democracy, I said that we are spending what the New Democracy has been spending. In 2014, he had spent 272 million euros on the refugee with the main recipient, of course, the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, which had the 200 million. In 2015 we were at 277 million euros, marginally above. With regard to the new costs estimated at EUR 600, 900 million and the others, I would remind you that the sums we will receive from the European Union and planned are EUR 400 million and EUR 200 million are the extraordinary ones. Therefore, the actual costs will move to levels already in existence both from previous years and in 2014 and 2015. There is no new additional money that we will have to put from the ordinary budget. Let me remind you that the money we are writing in the ILO, the EUR 400 million that we have written for this year, also includes European funds, not the ones that are compatible with funding. As far as financial instruments are concerned, there has been an observation as to whether we are using them all. First of all, the NRP money is not for this job. It's for other needs. The money for FRONTEX has been used in full. We are using other financial instruments, such as money from EEA countries and INTERREG. Some of this money we use for refugee purposes. As far as the EUR 400 million is concerned, I think I have made it clear. To go back to the general picture now. The Government has chosen for the management of these two major programmes of EUR 500 million to establish a service, following the successful management of the ESRB's mechanisms, which has the single management of these resources, as this would enable the government to manage the resources coordinatedly, with great know-how available to our services in the ESRB - and that is why the changes you mentioned and the management to be made to the Ministry of Economy in order to make a better utilization of resources. We must recognise that today things are in some way in a situation that was perhaps not in February, but have started quite well. We are now aware of the two major programmes and the timetable for their absorption. The funds have been allocated in detail to each category of programmes and sub-programmes. It is the last Annex, Annex II, where you will see the two major programmes I mentioned in my speech. There is a successful infrastructure organisation. There is a huge scope for improvement - obviously Mr Mouszalas also said so - of living conditions, meeting the new challenges, education and all the other structures that will be needed. I think that at the moment we are at a good point. Let me answer two words in each of the questions that have been asked. As far as the financial costs of managing migration are concerned, I have already answered. There are also tables in the study for 2014, 2015 and estimates for 2016. The approved national programmes are all on the Internet. It seems rather very detailed both the qualitative and the quantitative objectives of the programmes. As far as the two funds are concerned, I have referred in detail. As far as the competent authorities and the administrative experience are concerned, I replied. I think that the new structure that we have given management will be much better and more effective, at least in managing the resources, in the sense of dealing with the bureaucracy that these must follow. With regard to transparency, all calls and invitations are now made with the admissible European practice. So we have successive invitations to tender, like all other European money management procedures. Therefore, although there were obviously a need-pressed phenomena in 2015 for some direct-operation emergencies, since then all this system has been harmonized in the normal procedure that all the other NSRs have. With regard to hot spots and reception centres in your sixth question, I think Mr Mousal has answered. As regards total expenditure, the 400 million for 2016 has also been answered. There's one detail I didn't answer, because we haven't put money in the relocation in contrast to repatriation. In repatriation, the Fund's budget is 120 million. That's a lot of money. In the relocation we have zero, for the simple reason that we are a host country. We are not a recipient country, i.e. they are not from other countries of the European Union. The relocation concerns the European Union. Therefore, the country is a host country, not a receiving country in relocation. That is why we have not put money in the relocation, and all the money has gone to the repatriation that is also a matter of competence. That's all I had to say. Thank you. I'm going to improve my parliamentary habits!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kikilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u183	I shall speak from my position, Mr President. For the past two and a half hours, three hours and tenacious, pressing, and with arguments, calls for the Civic Opposition to learn the obvious. A month ago, the European Commission answered a question by a Greek MEP about what has been absorbed from the point of view of regular funding from the European Funds, through the managing authority in our country, for refugee - immigration. Zero, zero, nothing! The Commissioner, Mr Avramopoulos, spoke with the Prime Minister of the country asking him to speed up the procedures so that the country can absorb the obvious. We are in a restrictive economic policy. You see the cuts made in pensions, in the CSCE, in social policy problems that the government has talked about, in hospitals. And where isn't that a problem? And where doesn't national resources need, Minister? In the plenary session of the European Parliament you are resigning because Italy has used the appropriate funds, it has compromised them and you are not. Unfortunately, we have heard - unfortunately - from a colleague from the minor Representation that Turkey still - in these three months, has succeeded and met specific needs and is being collected. So, with your key mistaken choice to abolish a managing authority, which was already set up and ready for the Ministry of Public Order, and to take it to five ministries, to end up with the Ministry of Development, and which you have not yet served, you have, Minister, planning on this issue. You're accidentally walking. You have not collected anything, not even from the EUR 57 million that the European Commission has paid to you for increased needs. That's the reality. That's the truth. What you do not want to tell us - and for which we are basically dealing here with creative ambiguity on this issue - I say it to finish, let's say, three hours later. That's the reality. And the review was good for Flevaris. But you're making it easier for the process and bringing it here after five months. It was a good criticism, because at the end of February we told you that in this case for the benefit of your government and the Greek people, it would have been a good thing to have absorbed the funds and not to be spent on the national budget because of what emerged. Why did they come up? It's another matter. We're not talking about it today. Why relocation is not working is another topic. We're not talking about it today. The fact that Poland has a glimpse of it, too. We asked you a specific question which we did not receive, and neither did I nor my colleagues in the other parties. That's the truth and the reality. It would be beneficial - I repeat - for your Government and the Greek people to have collected these amounts. And you haven't collected them. And that would be an honest answer, Mr Ministers: "You know, gentlemen, we've been blocked, we're late. Our planning for the transfer, dismantling and re-establishment of this service, which became a special secretariat at the Ministry of Development, proved to be a failure, because things were running at a rapid pace, so we haven't collected anything yet. And we look forward to running in the second half of 2016, in order to ensure that the funds are not lost." Instead, we heard theories and philosophy. We're sorry. We're sorry because we're not here to shake your finger today. We came here five months ago to tell you the obvious. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone in his area - at least as far as Professionalism is concerned - has demonstrated this and they have not received a reply to it. So we tell you even at this last hour, after five months, in a process which may have come in mid-July, why? Because it is in recession a very difficult subject, the major issue for Europe and Greece? But it's not. The Minister already said so. There is a major issue and we have to deal with it. In any case, in restrictive budgetary policies, when we do not have these financial instruments, should our partners not, if we carry the bulk of this crisis, take these available amounts and make appropriate use of them? Of course, since you have moved the finger over the years on how the competitions are being conducted, how can the awards be made, where are the funds and money for each euro, there is a question of Greek government control at the NGOs. We are not against NGOs and their work. However, we demand that there should be control and separation between those who really do work in the country and support the humanitarian effort and those who buy them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. It seems to us that after a peak of the refugee crisis for two - three months now direct assignments are still being made. What role does the Ministry of National Defence play? How have you planned to do things? Where are your logistics? Where's your programming? How these eight - nine authorities - I told you and explained that they are all involved - have coordinated them: the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Public Order, the committees, the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Trade Shipping. All of these are involved by means of its institutions in collection or non-funding. What's going on? Who coordinates all this? Or don't you believe in coordination and organised management, but in a chaotic administration of yours? Say it in order to know, not to come here every three minutes and discuss the same, that is to say, even when the Civic Opposition, with a very strong sense of responsibility, comes early and pushs you in the right direction. This is also our constitutional role, to control you, to urge you and to give solutions. So we had a start that you broke up and brought another one after five months. You didn't collect the money and move the finger!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr. Kikilia. I don't know if any Minister wants to answer. As far as I can see, nobody wants to. The debate on the number 18/12/24-02-2016 topical question on ‘Government ready to absorb European funds from the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund and the Internal Security Fund’ is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, the minutes of the sittings of Friday 13 May 2016, Monday 16 May 2016, Tuesday 17 May 2016 and Thursday 19 May 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u185	The minutes of Friday 13 May 2016, Monday 16 May 2016, Tuesday 17 May 2016 and Thursday 19 May 2016 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-18-S1-commons.u186	With the consent of the House at 21.55' the sitting is closed tomorrow, Tuesday, 19 July 2016, at 17.00, on the subject of the House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
