ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 10-11-2016, the minutes of the KG's meetings of Thursday, 10 November 2016, with regard to the vote on all draft laws: 2 to the Agreement on the Management of Nature between the Ministry of Defence of the French Republic and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic on Cooperation in the context of a Technology System of Unmanned Fighting Aircraft (Vehicule Aerien de Combat Sans Pilote, UCAV)’.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 14 November 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 180/7-11-2016 topical question of the Deputy Arta of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Styriou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the blockades in the start of the work of restoring the old Judge of the Congregation of the Great Artas. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 187/8-11-2016 topical question by Piraeus II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Health on the risk of interruption of the Endocrine Clinic of the Hospital of Nice "Agios Panteleimonas". 3. The question raised by Mr Anastasios Megamomoustakas, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Anastasios Megamomoustakas, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the problem of increasing the population of stray animals in our country. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under the terms of the ‘Capital Controls’, ‘Capital Controls’ and ‘Capital Controls’, the ‘Customs Office’ is responsible for ensuring that the ‘Capital Controls’ are enforced. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 182/7-11-2016 topical question by Congressman I Thessaloniki of the Association of Centroon Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Finance on the management of the red loans of the former ATEbank, in an unfair manner for its debtors. 3. The 164/1-11-2016 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Ministers for Home and Rural Development and Food, on the problem of heavy rainfall in the Prefecture of Iotolokarnania. 4. The 156/31-10-2016 topical question of the Member of Parliament, Mr Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the delay in the payment of the pensions of orders from the General Accounting Office of the State, following their accession to the Single Security Agency (ESA). 5. The question by No 127/18-10-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the problems of student housing at the University of Epirus. 6. The Question No 62/10-10-2016 by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister of the Interior about the "displacement of 36,769 Greek children from nursery stations". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 173/3-11-2016 topical question by MP A' Thessaloniki of the Association of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the approval of the medium-term business plan for the Port Authority of Thessaloniki (OLTH). Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I will first announce what timely questions will not be discussed. The third, with number 160/1-11-2016, topical question of the second question of the Eotolokarnania coalition of the Radical Left, Maria Triantafylou to the Minister of Tourism, concerning the completion of the work of Marina Messology, will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister M. Koudoura abroad. The second one under number 1787-11-2016 is a timely question for the first cycle of MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygeakis to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the "fresh" of public works due to the n. 4412/2016 on public procurement, will not be discussed due to the absence of Minister Papadimitriou abroad. The third, with number 189/8-11-2016, timely first question by Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the "treaty for the protection of the property of Greeks in Himara, equitable with uprooting", will not be discussed because the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr.Amanatidis is absent due to unreserved obligations and will be redefined for discussion. The fourth under number 190/8-11-2016 topical question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health, on the range of use of telemedicine in Greece, will not be discussed due to a workload of the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Polakis. Also, the seventh Question No 119/18-10-2016 topical question by the Independent MEP II of Athens Mr.Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Health, concerning the shortcomings in medical devices that endanger the health and life of patients, will not be discussed for the same reason. The fifth question under number 185/8-11-2016 of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the immediate coverage of the educational gaps in the professional high schools of Crete, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Dimitrios Baxvanakis on account of his information on issues of the Ministry. The first under number 179/7-11-2016 topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy Mr Anastasios Publicaciou to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on the establishment of a Port Academy in Alexandroupolis, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Shipping Mr Panagiotis Kourublis. The second, with number 186/8-11-2016, topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Ministers for Culture and Sports, on the situation in the National Sports Centres (ESAK) and Municipal Sports Centres, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports Mr Vassiliou because he is informed about the issues of the Ministry. The fourth under number 157/31-10-2016 topical question from the MP Halkidiki of the People's League - Golden Dawn.Save Vlacho to the Minister of National Defence, on “direct border closure, guard from the Armed Forces and a referendum on the illegal immigration issue”, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Vitsa. Also, due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotou, the following questions will not be discussed as a result of a workload: The fifth under number 152/31-10-2016 topical question by the Independent MEP 2 of Athens Efstathios Panagoulis to the Minister of Finance, concerning ‘if the Minister of Finance and his relatives were returned their money to the Greek banks as he urged the Greeks to remove the ‘Capital Controls’. The sixth Question No 117/17-10-2016 is a topical question by Evia MP Evia of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Finance about the "scandian" sale of TRAINOSE against the incomplete price of 45m euros. Also, for the same reason will not be discussed under number 31/3-10-2016, the question by the Independent MEP, Mr Leonidas Gregorakos, about the compensation of shareholders of the Cooperative Banks. For the new ministers, I think we should be in the first week in relative importance. I hope that this will not be the case next week, because we will start the curdling from the Chair. In contrast, I have to say good words about the apostle, who continues to be in his place and is always present. I would also like to say that for the reasons that the ministers are missing, there is also the letter from the Secretary of Government, Mr Kaloger. So we begin with the debate of the first under number 184/8-11-2016 topical question of the first cycle of MP I Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Helen Stamatakis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the staffing and utilization of the Poros Tree Station. Mrs Stamaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much for being here to answer my question concerning the Poros Tree Station. Since 1949, when the station started operating as a state nursery Poros has contributed decisively to the development of agriculture in our country at a difficult time, after the war, while there was a research and application cell. But its current situation is frustrating, as it shows a complete abandonment picture and does not actually work. These are abandoned farms of an overall size of eight hundred acres, with two thousand olive trees and five thousand citrus fruits, as well as incalculable mother plantations of citrus and genetic material, a result of a long work, part of which has been destroyed due to the lack of scientific and labour. There are hundreds of five varieties of citrus fruit, avocados and peanuts, which have been described in accordance with the Community protocols and are listed in the country's national list. This material is dispersed in the areas of the station, must be in excellent condition in terms of phytosanitary and planting and must be subject to the direct control of the service, on the basis of the obligations arising from Ministerial Decision No 2975/1989. It must be handled by permanent, experienced and qualified personnel and not by anyone. In addition, the aim of the plant was to evaluate for a multi-annual evaluation the varieties for safe conclusions in favour of the country's citrus fruiting and farmers concerned with this crop. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like two more minutes, Mr President. The material available to farmers requires strict care to provide genuine and healthy plant material in the form of trees, vaccines and seeds. In view of the above, there appears to be an immediate need for staffing, resulting from the importance of the station, which will bring many benefits to farmers but also to the national economy and because it is unacceptable to reap ready public infrastructure and, at the same time, to help farmers, while thousands of young farmers with special knowledge remain untreated and are pushed to unemployment and migration, I ask you, Minister: What action does the Ministry intend to take in order to provide adequate staff for the Poros Tree Station with the necessary administrative, scientific and labour force personnel?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u4	Dear colleague, the situation at the tree house and the farm is exactly as you described it. We have a great deal of lack of scientific staff and staff that will support the farm. It is an issue that concerns us because we want the property to serve its purpose, which is the production and disposal of certified propagating material and citrus seeds, because producers and nurseries throughout the country need this material, and that is what is being supplied. We also want to maintain the varieties and the subjects that are included in the country's national catalogue of varieties and, of course, to evaluate them at the same time for the needs of a crop that we need as a country. So, first of all, we want this situation to be restored functionally, namely to ensure a healthy propagating material to meet needs, because there is an ongoing search for a citrus replanting programme and we cannot serve it unless we take care of this station. We are also trying at this time to manipulate the station with the appropriate scientific staff. You already know that a geopath has gone to prepare - I'd say - what we're planning. We are making an effort, particularly at this time, to have a workforce that will be in the process of maintaining and restoring too many things that have reached the situation you have described. We are also waiting, after the law on the mobility of employees has been passed and implemented, for us to now be able to strengthen with more staff. Of course, at the same time, we are also trying to ensure the necessary resources to safeguard the valuable propagating material that this station has, because the plant is the preserver of these varieties of propagating material. However, the other thing we are interested in is that there should be uninterrupted production in the growing season that we are entering, because there is a need for producers, the incubators to have the proper material. In my dentistry, I will tell you what we are planning in the medium to long term, to tackle radically - I would say - this particular problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u5	Here, Mrs Stamaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u6	Minister, it is very pleasant that you agree with the findings I have made. Today, which needs to be supported in the reconstruction of Greek agriculture, it is obvious that this station is valuable for the primary production of the country. As you said, there is very genetic material, there are protected species and also there is a very important equipment in the station. It is two glass greenhouses, one insecting cages and shade, which hosted plants - indicators so that control can be carried out. There are citrus fruits which are just samples to enable them to be used to identify the viruses. So this station is very useful and needs vigilance - I would say - because the years that are abandoned are too much. A farmer cannot, as I said before, do all the work he needs. It requires more staff and staff who are experienced and skilled, but also technical staff who can respond directly to the needs of the station, because there is a very high risk that this station will not exist at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u7	Minister, in your answer I would like to have a first reaction. I'm telling you, because from what I understand, you need working hands there. See if you can activate people who are part of the social work institution who are entitled to be in the institution of social work. I, as mayor in Athens, activated it and must tell you that they were better than the municipal officials in an honorable and efficient manner. I say this to overcome the difficulty of recruiting that we all know exists. I'm telling you, it's a first reaction. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, your position is a stimulus for us and we will look for it. It is very important, because there is an absolute need for staff to return, I would say, to work on this land. In addition to the need for the current growing season, we need to see it in the medium to long term. There, then, we seek a programme agreement with the Agricultural University of Athens, ELGO DIMITRA, our organization so that we can have a permanent function of propagating material. This agreement we want to include in the new rural development programme, which we are already starting to implement, so that within four to five years we have a programme that will effectively solve all needs for a permanent situation. Of course, I shall mention the sustainable cultivation of citrus fruits at the same time. There are citrus fruits to enter the production process. There we want to establish a group of young farmers who want to deal with the agricultural sector and through their association with a training and education programme and with the production made by the cultivation process, so that we can ensure a sustainable income, so that we can make a real effort to resolve the major problem of the operation of this plant, first of all - I repeat - for the propagating material, which has and may also be used to cover the need for specific agricultural production of citrus fruit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u9	Let's go to the second and last to discuss today's question. It is the sixth under number 183/7-11-2016 timely question of the first cycle of the Z Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, Potamios Spyridon Lykoudi, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the problems of urban transport in the capital. The Minister will answer Mr Spirtzis, of the consistent ministers as well. Mr. Lykoudis, you have the floor for your prototype. We have time looseness, so you can develop it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, I would like you to allow me to make a comment before entering my question, on the basis of the comment you made at the beginning of the parliamentary scrutiny procedure. I think that parliamentary control is not dealt with with the respect and attention that it needs in the phase that we are going through and I mean parliamentary control. I have had twice my last two questions to withdraw them, because the ministers are not here on many occasions to answer me. Then it doesn't make any sense, because a timely question becomes unreasonable if one month has passed since you file it in order to answer it. I think that Parliament's control, which is excellent in all respects, is not tackled with due seriousness. So I would also like to say what you said, because to me this picture is obvious and I have that impression. The present Ministers have almost never missed questions. It's not just my experience as a Member, it's also the experience of a man who manages the procedure from the Chair. Both Mr Apostle and Mr Spirtz are consistently present in the parliamentary procedure and are not despising the Members' questions. Mr President, I would also like you to help not to be here or, in any case, to have this question dealt with. As far as my question is concerned, Minister, the fact that the situation in urban transport is bad does not need any arguments, nor does this assessment - to convey it today by my question - arises from comments or reports from newspapers or complaints and comments by trade unions in the field of means of transport. It's an experience we all have. There's no way you won't have it too. Isn't that right? We're running around in this town. I was born in this town. I love this town. I walk or walk in this town, and I know it very well. I see this picture, the countless tails, the suffering of our fellow citizens, etc., especially the elderly. We have two thousand three hundred buses around and eight hundred with nine hundred. We've got about three hundred and forty trolleye, if I remember very well - so I don't look at my papers - and there's a hundred forty, a hundred thirty-six, I think. The President, as mayor, has lived through this story and knows it very well. Of course, the cause of this dystomia in transport operation is that too many buses or too many trolleybuses stay in warehouses because there are no materials and accessories or because they are old or because there is no staff to move them. That's what the evidence says at least. And he comes to be added to this process, besides that, and the new topic of having, saying, incorporating - I don't know what the exact term is...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u11	They've been installed, they've installed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u12	Yes, the telematics process and the electronic ticket have been placed on buses or trolleys that stay in the warehouses and, possibly, are spoiling what we have, by buying them with a lot of money. So I would like to ask you, Minister, how you are dealing with this picture - not to describe it again, you know it very well - and why there has not been a provision or agreement with the sponsor company - that we should have had these machines in their boxes and not have put them in the buses so that they do not stay and rot in warehouses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u13	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, thank you for your good words and for Mr Lykoudi, and for Mr Apostle. Indeed, the situation, my fellow Member, in planning and in what we found in urban transport is dramatic. The buses, which were there, were two thousand, three hundred, eighty-seven. Of these, when we took over the rulership, about eight hundred were damaged. This figure is reduced, through ambitious efforts not only by the administration of the OSH but mainly by the employees, and varies each time, and in 2016 it has been reduced to five hundred. Why is that? This is because we have a very big and bad bureaucratic procedure in relation to supplies. I give you some examples of some contests to get a picture. The competition, for example, for diesel, amounting to 110 million, had a declaration in 2010 and was completed in 2016. Same for mechanical equipment a few years later. The same for tyres, tyres, that is, for our buses, which is completed in the next few months. Same for batteries, for accumulators, i.e. buses. These competitions are coming up for five and six years. So many of the buses we have stopped do not have tires or batteries, that is, such damage. Of course, there are also buses that have much more serious damage. For these buses, I've given you evidence of answers sent by the service, so you know, in detail, what the situation is. It's not that dramatic. Dramatic is this situation, which is the analysis of age distribution by bus type. This table describes how increased the average age of the buses of all types we have and this costs very much in maintenance, but also in all the effort that can be made which buses can be circulated. As to your question in relation to the telematics system, I will give you more information. Unfortunately, because this project is a project co-financed with the NSRF, there is no material warehouse. To close the program, the equipment for the two thousand buses had to be installed. This is a very important issue for the completion of this programme. In other words, we couldn't change it and say that we put it in storage for five hundred. The second is that these buses on which this equipment was installed are not buses that are to be withdrawn. They are buses, which with some repairs - and that means that all the remaining equipment installed within it - may at any time go on the road and serve the world. So that's why. I know, very well, that there are a few trade unionists in the UCLAF who are self-sufficient come out to make complaints, when they are part of the problem, of the misery that exists in urban transport. Why am I saying that? Let's say we could take the two thousand buses off the streets. Could we? ‘No’ is the answer, because there are no drivers. Why are there no drivers? Because too many of the recruitments, which have taken place in the past few years, are the ways in which you know that they have been and are being investigated, after a few months, by intervention of certain people, they have changed their expertise and went to other agencies. So more than ninety employees have been removed from this specialty. The greatest thing we can get on the road, because of the staff situation, is a thousand three hundred buses, Mr President. What have we done?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u15	Keep the rest of it for dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u16	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u17	Before giving the floor to Mr Lykoudis, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, forty-three students and schoolchildren and three teachers from the 2nd High School. I would like to inform you that the picture of the parliamentary permit you see today means that we do not have legislative work. Today they are Members' questions to the ministers and they come to the Members who are asking the question only. That's not to be disappointed. We welcome you, however, to the House and wish you good progress. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Of course, I should like to be allowed, Mr Lykoudis, to welcome the old and Mr Dritsa to the seat, not because we are happy, because he has left a Minister, but because it shows how traditional Members are facing Parliament. I say this in the knowledge of younger colleagues. That is why I would point out. Minister, I have asked you in writing if you have any information, because what I will tell you now is not due to bad trade unionists, but is the percentage of the ticket escape, because there are no auditors. That's a fact. There's information that's reached 60%. There has always been, but unfortunately it has increased, especially since the incidents of those who exist, the well-known cowboys of the popular race. Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, thankfully, first of all, you have commented on Parliament's present image. Many times I have thought that the children are coming, they see the leave room, they do not know that at this stage of parliamentary procedure we have only the MPs and the respondents in question, and they may form a negative picture, and that is not the case. Minister, at the beginning of your prototype I wanted to say good, good, once again there is a debate that the Minister, in accepting the picture described by the honourable Member, honestly accepts all these problems, realizes that the problem of parliamentary control is not a problem of opposition and a response from the government. When we check, we don't make him fight, but to find solutions. However, during the course of the completion of the terminology, I think that you have again escaped issues which do not give rise to any interest in the solution. For example, we could not have predicted other conditions in the process of electronic ticketing machines so that we do not have to put machines on buses that do not come out of the market and do not risk the machines having the fate of buses...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u19	They'll be released.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u20	But they'll come out - if they come out - after two years. And machines have been left for two years on buses, with all that means, rusts, dusts, etc. Isn't that a problem? It's a problem. So I think that you cannot go beyond that, saying 'what to do, that was the contract'. Something else we had to do. I don't blame you. Something else we had to do. That's obvious. Secondly, I would like to say that I am not acquitted. I know very well how bad the trade union movement is. I don't want to acquit anyone. But when we have so topical issues that relate to the way the capital operates, they cannot, devil, blame the workers there, some of whom went to some offices and left and didn't do their job well, etc. In general, the administration which is directly responsible for all the problems has the first responsibility to answer the problems. I would like you to allow me for a minute to read to you what the trade unionists say. They say things that they want to answer, not if they themselves have worked perfectly or with the greatest possible consistency. That may never be the case. But we - and you - have another role on this issue. The president says to them: “There are about three hundred buses, which are not going to come out again. And think that these vehicles have not been definitively accepted." What's that now? That's "bomba"! Secondly, it says: "Between vehicles, rotting in the trains, there are all four expensive two-storey buses that had been released during the Olympic Games, which were withdrawn a few months later and no relevant Minister was interested to be released again." Another "bomba"! What are these things now? I read them and say 'What's going on?' Thirdly, it goes on to say: 'The spare parts warehouse is almost empty, since for years the company has not been provided with spare parts'. I read them and say "May these things happen in Greece in 2016?" Minister, we need some answers which are essential. I say again not to acquit the bad employee, but that's not the problem right now. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u21	Minister, I don't give you the timer, but don't make a complete abuse. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much. No, we are not acquitting anyone, and, obviously, responsibilities are being necessitated as they should be. The previous administrations have very large political and management responsibilities. Mr. Lykoudis, not all trade unionists are the same. Some trade unionists have a name. I have no problem naming them in Parliament for their years of activity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u23	It is not Parliament's place to say such things. These are out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u24	I'm not saying, Mr. President. Some trade unions had a specific activity, because it was - and it is - the central old-fashioned mechanism of specific parties. They also had specific activity within urban transport to get to where we arrived. They have too much responsibilities. They have co-ordinated these agencies and have now suddenly discovered these distortions when they have responsibilities for this situation. Indeed, about 200 and fifty with three hundred buses, if I remember well, whose damage is much greater, the administration of the OSE may turn them down for withdrawal. There, however, the electronic equipment of the telematics system has not been installed. The second thing I would like to say, in order to continue the previous surge of my thoughts and to see how many responsibilities everyone who operates in one place has is what happened with the human resources, so that we can get over a thousand hundred, three hundred buses on the road and serve the citizens. We did a study, Mr. Lykoudi, of the assessment of the needs of the OSCE human resources and the real needs of staff by category. We proceeded, according to this study, with the approval of recruitment - approved by the ordinary budget - eight hundred people, most of whom are drivers, technicians and ticket controllers. How much will these people cost in this organization in its operation? EUR zero, because this money will be saved from the huge overtime and the day off, which we pay to existing staff. Some people have drunken it and some are taking advantage of it and voting: Who, that is, will be on a loose service, what guide will give battle over the steering wheel all day and make it adds to doing overtime, with all that that implies. Each bus has calculated that it does too many miles, about two thousand miles a day. We're talking crazy. Well, these people, who fight to serve the citizen, are really worthy of congratulations and gratitude from all of us. This is the only way that we are trying to meet the needs of human resources. The second objective is to renew the fleet. We did not find a euro despite what Mr Hatzidakis said about the renewal of the fleet. If we had a new fleet, indeed, we would have much less maintenance costs, spare parts and human resources in maintenance. We have also discussed with the European Bank and other sources of alternative scenarios and we have found 30 million from the ESRB to get five hundred new buses, there is a real need, for the needs of Athens and the Metropolitan Centre of Attica, to be able to say that we will have reliable transport. The second thing we do is on the planning level, which has been done for too many years. First of all, a design is made so that the trolley lines do not coincide with the bus lines. We want to have a design that will guide the citizens from the neighbourhoods of Athens, the metro stations and the means of fixed tracks, that is, to change the philosophy of the service of the world and of urban transport. The other thing I would like to say, to go to the President's question after all, is how important it was to complete the telematics project. For the world, for the citizens who serve daily with buses it is like leaving a third world and going to a European country, waiting for thousands of people at the bus stops on a boat hope for when the bus will come or when they will arrive! I believe that this has been recognised first and foremost by the citizens, rather than by anyone else. It is, in fact, useful this information system, The president said about the ticket escape. Anyone who says that he can count on how far the ticket escapes will lie to Parliament, Mr President. First, it's not measurable. Secondly, we cannot make reliable measurements from previous years, especially for the metro, but also for buses, because we did not have electronic systems, and why we had fake tickets and real tickets from the respective agency, which are being investigated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u25	There is, however, a phenomenon.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u26	Of course there is. How to deal with it now: This telematics system has nothing to do with the question of electronic tickets. They're two different systems that work together. In January, the electronic ticket system was completed on buses. And by June at the latest - we are fighting, to come far earlier - the online ticket will also be applied to the metro stations and the other means, the train and everything else. Mr President, you have also asked a few questions. It's not just bombs, but it's not in my culture, if you like, to start having a talk of scandal and scandalology. You said three things that, in fact, are gray. There is indeed a number of buses from quite old, which have not been definitively received. It's crazy! There are too many years on the streets, these agencies are using them, and they have not been definitively accepted. A procedure has been launched by the administrations of the agencies for the definitive receipt of these buses in exchange for - because there were disagreements with the supplier - to get several million euros free of charge in spare parts. I believe that this process is being completed in order to be able to close this supply, which is coming from too old. The buses are also used definitively. The same applies to four tourist buses. The agency was previously supplied with four buses, which cannot be used as tourist buses. In other words, as far as these two-storey buses are concerned, the OSH cannot currently use them with its license for these buses.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u27	What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u28	Because they have a different license. They're not tourist buses. And the framework of tourist buses is very specific, about who is allowed to have this activity. I'm telling you how we deal with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u29	Good! And why don't you bring an amendment to change the framework and allow the public to have tourist buses? We're talking about free competition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u30	It's ready, Mr. President. We were looking into it the other day.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u31	But one is ready, the other is ready...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Lykoudi, I understand what you're telling me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u33	We are well-meaning, but we also have some specific answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u34	I know, Mr. Lykoudi! If we had only to deal with this matter, it would be ready. Unfortunately, problems are too much. And with regard to the issue of spare parts - and I am closing with this - you have been in Parliament, you have participated and in your honour have voted for this draft law, with which we are completely changing the institutional framework of public procurement and public procurement, so that it can be done quickly, transparently, by electronic systems and, therefore, that we do not have the delays we have in bus parts as well. As to why these delays are taking place, I would like to tell you that in previous years the committees had tried to be intergroup, to be transparent, and to have no such issue in such major competitions. Sadly, however, these bodies are also steadfast. Those who, in other words, had dealt with such competitions, in which all the parties in this House actually participated, would find that one of the representatives of one party, the other, the other, the other, the same member of the committee, would not have been able to do so, so that this delay, together with the fact that every six and seven years will come to tender. I think that with the implementation of the electronic tender system in a few months, the process will be complete and we will not have the current problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u35	Minister, since you are here, I would like to ask you: as far as buses are concerned and not circulate are concerned, have you thought to call on all the mayors of the Lefkanopedio to give them one or two to each and to whomever they want to make and use them for intra-democratic transport?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u36	Yes, Mr President, we are doing this and the aim is...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u37	Have you called them? I'm telling you, because I've been told by mayors, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u38	Some of them...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u39	Do it systematically! Call them all!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u40	Some people want it and want it. However, the aim is not to have each municipality...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u41	Oh, no. I say this in the context of your organization.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u42	There must be an integrated design and internally in each municipality, in its intra-democratic transport. The municipalities have too many problems to be able to take a bus, to support it. They can't, you know that. But they can fill other gaps that they can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u43	In other words, think that even in the Municipality of Athens, Ano Kipseli, when a man has a court in Evpidon, he can't go. It needs to change two commuters.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u44	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u45	That could be solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u46	That is why the approach to what I said before, of the transport of citizens from the neighbourhoods of Athens to the station on the fixed tracks, also requires other fleets. In other words, we want smaller buses for the Athens neighborhoods so they can get into smaller ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u47	Uh, yeah, you're not gonna put the blowjob on. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u48	Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. I wish you a good weekend. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-11-S1-commons.u50	With the consent of the House at 10.56 a meeting on Monday, November 14, 2016 at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
