ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's 29-1-2016 authorisation, the minutes of the SZ's meeting of Friday 29 January 2016 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the European Parliament and of the Council on the adoption and pursuit of the activities of Insurance and Reinsurance (Solvency II) in Articles 2 and 8 of Directive 2014/51/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 amending Directives 2003/71/EC and 2009/138/EC and Regulations (EC). Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009, (EU) No 1060/2009, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 450/26-1-2016 of the New Democracy MP Evros, Anastasios Purchasias, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on compensation for the affected livestock farmers of Evros, both from the catastrophic winter floods 2014-2015 and from infectious LSD of bovine animals, as well as measures to protect and develop livestock farming. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Markos Bolaris. Mr. Prison has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, Minister, the Prefecture of Evros and its primary production have been hit many times in 2015. In particular, the livestock sector was affected by the destructive floods in winter 2014-2015 and by infectious lumpy skin disease. We had warned and made proposals, three written questions, to the Minister for Rural Development, in March 2015, in June 2015 and in August of the same year. From the disease eighty two breeds were affected in the village of Ferres, in the town of Ferres, with about four thousand cattle of which 10% were pregnant, about five thousand throughout the prefecture of Evros. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] A negative accelerator is the significant delay in the payment of compensation at prices, which, according to the people affected, corresponds to the prices of lambs rather than cattle. Multiple are the consequences for the livestock world of Evros, first of all, the capacity to bioliquidise these families is under threat. Naturally, the viability of the livestock farms is at risk as the amounts of compensation are not sufficient to replace lost animals and to ensure that these farms are properly and sustainable. Finally, these farmers are at risk of being excluded from the new CAP, although I have tabled a written question on this subject. So, Minister, two issues are raised: to ensure sustainability directly in the future of livestock farming and to protect it from potential similar, future risks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Therefore, on the basis of all the above, I would like to ask you two important questions: First of all, if you intend to consider optimising the compensation procedure and re-determine the compensation rates. In this context, do you intend to study the launch of re-establishment programmes for herds with resources from alternative sources, such as the NRP? Now, in February, will you pay the single balance of the CAP for 30%, the so-called 'principality'? Finally, what do you intend to do to promote the prevention of protection and innovation, generally primary production in Evros? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr Prussakis. Mr Marcos Bolaris, Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, has the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for the question, Mr Colleague. You understand that within the time limit of a timely question, the eight questions are not sufficiently answered. And I'm guessing you won't get any misunderstandings if I don't handle everything. I do not want to repeat to the House things that you and the Jewish farmers know very well. You know that follicular dermatitis for the first time has been in a European country. It's an epizootic epizootic that came from Africa. You know the vaccines came from South Africa to deal with them. You know that the vaccinations of tens of thousands of animals have taken place. And you also know that because we have destruction and livestock and family planning and damage to the local economy, the money given to producers on the basis of the joint ministerial decision, which set the prices for cattle according to the size of the cattle, were actually amounts which under no circumstances corresponded to the damage suffered by the other. That is why, when he visited our country and the Ministry, the European Commissioner for Health and Food Health, we raised these issues at the table and explained the situation. The vet enters the plant, finds follicular dermatitis, and that means that all the population of the plant must be slaughtered, that is, we destroy the operation. This is not done with a compensation we say 1,500 makes the cattle, and according to age, we give the money. It was understood by the committee that we also sent a personal letter to the two Commissioners, both to health and Georgia, to highlight the issue. The issues and the issues, as we have raised them, have been understood, because we have not been content to say that our country has this problem. We have indicated that the problem exists both in Bulgaria and Romania and in Poland and in Cyprus with other diseases and we have called for a change in European policy, so that with a European action plan, which we said we were prepared to lead, to address zoonoses issues in the outside of the country before entering the European Union. And it is a policy which is understood as a proposal. This, of course, means that the European Union must change its policy at committee level. So the answer from the European Union and Commissioners is in principle positive. Mr President, I shall continue to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleagues, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u6	Minister, your good intentions are given as a result of your political path and as a character and good mood you always show. However, you are asked to correct the errors, because you may say that you did everything possible, but the Ministry of Rural Development was informed much more time ago, when the zoonoses were on the coasts of Asia Minor, but we will not go there, because this has been historically recorded. Now it is about what the Ministry of Rural Development will do so that these people who have lost their lives - another hundred, another hundred fifty, eighty two families are, Mr President - to replace their livestock. The dairy cows that have lost today are doing 2,200 euros on the international market and on the Greek market. They, however, collected between EUR 600 and 700. I ask you on the basis of simple arithmetics: Can they? Secondly, they lost their lives and do not have daily milk, because that was their daily income. Others get wages. They took their milk and with it they could live their family. Can today live their four-member, five-member families, those who lost their lives? Do you have anything in your plan? Thirdly, have you considered whether to grant a loan or to obtain a guarantee from the Greek state or by means of tools given to us by the European Union or even others under the tax law in force in the country, or can you introduce for the first time? I would like to say, Mr President, that, for the first time, a farmer is being discussed for the first time, that he can be compensated by the Greek state and replace his livestock. So far they've taken something and the country's obligation was over. We are currently putting this issue in a state of biopolitics of these people and their families, in place of their livestock, to keep doing this. Because if we don't see these people, they'll be on the block. You know where we'll find them. Unfortunately, he's there. On the other hand, I would like to say that Evros is not just the European Union's beginning for everything. But it is also for the protection of Europe's livestock. I believe in science, because so far science has not been involved, Mr President. We suggest two things: There is the Institute of Exotic Diseases, which was founded and is located in Orestiad. It has been installed in a building, machinery has been provided and there is no such staff, scientific and technical staff, to be able to stand in the way of every zoonosis that tries to enter Greece every year, enter the Evros, enter Thrace, enter Europe. Secondly, we believe in establishing a veterinary school. Of course, it is unrealistic to discuss the establishment of a university. Mr President, you both know them better as a university and as a minister until now of education. But I would like to say that, since Europe wants to protect its livestock, it should do so through science. I think it can operate one - such as the Open University of Patras and the Thessaloniki equivalent - and with funds from the European Union to protect the European Union's livestock. We are proposing for the first time that the university should enter the production process and be linked to these farms which exist - fortunately from those that have been rescued - so that the teaching and theatres should be the Veterinary School. I think you are due, Minister, if you cannot, to suggest to the Commissioner responsible or to your counterparts that, since the zoonoses have found the way, and this road is Evros, then it must be stopped. And that's only mixed up with science, as I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Prussakis. The Deputy Minister, Mr. Bollaris, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, the pressures and the emergence of the problem at European Union level have had positive results for the country and for the affected farmers. First of all, the Commissioner has promised and has already secured the money which the state and the region have spent on vaccines and animal burials as a country. We're talking about millions of dollars. Second, the second dose of vaccines was ensured. Because as you know well, follicular dermatitis to be treated needs a second dose of vaccine, which should be done from spring onwards. They're also assured. A relevant storage of vaccines has been set up for the year in order to provide the farmers with timely and unsatisfactory information. What is most important and to which you are referring - you know that I described it in the letter to the European Commissioner - is that we have granted temporary exceptional aid to producers in the livestock sector. It concerns other Member States. The amount allocated to Greece is EUR 2288,000. This amount is our decision - the European Union has been informed - to be allocated directly to farmers in the beef sector on the basis of the following criteria. I read to you the document: Their activity in areas affected by lumpy skin disease, which intensified the problems and economic consequences of the crisis, both in the cow's milk sector and in meat. The second criterion is the level of production on 31 March 2015, which precedes the contraction of production due to lumpy skin disease. The condition is the restoration of any lost livestock until 31 April 2016. We've been putting in a year for rehab. This time shall be set to ensure that there is sufficient time to check any inertia, etc. A budget line has therefore been provided, which, by decision of the Ministry, is specifically intended for the group of affected farmers, dairy producers and not, in order to restore the livestock. It is a first decision, if you want, first victory in terms of dealing with zoonoses in the direction of the replacement of livestock. Is that enough? Oh, no. We need to continue, so that what is being done in exceptional circumstances today is a regime and compensation for lost milk, if we want to be honest and consistent with our producers, so that we can support livestock farming. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Deputy Minister for Rural Development, Mr Marco Bolaris. We move on to the next question in the same Ministry, which is the second question under No 448/25-1-2016, first question by Evia MEP, the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on'remuneration of farmers for the purpose of engaging in bluetongue'. Similarly, the Deputy Minister will answer Mr Bolaris. Mr. Micho, you have the floor to develop your question in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, despite the state's stated commitments to compensation for farmers who suffered considerable damage due to the pandemic of viral bluetongue in 2014, unfortunately there are still considerable amounts left. Several livestock farmers were severely affected by the infestations, while still waiting for compensation. It has either not yet been paid or a small part of it has been paid. Therefore, the affected livestock farmers have come into despair, failing to fulfil their economic uncertainties and the requirements of their professional activity. In particular, it is impossible to purchase livestock as well as to make statements to the IACS. The resolution of the livestock has obviously not been achieved. And I ask: have 22 to 23m euros been guaranteed, as was the government committed to refining livestock? And if so, what action do you intend to fulfil the outstanding claims for compensation? Secondly, given the great importance of the livestock sector in national production, is there a central realistic plan to address the issue of compensation, because a significant part of farmers have been despaired? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Micho. The Deputy Minister, Mr. Markos Bollaris, will answer his prototype for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u12	Colleague, blue fever has occurred since 2008. By 2012, occasional and gradual cases were recorded. Unfortunately, in May 2014, it began a epizootic disease, which drowned the whole country. In 2015, fortunately, we had only one outbreak in Rhodes. About the compensation. Compensation shall be made with the FCH, issued in July 2015. Based on this, expenditure on compulsory killing and disposal for destruction and burial of slaughtered animals has been paid, a purchase subsidy approved by the FDA of medicinal products and compensation for livestock farmers for disposal. On this basis, in 2014 and 2015 for bluetongue, a total of EUR 1338,000 has been paid. Of these 738,000 euros were paid in 2014. The remaining, most of which were 2014 compensation, were paid in 2015, i.e. around EUR 600,000. There are a few producers who have not been covered. The very large number has been covered. And in the question of whether the money in the budget has been secured, I would like to tell you that for 2016, and because the problem with epizootic diseases, zoonoses is intense in the country - and the previous question, as you have seen with my colleague Mr Dührkop, has in this case been mentioned - has been guaranteed for the country's livestock resolution programme and has been entered in the budget for a total budget of 22,331,000 euros. This appropriation is intended to cover the implementation of individual programmes to deal with each of the zoonoses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Micho, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u14	Thank you. This particular farmer has also sent me pictures. I won't mention his name to protect this man. I don't need to mention it, because we know what's going on with some public services and he can find his trouble along the way. So he tells me that for 11 months from the three hundred sheep he had, he lost the two hundred in 2014 because of bluetongue. This damage has only been compensated for twenty sheep. This money was received ten months ago. It has suffered a great deal of disaster and the competent authorities are aware of it. It should be noted that fifty - three of the two hundred ten sheep will not be paid, even though it has a certificate. I've got them all here. I'll erase his name and bring them to you. It's with seals on the vet, and whatever it takes. The reason why they did not justify them is that slaughter was carried out only once a week and animals could not stand because of fever and died. When the dead were gone, they would throw them away and they wouldn't record them. Of course, he is in complete despair, and he asks what he must do to meet, pay his obligations and put food into his stable at the right time, which is cheap, so he can feed. From there on, with all these measures taken by the government, it criminalizes farmers. I don't throw it all at you. We had previous governments, PASOK and the New Democracy, which brought Memorandum 1 and Memorandum 2, which signed and Memorandum 3 where they knew what would happen, what measures would be taken and that no one would be compensated. On the other hand, you are strengthening banks, canals and contractors instead of supporting farmers. There has been four times that the banks will not go bankrupt and you have left farmers and farmers. You left, in other words, the people they produce. We're talking about a productive class. And you are now preparing, with the new measures, to take the homes of farmers and farmers, with the red loans, when you give five hundred and fifty million to "HOCHTIEF", to the Germans who have come to our homes and say "we are not paying you VAT". You are giving loans to domestic pimps, canals and germs. They take all the big funds from the ESRB, instead of giving farmers, farmers, small businessmen, small and medium-sized enterprises and other productive groups. That's counterproductive. How will they cope? So, on the one hand, it's the diseases. On the other hand, sixteen, eighteen million euros have been paid in ELGA, if I remember well, and they have been returned to farmers - from their own money, from their own money - only six. Where'd the rest of the money go? If you don't do something, the farmers will be finished, and the farmers will be finished, and everyone will be finished! They've got the roadblocks. Nobody's leaving. They're closing the border of Promachona. They fight for what belongs to them. You said you'd stand by them, but you didn't. You continue the policy of the New Democracy and PASOK. They're the only ones who are productive - I say it again - and go make them counterproductive and throw them aside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Micho. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u16	Mr Colleague, you have raised a specific question. I answered you with figures exactly on this question. You now want to make a political position invoking the facts, but without focusing on the issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u17	The facts are those.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u18	Because there is a particular issue, I ask you to give me the information and if there is a producer who is wrong, we are here to consult with the services and to waive any injustice that has been done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u19	I'll get you all you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u20	You'll bring in the evidence so we can get in touch with the agency.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u21	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u22	And if you want us to be useful and solve the matter, you won't be able to erase the names so that we can come to an agreement. In any case, this is a process which will be initiated through the services. And it will move with objectivity to bring justice. The money, then, has been given to farmers. You have a specific example. Give it to see it, and if there is a question either by overlooking, or by mistake, to deal with and solve whatever problem there is if it moves within the framework of the laws. There's always this condition. You asked about farmers and I would like to say that there is a number of measures provided for in the Rural Reconstruction Programme. Seven of these aims are to support livestock farming and producer groups, to improve the verticalisation, to young farmers, to young farmers and to new products, which start with the new programming period. It is a challenge for both farmers and young children and for those who objectively have the potential to enter primary production, whether as farmers or as farmers, to exploit these programmes and to get into the production process. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Minister. The next question is again before you. We enter, on the third with number 441/25-1-2016, a topical question by MP Aetolokarnania of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on delays in the permits of livestock establishments due to the non-issuance of acts characterisation of land from the Forest of Amphichia. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Marcos Bolaris. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor to develop your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u24	Thank you. Minister, the farmers of Atolokarnania are in despair. They see their industry leading to extinction. In the Prefecture of Aetolokarina, hundreds of farmers have submitted applications for statutory permits. No answer, no progress in their request. The Amphichia Forestry is stacked by nine hundred farmers' applications for evaluation by Mountain Valto, Perdiki and Emesos. And yet, the adoption of characterisation acts has substantially swept away. This means that farmers who have been included in measure 214 and in particular in Action 1.2, ‘Biological livestock’, as well as in Action 3.1, ‘Conservation of endangered indigenous breeds of agricultural animals’, are at risk of losing aid under State responsibility. And you know why, Minister? Because issuing the statistical facility licence is a prerequisite for their payment. Farmers have all paid large sums of money for the licensing of their establishments and for their inclusion in the programmes and are now in the process. Thus, without authorization, they risk losing valuable resources for local development of Community resources. They are in the air and, unfortunately, face the frugality of the state. They have done all the planned actions themselves and waited for the Forestry to rule. Isn't that absurd? The same is true of those who joined measure 112, ‘Installation of Young Farmers’ and measure 121 ‘Modernisation of agricultural holdings’. This situation, combined with the issue that has arisen with the distribution of pastures and the imminent tax raid, leads farmers to impoverishment. Mr Minister, until now you have in no way detracted from the agricultural world. You have not improved the position of farmers, nor the function of the primary sector. Of course, this is not only due to the Ministry of Rural Development, but to the general government's policy. So I ask you: What measures will the Ministry take to solve the great and unjust problem faced by the farmers of Atolokarnania with the permits for the establishment and operation of livestock units, in particular in the mountain Valtos, Ezesos and Perdikakis, and in general in the mountain range of Mount Valtos. How will you ensure that Community aid is not lost? How do you plan to support the development of livestock farming in the Law and in general Greece? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. From the first day I went to the Ministry, Mr Colleagues, they raised the same issue - among all other things - the problem, that is, the issue of the authorisation of staging establishments, livestock establishments. The bill is relatively new. It was adopted in 2012. But it's complicated. It has a great deal of bureaucracy and it raises issues like what you have referred to. As long as I can tell you that while the stable facilities, which need authorisation, are many tens of thousands, the licences issued under the existing law are only a few hundred. This means that we need intervention to change the legislative framework. This is where the Ministry moves. A committee has been instructed to set up which does not only involve officials but also representatives from representative organisations from the farmers' organisations, which is intended to introduce simplification of the procedure, exemption from time-consuming bureaucratic features, so as to speed up the process and, of course, to reduce the costs of building the staging plant, which creates huge issues in the livestock sector. I must say to you, of course, that because, precisely because the legal framework has created these issues, which you have referred to, there has been an intervention in the last law on pastures, which has been extended eighteen months to prevent farmers from facing problems with the stack facilities, but also with their subsidies, so that in which time they are intervening, we can be able to intervene in the direction that you have referred to. In other words, we should be in a position to amend the existing legal framework so that we can have the best possible result in faster times and, of course, to alleviate the farmers' burdens from unreasonable burdens, because this also has this characteristic of existing legislation. On the point you have raised, I should like to tell you that the debate with Ioannina is also targeted. There is a change in the legislative framework and a big issue concerning the country's mountainous mountains and has been put on the table by Ioannina. It is an issue that concerns the establishment and operation of slaughterhouses with a view to facilitating farmers to have access without having huge transport costs in a slaughterhouse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Constantopoulos, Member of the Eotolokarnania Parliamentary Assembly of the PASOK - DIMAR, has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u28	Minister, we're talking about a powerful productive web. We're talking about a new productive reconstruction that's gonna get the country out of the deadlock. But nothing on the record. While the economic crisis and unemployment are in red, initiatives to support the primary sector are considered necessary. The proposals are not inexistent. Minister, I come to the farmers of Atolokarnania, my country. It will be criminal at this difficult economic juncture for farmers to lose their money. It's money they deserve. It is your duty to ensure that this is prevented. Already their income has shrinked to an extent that they can no longer support the development of livestock farming. The additional taxes increase the cost of production vertically. The increase in VAT on agricultural supplies, fertilisers, pesticides, animal feed from 13% to 23%, which has been in force since last July, is a burden on the situation. The total abolition of the Special Consumption Tax, the increase in VAT in 23% in packed foods, HNPHA, which you said you would abolish but eventually imposed it apart from the home and the field and the warehouse and the stanza, the increases in the income tax rate, the increase in the advance payment of the tax and the forthcoming huge increases in insurance contributions, will be a graveyard for the rural area. Minister, see the streets of the whole country. They're excluded from the farmer's roadblocks. You have been honoured with a second chance, and today you are giving them the final blow! They're screaming out of agony. But you, Minister, and the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, have your ears closed in your offices, misled by the intoxication of power. You're fighting small and medium-sized farms and opening the way to great interests! This has nothing to do with productive reconstruction, which you promised at the site in both January 2015 and September 2015. It has nothing to do with social justice in whose name you shared fruitfruits hopes. It has nothing to do with the Left, its content and its history. Minister, even at the last hour you take decisions to prevent the primary sector from being destroyed. Give hope and perspective to the rural world. Give hope and perspective to young people involved in livestock and agriculture. Take care of the services. Set up a long-term agricultural policy. Please give tomorrow morning, Minister - please personally - an order to complete the evaluation of applications for the establishment and operation of livestock units in the mountain Valto, Edessos and Perdiki. Set the foundations for returning to growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u30	Mr Colleague, the approach I have on the issues, I want it to be positive rather than destructive. You asked a question. I told you that the Ministry has recorded the matter and that it is moving to resolve it. You insist. If you insist, I will tell you that the question when it comes to the office is not addressed to this ministry. Another ministry is responsible for the office. But I say to you that the framework of the law, which was passed by the previous governments, is bureaucratic and has created huge problems. With registered needs for extradition of thirty, one hundred forty thousand permits, six hundred thirteen have been issued. That's the grid. The legal framework is completely ineffective. In this direction, as I have explained, we are moving to change it. The committee's working. Now, I understand that there must be opposition. Good. It is important that the people who are listening to us understand that in this place, beyond the game of transferring responsibility from one wing to another, there are good things going on. There are our fellow citizens in the livestock sector, in the agricultural sector and in the manufacturing sector, who have the best results. It is also the government's conviction and speaking to him personally, but also to society, that the productive sector, the primary sector, has all the potential for the production of wealth, for the support of families, people who attempt, local economies, the national economy, with product certification, with exports. That is why I will tell you, quickly, about the challenges of the Rural Reconstruction Programme. Support for cooperation with producer groups and funding from the Rural Reconstruction Programme. Support for integrated production, both in the livestock and in the agricultural sector. Supporting product quality certification, with concrete actions and funding, in the direction we have just said. The production of energy from renewable sources, both in livestock and in agricultural units. And - something that comes in with great intensity - collective use and treatment of waste, both from livestock and from processing plants. Specific money in specific programs. Challenge for the primary sector, for our farmers, for the producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Minister Bolaris. We'll keep you for the next question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u32	You're generous, Mr. President! Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u33	We continue with the 15th under the number 433/22-1-2016 topical question by MP Serres of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DMAR Mr.Michael Jelloni to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the conditions for eligibility of the beneficiaries of the associated rice aid. The question will be answered - as we have said - by the Deputy Minister, Mr Marcos Bollaris. Mr. Jeleigh, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Deputy Minister, an unprecedented and suffocating situation is experienced by the rice producers in our country. We have three hundred thousand acres in 2015 and two hundred and fifty thousand tons of rice production. Today, in theory, we should be at the peak of rice absorption. But the opposite happens, taking my county as an example. Ten rice-producing communities sent me a letter, like you, - I submitted it - with regard to 15 December. Of the twenty-four million pounds, even 10% has not been absorbed. The corresponding is also the case throughout the Greek territory. In the Hallastra of forty thousand tons, not even a thousand five hundred pounds have been absorbed. In the Second Halastra Cooperative of the fifty thousand tons even four million pounds have not been absorbed. There is a great concern among the rice producers about the related rice aid. Pursuant to Regulation 1307/2013 on related aid per product, in order to be competitive, there is a ministerial decision by your Ministry under No 924/21-5/2015 that determines in Article 3 that the rice producers must deliver the quantities of rice and invoice them by 28 February to qualify for the associated rice aid of EUR 26 per hectare. You understand very well that today is impracticable and utopian. That is why I ask - and I ask now, on 27 January, I made it a timely question, since the Ministry did not reply to me - whether it is the Ministry's intentions to introduce a more flexible arrangement for the redefinition of the eligibility conditions of the associated rice producers. I propose an extension, an extension of at least three months.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Jelloney. Mr Bollaris, Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Comrade, you're right. And great production we have also produced white rice, which in previous years had been easily absorbed by neighbouring countries. This year, because they have realised that there is a large amount, there is the well-known game that trade makes in order to drop the price. In other words, quality rice that was absorbed last year at 42 minutes, this year they give 25 minutes and they leave. The situation is as you described it. There are really huge amounts of unclaimed. There is a dialogue on this issue, which has come to an end. It is clear that merchants, too, know that there is a deadline by February 28, are attempting to blackmail. They know that if the quantities are not invoiced, the rice producers are in danger of losing the associated product and therefore have a lever of pressure. To this end, the Ministry in consultation with OPEKEPE has requested and decided to extend one month. You'll see her posted tomorrow morning. I have the mail, but you'll see it officially uprooted. That's first. Because we should first of all send a message to the market, to trade, that they will not blackmail producers to take the rice at 2/3 of last year's price. You know there's another objective difficulty, which says the connection has to be paid by 30 June. So there is one issue which concerns the services, whether cross-checks can be made, so that the second payment can be made by 30 June. In the first phase, then, what I am telling you from this Step is that there is a previous decision for an extension of up to 28 March. And we hope that this issue will be resolved within this period. If it's not solved, we're here. The message to those who are trying to take advantage of this year's situation, by pressuring producers, is clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u38	First of all, I am pleased that you have noted the problem. I think, however, that what is being done today under pressure from time to time, where, with reference and question, I have brought this issue from December, it has enabled a piece of trade to compress prices, as mentioned above, to 50% and less. On the other hand, however, I must point out that we do not see a corresponding reduction in consumer prices, and we must take this into account. Consumer prices remain at the same level. On the other hand, the Ministry did not take into account - in May, when it took off the circular, there were still no capital controls, afterward, but the recession was also visible, but the capital controls were now a reality - that at the moment and the merchants want to absorb the specific quantities of the country, they do not have the corresponding liquidity. It should be borne in mind that the manufacturing undertakings need at least three to four months for the processing of the product and then for them to be marketed. We therefore need to take care from the Ministry - because we are talking about competitive outward-looking agriculture, etc. - to ensure that there is equivalent liquidity, since the responsibility for capital controls lies solely with the government. One month, I'm stressing it again, it's not enough. Three hundred thousand acres of rice are now recorded in the OPEKEPE's paper background. Producers are well known. So it takes a month at most so that the services can make the tied payment. We do not have to take it a month - a month at a time when the financial pressure on producers is great, when they have already taken only 50% of the single payment, when they expect to get on the government's side a number of allowances from the remaining 50% of the single payment. Obligations run. So do not wonder why we are seeing the culmination of agricultural mobilization today. I say that the insurance and tax, what has been heard, is the drop that has spread the glass of anger in the rural world. Because your policies in 2015, which are also marked in this case by the corresponding policy you have implemented in the rice-related policy, which you are now going to get - day after day, all that creates is problems in the primary sector, price cuts in farmers and therefore make them non-productive and get them out of rural activity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Jelloney. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u40	So the problem is recorded, Mr President, as you said, with the Minister's information from the agricultural world itself, with interventions and cooperation with the major organizations of Thessaloniki and the Serres and Aetolakarnania. The ministry is moving to find a solution to the problem, so that the associated people are also paid to farmers, not to be rampant and pressured, but under no circumstances to jeopardise the second instalment and to lose European money for sure, which is going to the rice producers. I'd think by closing you'd show goodwill. Because you see that the issue you have raised from the Ministry is mature and a solution has been given. And if this time doesn't come, we're here to manage it. So the message to the rice producers is that the Ministry is intervening and giving the solution, ensuring the second dose, so that we do not definitely risk money from the related one. If there is any other development, we are here to deal with and to give a solution, with great interest and support and anxiety, to the daily problem that the producer has in the field, the stigma, the vineyard, the olive grove. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food. Today he has his honour with four topical questions. We move to the third with No 443/25-1-2016 top-level question of the first cycle of the MP Iraklio of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGlou Vassiliou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the evaluation and continuation of the "House and Reintegration" programme. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Theanos Fotou. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor to develop his question in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, it is well known that the years of the crisis have increased the problem of housing for many thousands of our fellow citizens. I am also referring, of course, to those who lose their home and are on the way, either to reception centres and hostels, and to those who are in danger of losing it because of the inability to keep it by paying the rent. The Deputy Minister for Rural Development, when he was responsible, recommended the introduction of the concept of homeless in 2012. On this basis, we have prepared the Housing and Reintegration programme as a practical pilot, because it is about the housing of a thousand two hundred fellow citizens who are mainly in guesthouses and should go to a permanent residence. This is a very difficult process, of course, because it is not only the economic issue, it is the psychosocial support and the management of things, but many times the refusal of people who have entered this stage to join and regain home. It's hard. This program, which was for 2015, was processed and we had it settled by the end of 2014, if I remember correctly, and in 2015 it has evolved. Obviously, the implementation will also take place in 2016. What I would like to see - because it provides for, apart from housing and for a percentage, reintegration into work for those who can and can - if it has been evaluated positively - by now at least - the programme and if you intend to continue to finance it either for the same people or by expanding the number of people who can join it. I note that for those who are in danger of losing their home, the rent subsidy programme is very important because it prevents this situation, if there are other conditions, because in itself a subsidy may not give a solution, but it is something that will help not to increase the number of people who will be found either on the road or on hostels. And I would like to see how you intend to continue this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Vice-President has the floor, Mr Theanos Fotio, for her first answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Kegeroglu, you personally, when he was headed by the Secretary of State for Welfare at the Ministry of Labour, supervised this pilot project and instructed the HR as the managing authority to implement it. That's right. You said it was a pilot program. First of all, I would like to say that we consider it to be a very interesting and extremely positive programme, which gives us various possibilities to understand things, for example through the rental subsidy that we made in the humanitarian crisis programme, we do not see with the clear and targeted scale of the 'House and Reintegration' programme. So we have, if you will, embrace the programme and implement it very carefully. As you know, the thousand seventy-three beneficiaries joined and signed the programming contracts in January 2015. From there on, we had to create the benefits profiles, explore all their assets and all their tax assets, precisely so that we could see the program from there and beyond. That took us a long time. That is to say, it reached us in June 2015. In the meantime, four bodies have responded to the programme. Most of the municipalities are currently implementing the programme. You will remember very well that one of the terms of the programme for its completion - of course, the first dose and the first part of the programme - we implemented it, which is why we spent 30% of the money as planned - that is, one of the conditions for the implementation of the programme to the end, was integration into work. This, as you quite rightly said, is extremely difficult, because we are talking about very vulnerable groups, with very specific features. So, of those who joined the programme, today seven hundred and sixty-eight people have already been housed, just as the municipalities find them, but also the various institutions. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I shall continue in my dentistry. However, many municipalities, such as the Municipality of Piraeus, Phylis, Aspropyrgos, Vyrona, Kifisias and Patras, have still not responded, i.e. they have not been able to find them at home. Of all these, a hundred and sixty-one people have found a job. It seems too little, but you know how difficult it is and what a wretch it is to find a job. Their own business is doing three in Athens, one in New York and one in Igoumenitsa, because there are many people who have already lost their business. It is not easy, in other words, to re-activate themselves into COMPAs and others. We, therefore, have had the following dilemmas so far: Or are reviewing the programme's condition, that 30% of those who have entered the programme must find jobs, place in the labour market or extend the programme, which expired on 31-12-2015. We have chosen the second solution to extend the programme because, as I said, we expect to draw a lot of conclusions from it. So we do this and at the same time you know that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u45	The rest of you can tell your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u46	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u48	The debate could have been concluded with the question and the answer because it seems from what the Minister said to us that the programme - despite the slight delay due to the fact that this was the case in the first stage - is in full progress and despite the difficulties that exist for people who are alienated from the family environment, but also from the concept of work, from every point of view of activity - the figure mentioned - is sixty-one, although it seems to be very small in relation to the problems that exist in this category of people. It is a pilot and innovative programme at the same time and will give us, as you have rightly said, the possibility - and I would say it in my secondary speech - to draw conclusions on the quality of the interventions that we need to make in this difficult area of people who are from one day to the other homeless and then it is very difficult to reinstate themselves, to resocialise. So I think that the Ministry's policy for the continuation of the programme is very positive. I hope that there will also be an economic possibility, in order to broaden and implement such an innovative programme, such as - because I forgot to say it - I did not mention it - quite rightly said that it is implemented by a ministry of the Ministry where at the same time it acquires the know-how and the possibility of things we can do tomorrow. So, in the part of the question concerning enlargement and the continuation of the programme, I think I have received a positive answer and I, as far as I can, encourage the continuation of this programme, even from the position I am in today. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Foreign Minister has the floor, Mr. Theanos Fotio, to answer for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr Kegeroglu, for your good words, which I will pass on to all the Minister's colleagues, but above all to the U.S.H.A., who really are fighting for this programme, which is so difficult but also extremely interesting. As you know, there is already - for the know-how you mentioned - an electronic platform that was given to providers throughout Greece and we are centrally monitoring the whole story. We plan within this month four major gatherings, in Crete, in northern Greece, in the Peloponnese and Athens. We will, in other words, gather all the other municipalities in Athens, precisely to discuss the particular problems with them and to see solutions on the ground to progress with the programme. That shows how important we consider it. At the same time, we have submitted to the NSRP a programme for the overall recording and monitoring of the homeless, and of course we will continue this programme and its evaluation by the NSRC, a body implementing it already, but we will also call for other bodies that can help us in its evaluation. We are discussing a lot of things about redesigning it on certain points, because, as you said, perhaps a very basic thing is the multiplication of the number of guesthouses, day centres and napkins, rather than trying to find a way to rent apartments, because you know that we have great reactions so far in some municipalities to find these apartments. We need public awareness and we hope that we will move on to this part as well. Also, in the same direction we are planning to convert buildings belonging to the Welfare General with a programme for their digital recording and others that we have already made to the NSRF in order to convert into day-to-day centres and hostels to address the great expansion of the phenomenon of ad hoc. At the same time, we have all the other policies and we are trying to work out the three other categories of homeless people, which, as you know from the definitions given, concern other groups which are larger and more. Perhaps one of the programme's problems - and I say it because we are having this debate and I would also like your personal contribution to the Ministry, whatever you want - is that we have mixed up in this programme many sources from where these homeless people come from. Perhaps we should see more targeted at which of the four categories we are doing this. But that's in the conversation and yes, it's in our great desire to make this programme very lively and real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Deputy Minister, Mr. Fotou. We move to the thirteenth third, with number 437/25-1-2016, a topical question for the second-round question of the Radical Left Coalition, to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on the protection of the Forest of Saints Theodoros, in the local community of Rapsani, a municipality of Lower Olympia of the Municipality of Tempus. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Chironis. Mrs Bagena has the floor for two minutes to develop her question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to start this question personally. It is my first timely question as a Member of Parliament and I am happy and moved - if you like - because it concerns Rapsani, Kato Olympus, which is the village of origin of my father, George Vageas. But that's not all. I want to tell you that Kato Olympus is a wonderful area, too - very beautiful. All his villages are beautiful, just like the Tempes, which are underneath. That's where Kato Olympus ends. I believe that taking advantage of this whole region of tourism and culture must go to the priorities of our Government and it will be very important, because I firmly believe that tourism in combination with culture can be a huge national chapter - perhaps the only one - for our country. That's as an introduction. The forest of Saints Theodoros is a unique case where the natural heritage is married to the history, culture and the deeply rooted religious feeling of the inhabitants. The forest is located opposite the village of Rapsani at an altitude of about 430 meters. In the middle of the forest is the Monastery of Saints Theodoros, in which he owes his name and his name. It is a monument of unique historical and religious importance. After all, this is a self-ingenious oak forest, where there are also ultra-perennial oaks, helmets, horns and various rich shapes. The forest, at least to date, has become a refuge for a multitude of rare birds but also insects, so as to strengthen significantly, not only its historical and religious importance, but also its environmental importance. In the beginning of December 2015, the Larissa Forest Office, invoking such a management study, has repeatedly attempted to intervene in the forest for the purpose of limited logging, with particular concern to the municipality and the local community for the consequences of such action. The objections of the inhabitants and the municipality were based on the need to protect the virginity of the forest in which there had been no logging for more than two hundred years. There is no doubt that the intervention of the Forestry - which has already been completed - has been carried out according to the approved management study. It was therefore carried out according to the letter of the law. But did this happen with the spirit of the law? For according to Article 24(1) and (6) of the Constitution, both natural and cultural heritage must enjoy the protection which is appropriate to the particular circumstances which determine their uniqueness. After all, it must not be forgotten that the younger science lessons in most cases have confirmed the need to update the management studies to take advantage of the national forests which are the property of the Greek people themselves. This is because a study of the second half of the 20th century responds little to modern perceptions of sustainable development and enhanced protection of our forest wealth. For these reasons it is necessary to assess the consequences of the already involved logging. I'll also file reports from the local press. We therefore await the position of the Deputy Minister on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Bagena. The Deputy Minister has the floor, Mr Chironis, to answer. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Commissioner, the question is very important because, as you quite rightly said, it is another thing the type of law and another thing the essence is. You will allow me to prototype for fellow citizens and citizens to explain the type of case, and then, in secondary terms, I will also speak about the substance. Here we are talking about a forest which is not characterised as a protected forest, because the Forest of Larissa - and in time and old - does not consider it to be present - says - has a particular scientific, aesthetic, ecological and geomorphological interest and does not have a protective effect on soils and groundwater and others. On the other hand, the area is indeed NATURA and there is this study, which is an excellent study - I have extracts and I will present them in the Minutes - which has been made by the Hellenic Centre for Biotopes and Wetlands of the Goulandris Museum of Natural History. I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Ioannis Tsironis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is therefore not a study for the types, it is a study of the substance, which is indeed stated that there must be a preservation of the old and dead trees and of the residues of the logs. In other words, this study does not exclude logging, which, of course, refers to the protection of species, in particular species protected, in particular, some of the most important birds and species. In this sense, if we respect the current management study - which, from 2011 onwards, is not an old study - we are obliged to carry out controlled logging as the study puts in, of course, protecting those nested trees. So that is the reason why the public administration has now developed, and which I think is entirely legitimate from there and beyond, if we judge a forest, which is even in an NATURA area. I will respond to my denology of what could be done to view this forest as a forest which is a preserved monument of nature and everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Bagena, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I mean, as you said, the studies and all of them are very nice, but the local society is sometimes more wise and the people who live in this forest and in this village all their lives and their ancestors may sometimes have no scientifically documented opinion, but for me it is the right thing to do. So, all the local society doesn't want to walk in this woods. That's not metaphysical. We've got to figure it out. I believe that whatever energy we do, we need to take account of local societies, not as dogma, nor as deaf-headed, but as knowledge, the experience of the people who live, breathe and grow in these places. They often have a wisdom that we should take into account. That's what I mean. We must not do things that come to be 'handed' in the views of local communities, when they of course see that they do not have any interests of another kind behind them, because there are no other interests here. There's only people's love for their forest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Baguea. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. You're absolutely right, Ms. Constable. In my prototype I referred to the fact that there can be no divorce between the type of law and the wisdom of local societies. I would like to mention that, despite the fact that for a hundred years now Greece has, in fact, been a pioneer from the few countries in Europe, of sustainable forest management, at this time I admit that it has been implementing outdated standards for the preparation of management studies, according to the 1953 Circulars which are one and the other of 1965. So, right now, there are much more modern perceptions about how we can take advantage of the forest. This is the first deficit, which really needs intensive work to overcome. Because these studies we have and we are working with them right now. From there on, with regard to the other issues that local society is rightly concerned about, and I fully share it, we have had four solutions that have not been implemented. First of all, it could be considered a ‘maintainable monument of nature’. This can be done if it is proposed by local government and, of course, a specific environmental study is approved if a monument of nature is maintained. Just the fact that it belongs to the Olympus area, on which the Presidential Decree is on, is enough to consider it. The second question is that it could enter the status of the protected landscape, where this has not been done either by the local government which has to start these actions. Because there are areas of major ecological and geological importance. Unfortunately, this thing has only been done in Greece for anthropogenic monuments. Another issue, which is extremely important in protected areas, is to categorize it in a UNESCO monument. Unfortunately, so far only archaeological sites and monuments have entered the UNESCO monuments in Greece and have never entered monuments of nature. This is the inadequacy of Greek society, unfortunately. We have a tragic shortage here. Let me mention attributes that in the first category, of the preserved monuments of nature, only two new designations have been introduced since 1985 from all - I am sorry, you will forgive my poor memory - only fifty and two have in Greece and two after 1985. So here the job is dramatically little. Let me mention the last category, it could extend the archaeological site of the Monastery of Agios Theodoros with the agreement of the Archaeological Service, provided that it includes the forest around, as is done in so many other monuments that we have in Attica, which include the surroundings, the forests that must be considered as a preserver in ancient times. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Wait a minute and I'll be done. On this basis, therefore, I must say that we really must admit that in Greece what we say nature has never been treated as wealth. Local societies - and we all have a responsibility as a society, it is not just government responsibility - and we have all been dealing with all these protection rules and now I find you four alternatives. We've never seen ourselves as a head starter. We have always seen it as a brake, with a great deal of reservation, with the result that local societies often, and that is to the credit of the people there, have been faced with such restrictions as a brake on the development of the residential, commercial and other countries that have all these wonderful monuments, have suffered something and have no economy. You really are right - and I'm ending up - that could be the kind of designations that could be considered as a headstroke for growth. To say, the village of Vineyards in the area has only thirty thousand visitors a year, 90% of which are students of the neighbouring schools of Larissa for one-day trips. Foreigners from the millions of tourists from Kalambakas and Platamonas even know that there is this historic village there, how much more forests like Rapsani. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Minister. Without wanting to abuse the position I am, one of these four solutions that you have said, why should the local society as a legal process start from there and not start from the Ministry in so far as we recognise that the protection of this forest is also a developmental dimension, whether as a preserved monument or as a protected one? Why should we wait for local society to start the process? Ms. Baguea has already mentioned the concern of the residents.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u60	To answer again that it is a purely legislative issue: how, from whom to apply, from whom to whom the study is described, how it reaches us and whether this thing can change. But I think that's how it's supposed to be. Apart from the archaeological beginning with the Archaeological Service, I think that's how the local society should start here after all is where it starts. So why not?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u61	Can I answer that, Mr President? I don't know the process well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u62	It is not provided for in the procedure, but you can see the Minister. If you want to wait, one more question will remain here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u63	However, the municipality there is active and they will do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u64	Very good. Get something out of the conversation at least. We move to the thirteenth, with number 438/25-1-2016, a timely question for the second question by the MP of Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenides to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the immediate treatment of the arbitrary issue and the lifting of the political hostage of the owners of arbitrary buildings. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Ioannis Tsironis. Mr. Igoumenides has the floor for two minutes to develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, our Government is faced with the problem of arbitrariness, which in Heraklion Prefecture and other areas of the country with "blue cities", has an explosive dimension and requires radical response. I am using the word 'absolute cities', in my opinion, without exaggeration, since there are cities where 50% to 80% of their buildings are arbitrary constructions, because in some of these last fifty years there has been no or minimal expansion of town plans. In the city of Heraklion, for example, with a population of two hundred thousand, more than 60% of the buildings need to be settled as arbitrary. In the wider area of Heraklion's town complex, in the municipality of Gazios since 1923, which has been recorded as a settlement with sixty-one inhabitants until now, almost a century later, where more than twenty-five thousand inhabitants were recorded, there was no interference in the town plan. The result is that more than 80% of Gazio's buildings are arbitrary. A similar picture is observed in the eastern Attica and in other areas of the Lefkanope and Greece. I believe that the problem of arbitrary cities, first of all, reflects the lack of the Greek state in dealing with the problem of population concentration in urban centres, the diagnosis of urban needs and the financing of town projects in large-scale areas of population concentration. With the policy pursued so far by the PASOK and New Democracy governments, the problem of arbitrary ones has, on the one hand, been exploited and, on the other hand, it has been exploited in the search for electoral clienteles through the political hostage of arbitrary owners with promises of legitimacy. Minister, as a result of the continuation of the activity we had in Heraklion after a wide meeting that took place last Friday afternoon in the House, we had a very long meeting with you with bodies of Local Government and the Association of Churches of Heraklion, where it emerged not only the problem of the Law, but also the will of the state for a substantial solution to it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done. However, because the problem of arbitrary construction concerns the country as a whole, I would like this Step forward to ask you: You will be given - you said - an extension after 8 February. Are you planning a new legislation with a drastic reduction in fines - I stress it - so that a definitive and irrevocable solution can be given and the political hostage of arbitrary owners can be lifted? Secondly, in what direction does the Ministry make to resolve, in parallel with the question of the settlement of the arbitrary, and the problem of financing the plans for the towns of the arbitrary cities, a question that concerns a vast proportion of Greek society, as well as the problem of simplifying and speeding up the processing of new town plans where they need to be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Igoumenides. The Deputy Minister, Mr Ioannis Tsironis, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, you are raising a hot issue of Greek society, the hundreds of thousands of real estate, which, to a small or large extent, are considered arbitrary, a word which, in the favoured states of the rest of Europe, is difficult to translate. No one can understand what arbitrary construction means in France, England, in other countries. It is a pitiful reality, which has been attempted to solve in an inadequate way, in our view, by Mr von Wogau. 4178. It is the first law on arbitrariness that was considered and constitutional, because the others were completely unconstitutional, because it was a law, which was based mainly on collective logic, i.e. depending on the arbitraryness of paying someone, without taking into account the right things you said, namely whether this arbitrary is out of plan, because the state was unable to make plans in areas extensive, in cities full, whether it is a genuine arbitrary one, which really violates the law, because someone who is entitled to it 60 sq.m., built 600 sq.m., because that was why he was coveted, because he was greedy, whether there are simple arbitrary buildings, which are essentially not affecting the total volume, but in practice, even the buyer to ignore that what he bought and the recommendation for horizontal ownership is not the same thing as it was placed in the licence. There are such flaws. All of this law did not stand out, so that we actually have - to say it frankly - a law ending in February - ends on 8 February - and from what they say, at least, the elements of the TEI, the Technical Chamber, we have a very small record of arbitrary things. In other words, the law in this regard has failed, when there are currently estimates that 6% to 10% of the arbitrariness was recorded and that large arbitrages, such as those mentioned, are literally out of place. It's a lot of billions for these people to pay. They'll never give it up. They don't have to give them. So, at the moment, the problem is being dealt with, firstly, by giving a little postponement, because we are not yet ready to present the new law. That is the issue. The second question is to start using, because this convention has now been signed, the famous foundation for the arbitrary, created by the Technical Chamber of Greece, which is very valuable, so that we can record them. In the new law, it is clear that we have a different logic, namely that the violation that has a very serious environmental and spatial impact is paid for other than the money paid for in respect of an infringement, which concerns negligence of the state, as I have said. So it will not all be the same, horizontal, tax-spiriting, but it will be a logic of treating the problem, that is, the money we get to be treated with the problem and not the money that someone will pay to be punished for something that it is probably not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Igoumenides has the floor for his denology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Let me make two comments: firstly, at the moment we are discussing this issue there is a reality, that in the hands of the mayors, thousands of our citizens are accounted for by super-private fines, while the services and employees of the municipalities are obliged by law to their mission, because otherwise they are faced with criminal responsibilities. To understand the extent of the problem, I should like to mention the indicative figure that the vice mayor said last Friday at our meeting for 100 million people in Heraklion, or to mention the municipality of Vianno, not because it is my place but because it is the smallest municipality with the least problem, which shows - if you like - the extent of the problem: in seven and a half thousands of municipalities in the mayor's drawers there are certified fines of 5 million! Is the Ministry planning, in view of the new legislation and during the extension, to address the issue of the already certified fines, facing thousands of citizens still trapped in this political hostage of the previous decades? Secondly, Minister, allow me to focus a little on the question of the way forward and the new regulation. You also know the reality as you referred to your answer. If anyone sees the elements of the Chamber of Deputies together with the elements of Heraklion's arbitrary instrument, if that is in line with those of the whole country - and certainly the arbitrary cities have the same characteristics - the average of the costs of settlement per building is EUR 50 000, we ask on this basis from the territory of 40 to 60 billion, and after February the amount is launched, as fines now, in the inconsistent figure of 357 billion, that is, as about the country's external debt! This, in my opinion, explains, Minister, and the information you mentioned, about 10% or 5% in the country or - in any case - about the costs of settlement. I believe that this is a sick reality, a rotten situation that the previous governments did not want to face, which is why they hid it under the prolongation carpet. It was a political choice to perpetuate this political exploitation of arbitrary and manipulation through this large part of the country's population. Because the data have changed and we are faced with a already kneeled people from 2010 to today, I believe, Minister, that today more than ever a political solution is useful, a left-print policy, socially sound and ecologically sensitive. I consider the removal of the political options which lead to the construction of arbitrary buildings to be a solution to the problem of the political hostage of arbitrary owners, to be speeding up the procedures for extension to town plans, which will finally put an end to the reproduction and perpetuation of the problem of arbitrary people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In this direction I understand the necessity and usefulness of extending after 8 February, so that we can get the time necessary to discuss and reach a solution with the Left seal to address this complex problem. A number of proposals have been recorded in the debates with the bodies in Heraklion, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes, which we have also given to your office. These and, together with the drastic reduction in costs of settlement, include proposals to remove bureaucracy by courageously conferring competences on town plans to local government, as well as proposals for direct legislation to now solve the problem of building in densely populated areas, excluding further illegal construction and the creation of a new generation of arbitrary people. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, the questions remain: First, will the new arbitrary legislation take into account these parameters? And secondly, how does he think, Minister, that the Ministry will deal with the already established fines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u70	In the first part of your trilogy you raised the issue - which, as I have explained, I reserve to investigate - of the existing fines, which, as you know, concern almost clearly the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Interior. It's not part of the setup. It's old legislation. From that point on, we will investigate whether or not such a deferral can be given until normalisation takes place. On this point, I have made a point because it does not exactly fall within my competence. But I will pass it on to the relevant ministers to look at with humanitarian criteria what they can do. However, let me come to the essence of what 'package' means. Settlement essentially had two aims: The first goal was supposed to be recording. We have no record of the arbitrary in Greece, so we have no record of the problem. The second aim was to have money, which would lead to the treatment of the problem. Nor is there a success, because the money went to the green fund, which today of all these fines as a fund has a fortune that - if I recall correctly - exceeds 2,5 billion reserves. Only 2.5% are available for environmental or spatial interventions, the rest, as you know, have committed them to guaranteeing public debt with the first Memorandums. So, basically, he didn't go where the legislator had predicted. This is the first thing that has to be cured. It makes no sense to collect money from the citizens and not to build them what they deserve, that is, a city or parts of a town. From that point on, it is clear that in 'absolute cities', that is to say, in cities that have no plan, it has no meaning or meaning to pay another fine. What makes sense is what you said, speedy orbiting and making a contribution to land and to money. Paying land and money will be favoured by the casting on those who will suffer expropriation - as is done everywhere, where it is carried out - to become schools, parks, public services, etc. - It's obvious that there's the n. 4178 does not separate that. On the contrary, arbitrariness as I told you individually in town plans, there the arbitrary man either has to pay something small, if it is a landlord violation inside the building, and something much larger, if it is something that affects his neighbor, a balcony that goes off the line, which is annoying road traffic. So right now what we have to do is separate the result of illegality and see the cost of this illegality in the operation of the city. If we separate that, I am sure that people who are called to pay super-priced fines may also find themselves extremely privileged. So in that sense I think we're going in a good direction. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The last thing, however, is the most important one: the new law will provide for prevention. Prevention means - and I tell the citizens right now - that we now have all the tools, including satellites, to catch the illegality all we want. There will be no new generation of arbitrary men. It is certain that anyone who builds today arbitrary simply builds something that will pay for it very expensive because it builds it today. There's no excuse. It was the 1960s and 1970s that the other wanted to put a tiles above his head, that sensitivity of old arbitrariness and flaws passed. Nowadays, illegality can be run over. We have the tools and with the identity of a building that has already been established, it has simply not been implemented, we will see that anyone who is illegal and who is covered by an engineer will have serious consequences even with deprivation of permission. So there will be no new generation of arbitrariness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr. Tsironi. Let us hope that what you say will be respected. Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth question under number 452/26-1-2016 is the first-round question of the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and Members of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the problems of special education structures in Larissa. The fifth, under number 444/25-1-2016, a top-circuit question of the Athens Parliamentary II, Mr.Theocharis Theocharis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the "promoted changes" to the Administration of the General Secretariat for Public Revenue of the Ministry of Finance, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. We have a letter from Mr Tryphoon Alexiades, with which he knows that, due to a planned meeting with the institutions on the negotiating issues, he will not be able to attend the plenary session to discuss this timely question. The first question under number 451/26-1-2016 of the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vassiliou Yoyakas, concerning the parametering of the prices for the sale of electricity by the professional farmers owners of photovoltaic stations, is not discussed due to an impediment by the honourable Member. The second question, under number 449/25-1-2016, of the second question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Cassiri, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning the "Greek Government's position on the question" by Turkey of our country's dominance on the rocky islands of Imia, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, due to the unsuccessful obligations. The fourth, with number 378/12-1-2016, is a topical question by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Health, on the operation of the Computer Tomographer (PET - CT) at the University General Hospital of Ioannina, is not discussed due to a blockade by MP. The fifth question under number 402/18-1-2016 is a topical question of the second Athens Parliamentary, New Democracy, Anna Karamanlis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the investigation of the causes of death of four-year-olds in a hospital in Heraklion. The sixth question will be discussed under number 403/18-1-2016 of the new Republic MP Evros, Anastasios Prussias Prussias, with regard to the treatment of the operating problems of the Dumotio Hospital. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paul Paulakis. Mr. Treasury has the floor for two minutes to develop his question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, last June I tabled a question to ensure the minimum functioning of the Dumos Hospital. Unfortunately, he is under abandonment, he is the recipient of incomplete funding and is being dismantled. The hospital executives and local communities, as expressed by our Metropolitan and the Mayors of the Twin wall, Orestiad and Soufli, have made friendly efforts to ensure unfortunately consumable materials. This effort includes the Archdiocese of Athens with its various programmes. The main shortage is in medical, nursing, technical and other administrative staff. I am aware, Minister, that you will speak of the recent recruitment announcements on the position of a microbiologist, which has been announced since 2011 and three assistants. There has long been increased demand for medical services, due to the adjacent detention centre for foreigners, as well as the major formations of the Armed Forces, in addition to the inhabitants of northern Evros. There is a significant lack of money. By a recent decision of the 4th Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there are more cuts from the original hospital budget of EUR 1,000,000 for the Two-Double Hospital and EUR 500,000 for the Alexandroupolis Hospital. The main problem is the administrative subdivision of the Dumos Hospital at Alexandroupolis Hospital, which also faces problems. After all, you have left both hospitals headless, even though the governors had been judged by your own committees positive, i.e. you disembarked them before you even secured the young. So in view of the above, I ask you the following questions: Are you going to proceed directly to the essential job coverage in general at the Dumos Hospital? To facilitate and strengthen the financing of the hospital, what do you intend to do? Are you considering the possible return of administrative and financial self-sufficiency or even of a partial own resources budget? In a negative case, could a regulatory law be passed as a safety net, so that smaller regional hospitals are supported by the larger ones, to which they are subject and not have a flow of resources in general from the smaller ones in the larger ones? We look forward to the solutions you propose and prefer, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Prussakis. Mr Polakis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u74	Thank you for the question, Mr Prussias. Let me give you a concrete answer: First, from earlier notices, which exist from 2013 and 2014, while there were approved appropriations, there were five positions of doctors for whom there was no 'near', to say so. There were appropriations - my predecessor here - some were appointed. We found four hundred forty posts that had been decided on, for which the dossiers had been completed, were in the Ministry of Health, there were the appropriations and were not assigned, with approved PHS. From these posts so far we have published in FEK, along with all the others we have done, a hundred thirty and are on the way to issue FEKs for other two hundred. We are very accelerated, especially in the last 15 days, because before we had put the burden on the assistants, since the subsidiary procedure is faster, while the 'grass monster' we inherited for the permanent appointment has one thing that I can only tell you - you will know that, of course - you are going crazy. Of these people have completed with FEK two doctors to you and the other three expect to come out. From there on, in the context of what we have done this time, a pediatrician, a surgeon and a cardiologist were appointed as adjuncts, who took over. They were appointed, but they did not take over - they refused the appointment - an X-rayer and a biopathologist. Since the opening of the nineteen sixteen people who came out in October for the Dumot Hospital there are three places in particular. The interim results of the hundred of the nine hundred have come to an end, have come out. These days come out and the rest of the seven hundred, as the AAP informs us. There is an ID of Nursing, an IT TE and a traumatist as an Auxiliary Health Personnel. In the declaration that will be made in February, which we are doing in February, in order to be able to appoint from the tables that have emerged from the previous notice - that of the nineteen nineteen that came out in October - the nursing staff will be weighed on the basis of the proposals made by the health care region and also the administrations of the hospitals old. I can't tell you an exact number, but for the nursing staff it'll be between five and ten. It will be based on the distribution made to all hospitals in the 4th RCD where it belongs. Also, there is provision for four permanent doctors for the Dumot Hospital, who are a pathologist, a surgeon, a orthopedic and a nephew. That is the prediction, what we have done and what we are planning to do for the staff. From there on, it's not the money as you say it. In 2015, the aid from the state budget with the grant that we - with the extra grant, the EUR 150 million - reached the Alexandroupolis - Twin wall hospital - which we have a single organisation - reached EUR 24 million, EUR 24 000,209. It was scheduled at the beginning for 22 million euros. The first budget of 2016 will change, because now we will pass through sieve all the budgets, because it becomes the "male boil" with this story across Greece. Whoever had a tooth put up a budget, whoever didn't have a tooth, was eaten by the marble. That's what happened. If you want to see the definition of client relationships and powerful barons of the past, both in your party and in the party that has been ruling for many years than you, you see how it is reflected in hospital budgets. This year, then, the first budget for the two Hospitals together is EUR 28,683,000 from EUR 24,000,000 to EUR 24,000 last year with the increase we have given. At the moment, I am not in a position to reply to you about the possibility of splitting up, re-establishing separate agencies. There will be this thing, but there will be a more comprehensive design. With the establishment of the new administrations and after a very open discussion with local communities across Greece and with the administrations of the Ministrys, there will be planning, if necessary for operational reasons, which one of the hospitals that our predecessors have joined together to become economies of scale - which, of course, have not happened so well - will be able to reconnect.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u75	You should say that in your dentistry, though?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u76	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u78	As you have told us, we also feel obliged.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u79	Maybe. But we will do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u80	I wish you could implement them, because we have heard about this through your predecessor's mouth, who is in the Region of the Twin wall. Unfortunately, however, they have not been implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u81	I said what I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u82	I would like to say that we are here not only to denounce, but also to give ideas, which really serve the proper operation of the Dumos Hospital. In fact, there is a joint ministerial decision - I am sure you know it - of the Ministers for Health and National Defence, concerning the cooperation of the Armed Forces through the National Health System at the level of human resources. I would remind you that the Dumoe Hospital is double, because in the same courtyard is the old Dumoe Hospital building, which was donated to 219 KITN military Dumoe Hospital. So we have condolences. I think, therefore, that this joint ministerial decision by the competent ministers should be put into effect throughout this area. I would also like to say and emphasise that there are, in addition to military doctors and military nurses working in the nearby hospital, and bankers serving their service and having specialty or who have not reported that they have finished medical or other close medical professions. I therefore think that universities should, for example, inform the relevant military authorities that they have graduated from the universities. For these people, instead of guarding their viewpoint, can provide the local community with services. I think it is a source of pumping worthy executives who can play an alternative role. On the other hand, I would like to inform you that our last proposal is about the operation of our hospitals, about attracting patients from the Balkans and attracting customers from the wider region of the neighbouring countries. Because we have the possibility of serving them and, above all, the Hospital of Alexandroupolis has a great potential. The county works along with the university. I think, Minister, that what I am proposing is very important and we can ensure the long-term and economic well-being of the two major units that provide services, the Dubot Hospital in northern Evros and the Alexandroupolis Hospital in eastern Macedonia and Thrace, and many times it reaches Thessaloniki. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] These are in general terms. We expect that through this process we can ensure the longevity and well-being of our two hospitals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u83	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, too. First of all, with your last proposal, I will agree and it is a debate that we have begun to do at the Ministry, in relation to cooperation and the attraction of patients from neighbouring countries, as well as in the context of the development of medical tourism from the countries of the European Union or other countries. There, of course, is not just the issue of tourism, but of covering and of some needs that are not covered elsewhere. From there on, with regard to the issue you raised for the military, in the bill submitted by the Ministry of National Defence, there is a provision that solves the problem in many rural hospitals, health centres and hospitals of fertile, problematic and remote areas. We practically establish the possibility for armed doctors to be able to make their farm or serve in hospitals paid by the Ministry of Health. That is what we believe will solve the problem and, in particular, in some remote and island regions that have rural hospitals, for which no one has declared a preference for appointment and due to the reduction in the remuneration that has occurred in previous years. There has been this provision, which actually allowed some who were armed doctors to do their own rural ones at the same time. Now they're going to make it paid by the Ministry of Health codes. There is provision, therefore, in this bill to extend and be able to be made in remote hospitals or health centres, so that these people can join there, strengthening health structures. I think I didn't just tell you what we're going to do, but what we've done so far. I think that's how we're going to keep going. It is clear that there is an increase in the appropriations available this year for the first time after a number of years. As to what you were saying to reduce some codes, it is an internal movement that has been made, because there has been an indisposed remnant from your hospital in relation to medical expenses. Accordingly, this expenditure was also to be supported by the Dumos Hospital. We have given a mandate, because from the spending limit on hospital medicaments last year, which was about EUR 510 million, the EUR 430-440 million was used. The remaining EUR 60-70 million as a cost limit was not used because they had hospitals that did not need it. Now, in view of the application of the clawback hospital, we are making a redesign for all hospitals, in order to support what they really consume expensive medicines and have greater needs for purchases from other hospitals, which, because they do not have these clinics that consume such drugs, do not have that need.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the question of Mr Adonidos Georgiadis, I would like to announce that the sixth under number 427/19-1-2016 topical question of the second cycle of MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Ioannis Delis, to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the relaunch for this year's additional teaching support and the strengthening of teaching in the schools of the country, is not being discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The seventeenth under number 410/18-1-2016 topical question by the Member of Parliament for the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the reduction of the compensation prices for photovoltaic parks, and the eighteenth question under number 409/18-1-2016, a top question from Mr. Kokkalis again to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the need to maintain PPC's sub-category in Tyrnavos, Larissa, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of my colleague, Mr. Kokkalis. Finally, the first with number 745/38/2-11-2015 question and application for the filing of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy, Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the stay of Mr Kim Glen, as Prime Minister, for the third time, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister, due to a workload. We are now entering the debate of the seventh under number 386/12-1-2016 topical question of the second Athens MP, Mr Spyridon - Adonidos Georgiadis, on the application of the 'auto-return' measures and'rebate' measures to private providers of the EEA for the year 2014. Mr Georgiadis will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paul Paulakis. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. You will allow me to tell you that I am not very optimistic that the Minister will find the time to answer Mr Kim's question, because they will have to tell us a lot about that period. So it makes sense to have a workload, Minister. It's not about you, it's about another minister. I was here, and I can't help but comment on two things. First of all, regarding the recruitment of permanent doctors. On my own official, this procedure has been unfolding, which has been pending since 2011. After my negotiations with the troika, the six hundred intakes that had been left were approved, and the appropriations you found ready were ours, which had been spent with our own efforts. The reason why you have not yet made the recruitments is that you lost the first ten months of 2015 in so-called "heroic negotiation". When you received news that you had lost your credit, the year passed. That's the reality. Mr President, I cannot comment on what the Minister said. You said, Minister, that the history of the baron of the parties that were ruling could have been seen by the future's historian in the budgets, depending on how they went up and coming down. Does the name Melina Paraskaki say anything to you? She's the four-year-old girl who lost his life in Heraklion. The disciplinary procedure is still not over, Minister. Would the historian of the future look at your own barons in such incidents, Minister? Come on, turn the tons down now! Lower. Now you're ruling and judging. You are judged, in fact, very strict because your so-called 'ethical advantage' and everything that you have told us as opposition and as trade union have gone for a walk. Let us not remember more about various “superior” tweets and the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u87	But get to the topical question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u88	So I come to the debate on the subject, to have a civilised debate, without style and without arrogance, because it does not take you. What's the story, Mr. President? When we reformed primary health care, it was necessary to close public units for a period when the merger took place, to create the RDP. At that time, a large amount of work was made by private diagnostic centres. And then all the providers of private diagnostic centres came to the Ministry of Health - assisted at that time by many SYRIZA Members at that time - asking for a solution. What was the problem? That, given the fact that public structures had been closed in the context of the reform, there was a very high burden of work in private diagnostic centres. We have therefore agreed - and it was publicly announced by me, as Minister of Health, Mr President - that we would have the full support of Parliament's wings - that we would have commissioned the EEAH to calculate what was this really increased burden of this period of reform due to the State, so that the EOPH budget could be strengthened in these private diagnostic centres, in total, so as to reduce the clawback we had established. This was calculated by EEAY in the year 2014 at 24 million and, by decision of the Minister of Health Mace Voridis at the end of 2014 and by decision of EEAY, the EOPY budget was modified and entered this amount of 24 million, with the approval of the State General Accounting Office, in the budget and in the code of private diagnostic centres. In the first half of 2015 clawback, this amount of 24 million was calculated, which was never given. And in the second semester clawback it was not removed. So they didn't get the money in and they were credited to the clawback to them, as if they had, while they didn't get it. So my question is very specific: What do you intend to do with these 24 million, which were approved in the EEA budget and which were a political commitment to the then leadership of the Ministry of Health, but with cross-party support at that time, to strengthen those who provided services to our patients, when the state could not provide them, because of the reform, and who have now been found in the wrong calculation of clawback? Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u89	It is self-evident, Minister, that you will have two more minutes if you need them. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Listen, Mr. Georgiadis. The moral advantage, which SYRIZA has, does not go into any comparison with what they did and you did as well as the other party that ruled the country thirty years and brought us here that brought us. Because you are a master at the personal peaks and by using the SME projection you have appeared on a impact engine, which is trying to dismantle the moral advantage, I say it very straightforward: With me it doesn't take you! First, the preliminary examination is completed, it's very detailed. It's SAD, it's already happening today, you should know that. Never, for any incident of a corresponding type, the preliminary and the SAD had not been completed in the period since. May I show you in my office how many of the ESAs are there from the past, which they never progressed anywhere? She's my cousin, the girl, the anesthesiologist. If you think I'm ashamed to say it, I'm not ashamed. My cousin is the anesthesiologist. And, if it's his fault, he's gonna pay for it, and he's got the party to take care of it. So don't tell me "low" because for me the heavens were, they're and they'll always be high. Your skies are down because you owe them. That's one prisoner. And if you challenge me further, to have civilised dialogue, I have to say. Secondly, it is clear that on 15 December you made a decision on the 24 million aid to the EEA budget. What are you hiding from what you're saying? You hide the fact that you have not issued - as you could - your successor to the Ministry of Health - the ministerial decision. Because you know very well - because you are the Memorandum of Memorandum - that EEA expenditure has a ceiling of expenditure on private providers. So, from 15 December and until that time when you handed over the government - until then, you could do that - a ministerial decision to allocate this amount and say that it will go there and there, or only there, concerns private providers. You didn't do that. Here all you have done is to deposit this money on the EOPY account from the Ministry of Health's budget and, of course, to health providers in general. It's not about diagnostics. From there on, it is obvious that within the whole misery, which we experienced in the previous period, all the pressure from lenders, all the takeover of governance, etc., this thing stayed behind. It's obvious. We have taken it, and your question has helped us to take it, so I say - and we move on to legislation, the bill of parallel programme, which goes into Parliament over the next few days - because we now need legislation on this issue - that, beyond the limits and credits approved, this money will be deposited there and there. And that's what's gonna happen. So I think you have contributed to finding out this particular issue, because there has not been any particular discomfort from the Services and towards the head of the Ministry, that, you know, there is this amount as well and must be given, etc., but it will be corrected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Georgiadis, you have three minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u92	First of all, I welcome the reply of the Minister. With the good of this legislation coming, and I will come here to speak and support it, because it is right. You know, Minister, if the procedure was not completed by our own omission, it does not mean that the next government should not conclude. I'm not saying we were infallible. It's a long way from here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u93	He's got to find out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u94	But I am pleased that you will take a positive step. It is enough to me that you will bring legislation to resolve the problem of people and to be consistent as a state. Now, to close, thank you very much for mentioning me as a force for impacting the moral advantage of the Left. The President of EIAP yesterday, Mrs Pagoni, I imagine you saw her, made some complaints. He said he met the Department of Health Discipline without being on the file who took the opiate medications. These are unprecedented events, Minister! I do not abuse you or say that there has been your intervention. That's not what I'm saying. Other generally written in social media, but that's where everything is written. It was a chance to answer that. But you must admit - because this is a very sensitive issue, because it concerns a little girl and we all respect the mourning of the parents who live in this drama - that we all have to do everything we can to end this an hour ago. Because the rule of law is a very important thing in these tragedies. But since you said so and mentioned social media, I will close with you, for your moral advantage and for your own personal benefit. You had written a mandarin, Minister, just before your hero referendum. You weren't a minister. "No" wants Greeks, "yes" wants traitors. Time to distinguish wild boars from chickens.’; And then you received the Minister of Health's chair. Then it was not health, it was internal, if I remember well, and you said - with the sympathy - a yes, Mr Polakis! So when you have made such statements and then, to become Minister, you say "yes" so, keep low tone, that's okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u95	Within time. You have three minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u96	To close with the substance of the question, I would like to say that we clearly recognise that your question has come to our attention, because a mechanism underneath has not been disturbed and, in particular, that this has to be done. With regard to the other two that you put on and, of course, you are going to overcome the fact that you could have signed it, which you had made such a public commitment - I mean your government - for the other two, so I would like to say: you are a master and a confusing master! Except I'm telling you, it doesn't take you away from me. Because there's another word about the tragic death of the little girl, who really is going crazy. This is a debate and research is under way. And I replied very specifically that it never happened before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u97	I'm welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u98	Secondly, they were not our administrations, Mr. Georgiadis, the ones that did the Disciplinary for the theft that had taken place in Venizelos. They weren't our administrations. They neither did the investigation nor sent what they had to send up. And I don't get involved. You can't believe it because you'd do any more, but I'm not involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u99	I believe it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u100	Okay, we know each other. There's been a trade union for years. You don't say it, but you imply it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u101	No, I don't mean it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u102	I don't look like these people, Mr. Georgiades, if you've learned to behave like this. Let's find one of Heraklion's town and all the administration, which says I got up, and I called to say anything. Let's find one! And fly it in this stubborn way, just in your effort to unleash the moral advantage. But do you know what, Mr. Georgiadis? I have no problem admiting that we made a compromise in July. It is obvious that we have made a compromise and it is clear that I have a great deal of participation in the 73% that voted 'no' in Chania. It's obvious. But I made a choice not to become Minister, Mr. Georgiadis. And you know what? Let me tell you a few things. I had a job before and made a lot of money and worked in the morning and sun in the sun, and I don't expect to be raised by the minister. I've been raised by what I've done in my life. I do not expect to emerge from this, nor do I expect other benefits from it, as they expected and received too many of our predecessors in this chair, and mine and Andreas. For this reason, therefore, the compromise we have made at the moment...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u103	What predecessors?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u104	Listen, listen. You know very well. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The compromise we made...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u105	Because the question is gone now, we're closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u106	Yeah, okay, but because he dealt with the question ten seconds and three minutes by personal attack. He'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u107	I'm sorry, Mr. President, this is serious. And you were a predecessor, and I was a predecessor!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u108	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u109	Minister, please close, because in his dentistry, Mr. Georgiadis didn't exhaust the time, but he saved. In your prototype I gave you five minutes for equal treatment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u110	I have to answer for a personal answer now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u111	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u112	Finish it, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u113	In his denture he dealt ten seconds with the question and two minutes with personal assault on me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u114	Okay, now, in your dentistry, so did you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u115	Well, listen, Mr. Georgiadis, in the end they shave the groom. This government, whatever you do, will last. Fighting is not the insurance nor the agricultural. Because there, with what we're going to do, we're gonna convince them that's how it's going to be. The battle is what you dared to say, that the new law on television licences cannot be applied. That is where you take the role of the impact. That's where you're taking over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u116	I would like to speak on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u117	Why are you looking over there? Look at this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u118	I address the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u119	It's out of place and time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u120	This unconstitutional declaration, you, who are being cut for legality, from where do you get the courage to do it? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing again and again.]] Those who support you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u121	Finish it. I'll turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u122	They don't have the power you think they have anymore. That is why modestly and humblely, because there are too many EAW surveys under way. Too many!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u123	I am sorry, Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Georgiadis, there is no staff. Just, Minister, I would like, as a Bureau, to ask you, as soon as the EDPS' investigations are finished, to bring them to the committee responsible. All of them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u125	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u126	I have asked from 2000 to 2010. You're going to do me a great favor and bring them all!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u127	You didn't ask us, Mr. Kaklamani.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u128	No, I didn't tell you guys before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u129	For example, the U.S.S. investigations...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u130	I didn't tell you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u131	The EDPS' investigations of the ERIC, of course, will be carried out by many and many others.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u132	That's what I want. Get them all!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u133	And a lot of others.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u134	Instead of threatening to bring them to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u135	But I'm not threatening! I'm proxying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u136	Don't predict, because it's like you know the findings before they're done. We move to the eighth Question No 424/19-1-16 on a topical question from Mr Christou Dimas to the Minister of Health on the problems of the General Hospital of Corinth. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paulakis. Mr. Dimas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would first like to tell you that since August I tabled a written question to the Ministry of Health on the problems facing the General Hospital of Corinth and I have not received any official response. At least on parliamentary control, the Ministry should have been better. Since August, the General Hospital of Corinth has had no intensive care unit. You're a doctor. Imagine the problems that are created throughout the local society when an intensive care unit is not working. There is a great lack of basic skills in medical and nursing staff. I'm telling you we need intensive and pneumonologists and pathologists and nurses. So we are waiting, Minister, for you to take all the measures so that either through CEDEFOP or through the CEDEFOP that the necessary recruitment is made and that the CEDEFOP can be opened. A request has also been submitted to the sixth Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where the Corinth Hospital is subject. Also, Minister, you have said so in response to a question from my colleague earlier on about the Dumos Hospital - eleven appointments are pending at the General Hospital of Corinth and most of them have not been issued. We're waiting for the VHFs. There is no additional charge for the National Health System, because we are talking about movements of doctors already in the National Health System. Specifically, the specialities that are urgent are of the Paediatrics, which we hope you will have something good to say to us, the Cardiology, Surgery and Haematologics. But especially on the issue of pediatrics, Minister, think that Corinth Hospital has been operating for eight months with a pediatrician. You realize what problems it creates not only in patients who need a pediatrician and their parents, but what additional problems it creates in the function of the Mavtic and the Gynecological Clinic. In particular, we need a director at the Paediatric Clinic, so that there is the possibility of "trafficking" and qualified doctors. Finally, it is very important to cover and ancillary doctors, especially orthopaedic, gynaecologist, urologist and an ancillary pediatrician. I would like you to tell us what the Ministry intends to do directly, because for many months now we have been without an intensive care unit and without a pediatrician and all this is very necessary for the General Hospital of Corinth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u138	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u139	Mr Dimas, again from old positions, there are five in progress to you and, indeed, the one you are most interested in - because they came and found us from the Corinth Hospital - who is the director of the Paediatric Clinic. It was signed yesterday, and we are in full agreement, so that the publication can be made as quickly as possible in the FEK, because it was also in the files that had been forgotten for many years. Together there is a curator from the second cardiologist, a curator from the second surgeon, a curator from the second haematologist and biopathologist, whom we are pushing, in order to be published in the FEK. I know that surely the director of the Paediatric Clinic will be coming. For the others, we're not absolutely sure why the crises have taken place before. From there on, the previous time, we appointed an adjunctive doctor at the ICU, a nephrologist. They went. A pediatric adjunct was also appointed, which did not accept. Also, in the notice of nineteen seats that came out in October, you have received - there are - two nursing posts, three nursing assistants' seats and one IC position of Artificial Electrologers. It's in the October notice. The results are now coming out and they will be appointed in a very short time, because we have said that we will appoint the provisional tables there. In the thousand seven hundred to come out of February, there is a proposal from the U.S., in consultation with the hospital, for five places of nursing at the Corinth Hospital, new places of nursing. Now, since the CEDEFOP proclamation, which exists in the Ministerial Council Act - Mr Tsakalotos signed it - for the proclamation of four hundred nurses and one hundred doctors, the following distribution has so far been made: In consultation with the Hellenic Society of Intensive Therapy and with the administrations of hospitals, you are provided for two doctors and five nurses, in order to be able to operate the four of the seven beds you have in the hospital, together with the other doctor from the ITH, who went. Also, in the six hundred places of doctors, who will also be proclaimed in February, you have five places. Programming is for a psychiatrist, a permanent pediatrician, a pathologist, a cytologist and a pathologist. Because, as far as I know, you're also covered by someone who comes from the saint for pathological cases. I forgot to say that in this last notice, apart from nursing, there are five posts that have been announced, the crisis is over and it is for publication. These are: The Radiologers - Radiologists, Medical Labs, PT Biology, PT Operators - Observers and PT Pharmaceuticals. That's what's happened. From there on, the financing of the hospital, and in your own as in all other cases this year, has the increase, on the basis of the decisions made by the OSCE centralised, and I think that slowly, returning the country and the Ministry of Health to normality, we will be able to heal the wounds opened by the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Dimas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Minister. Of course, it is not just important that the notices go ahead. The basic and demand of all society and the hospital is that they come to serve doctors in the hospital. So you need to see what happens in cases where doctors, who succeed in appointments, refuse their appointment. This is an issue that especially in the province's hospitals is very important. I repeat, Minister, that the General Hospital of Corinth does not cover only the needs of a hundred and fifty thousand people resident in Corinthia. The General Hospital of Corinth is located in a road node, where the state of the road network is tragic. Unfortunately, there are too many dangerous accidents. It covers people who go to the Peloponnese, Epirus, Central Greece, Ionian Sea, as well as many ports with the port of Piraeus, Patras and Igoumenitsa. In summer, the population in the Corinthian prefecture is more than tripled. So it would be advisable to place a little more emphasis on Corinth Hospital, which in recent years has been completely abandoned. I repeat we don't have an intensive treatment unit. It is empirically unacceptable for a hospital that serves so much of the Greek population, which should at least serve the needs of such a large part of the population. From there, I can tell you that we in Corinth, as in the Dumotich, have a detention centre. The hospital serves economic migrants, because in the detention center they are only people from Morocco, and they are given priority, as opposed to the insured Greek. At the same time, I would like to tell you that there are very important problems in Corinth Hospital regarding the logistics infrastructure. I mean, we have a lot of trouble with the elevator. You realize - you are, you know it better than me - that you cannot have patients, food, traumatists and visitors to use the same lift. Health problems arise. He wants common sense. The sheets, Minister, - I'm ashamed to say it - the hotel equipment we got him to a large extent from hotels in the region, which they didn't need. And you're telling me that you want to open now a Psychiatric Clinic at Corinth Hospital, which is welcome. But I want him to think about what impact psychiatric will be on Corinth General Hospital. Sixteen recruits have been recruited in Psychiatric for years, which in the General Hospital, Minister, serve thirteen of the sixteen. Of these thirteenths, if the Psychiatry opens, despite the fact that you said another psychiatrist would be hired, you'll be creating a huge problem in pathology and surgery. So, if it is to open up psychiatry, which we want - we look forward to having psychiatry - it is necessary to make extra recruitments from the ones you mentioned. Of course, as the country's situation has been driven, psychiatry may be the most important of other clinics in the country and we will all need psychiatric support. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirty seconds, Mr President. As you mentioned, Minister, the budget for hospitals has increased, I would remind you that the expenditure provided for in the 2016 budget for salaries is reduced by EUR 55 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u142	Don't touch the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u143	And since we're talking about Corinthia, I'm going to tell you that at Guras Health Center, an altitude mountain area that has to have a health centre of its own, you lower the budget, so that the doctors can't fill in the required number of newspapers each doctor needs to make every month. The amount you deprived of the Gura Health Center and thus created...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Dimas, close up. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u145	One second, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u146	I've given you two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u147	The amount is EUR 2,500. For 2,500 euros you have created a huge problem in Guras Health Center. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u148	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u149	There must be a problem in understanding some economic sizes from some colleagues. I'll start with the last one. Last year's budget for on-call and overtime throughout the country was EUR 297 million. This year's 337,5. That's the reality. Now that you see the reduction, I can't understand it. Internal reallocations, etc., which is a matter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, are something that needs to be regulated under the responsibility of each State's Deputy, based on where there are needs and which do not exist. There is also the possibility, in the draft law on grazing land, that where there are more needs than the approved central budget for on-call credits, we should also use money collected by hospitals or health centres and by the EEAS in order to supplement these needs. Where a problem arises this year, it will simply be a matter of management failure. Managing failure is to tell me that you took sheets from the hotels when I see here that the unsettled cash balance at Corinth Hospital this year in December was EUR 1,704.859. Many problems have been created in many hospitals, and this has to do with how those in command were running. It's about other things. With all that stranded cloak that exists in relation to supplies. But from September to December we gave the hospitals operational expenses - we won't give them, we gave them - 875 million. They're in their accounts. Some people didn't work properly, they couldn't complete it. There are so many phenomena. As there are other hospitals that depleted them, they did what they had to do with the above. But a very large portion of hospitals didn't exhaust them, because otherwise it won't be explained. I'll repeat something I said. How can it be overcovered by the outsourcing fund? It was 290 and they cut 318 million warrants. And they paid for it. How did they get there and paid for it? And they couldn't do the drugs? From 430 cut 208. For consumables health material again cut much less than they bought. And they had the hospitals on December 31, 2015, a cash balance of EUR 350 million. It is therefore clear that this is a question of management failure. As a management failure was the issue of cancer patients' drugs - which was solved, but you see that they don't show it - the antiretrovirals, etc. He was in the transition phase. I think I know very well what's going on in Corinth, what's going on with the highway it has next. That is why we are going to strengthen. And if there are any further possibilities, on the basis of the SNE commander's suggestion of the need for more staff, we will try to cover it. Because there is also the notice of five hundred seventy-fifths of other ancillary staff. It has also come out for this, too, an act of a cabinet of cabinets. The exact distribution will be completed in a few days. I don't have the exact information to tell what's in your hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u150	The ninth question will be discussed under number 434/22-1-2016 in the second cycle of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Cremastinos to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the functioning of the Cardiological Clinic of the Rhodes Hospital. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, I have to tell you that this is the first question I have asked, if I am not mistaken - since I have been a Minister of Health - for health in Parliament. I am saying this to show how much I know - and I am responsiblely aware of - health problems and indeed these difficult days that the country is going through. I won't say numbers, because when you say numbers, they tell you other numbers and people don't understand. I shall say, however, that the head of the hospital, the chairman of the Scientific Committee, told me that he resorted to the prosecutor of Rhodes on the grounds that they were in danger of human lives, because too many doctors and nurses have left, and that is why it cannot work. That was the official reasoning. I have a lot here on this issue, i.e. numbers, but the figures do not solve the problem. But what is important is that Rhodes and Dodecanese are the most remote region in the country. When there's a southerly can't reach Rhodes or a plane or a boat. You understand what exclusion means. And I will not talk about Kastelorizo, which is seven hours away by boat from Rhodes and is next to Turkey. So people, when they have health problems there, are resorting to Turkey and it is very reasonable. How is it going to be different? How will the problems of their lives be faced? So that's the question I'm asking. And why did I choose the Cardiological Clinic? No, of course not because of specialty. I chose her because last year she was working with a H.I.D., doing vasodilators. And now the head of the Hepatic Department says that "I can no longer because I have left myself alone with another doctor who resigned this month" - his resignation I have here - "and I asked him to take a month off, so that he could as an undeserved person go and face the infarctions." This picture is tragic. It can't be any more tragic. My proposal to the Ministry is, if it has any money for health, to tackle the problems spatially. It cannot, that is, the Rhodes Hospital, which once said was the sunlight of the Aegean, today - I have the image here - that the letters have fallen from the outside, which says Rhodes Hospital and have no possibility of economic, administrative, I don't know, all together. Last year this happened. Don't tell me the letters were down every year and from one. These, to fall, took six months, ten months. The picture's here. The hospital is being dismantled right now. [[At this point, F Vice-President Dimitrios Kremastinos presents for the minutes the above photo, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] And the questions which arise, Mr President, are: Firstly, what the Ministry intends to do to put it first. Secondly, what he intends to do to tackle the acute problems now of the numbers. And the third and most important one is not to expose the country. Because you realize what happens when a last name comes to Rhodes and a heart attack occurs and they take him to the other country, because of course they cannot take him anywhere else. In other words, it is a huge problem. Not only locally, but it also exposes the country itself. That is why I chose to ask this question today, seeing it from a completely different point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u152	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. colleague, I have 1-12-2015 paper in my hands, signed by the former Deputy Commander of the Hospital of Rhodes, Evgenios Cornaropoulou, who, at the request of the health district, gave him the necessity to recruit permanent staff at the Hospital of Rhodes, responded with this document asking for twenty-nine doctors and classified them in a series of necessity. Why am I saying this? Why if that is the case, as you say, that they serve three doctors and that, with this composition, there will be life losses, etc., why the former commander in recruitment planning puts the issue of the cardiologist in the tenth priority position that he should be recruited? First theme, puts three on the TLP of pathology or general surgery. Second, he's got two pathologists. Third, he puts a neurologer. Fourthly, he puts a microbiologist. Fifth, he puts a pathologist on. Six, he puts a vasodilator on. Seventh, he puts a neurosurgeon. Eighth, he's got a nephew. Ninth, he puts two anaesthetics and tenths, puts a cardiologist. And that's on 1/12. So, when did the universe collapse? When has the world been shattered, and does the issue of the Cardinal Clinical put it in the tenth priority series? I'm impressed by that. So the gentleman wouldn't know about his job. From there on - and there was another issue there, because there is a question of management adequacy - a pediatrician and a surgeon were appointed on 31/12, and before a pathologist and a TLP assistant doctor had been appointed. A cardiologist was appointed, who was unable to go. The pediatrician and surgeon who had been appointed were appointed on 31/12, because I said that I would nominate until the last day of the ancillary day, which we had approved the appropriations and had also increased the expenditure limit. And when they go to take over, they say 'we don't have any money'. And there was an entire pilgrimage between the Ministry and the Rhodes financial services - which, I do not know, may have been misled, because we changed the administration - in relation to the fact that they can use the provision that speaks of the use of 40% of last year's budget in order to get the assistants. And, of course, they took a pediatrician, but the surgeon couldn't wait and he left. Well, look. First of all, the budget for the Rhodes Hospital - you were not before, I said some things - is increased by the state budget, is increased by the increase we gave by 1,000 000 and something this year. In planning the positions that exist for staff, the one thousand eight hundred who will be proclaimed and for those who are being procured, the nineteen, who came out in October, etc., the hospital will be strengthened by staff. Also, in permanent posts, we will foresee as much as we can. We know the role of the Rhodes Hospital throughout the island complex and the central role it has and the basis of the EKAB, etc., and we will try - to be sure of that, Mr Colleague - to support the hospital. Rhodes is also supported by the programme to address the refugee crisis and by EKAV rescuers and doctors and nurses, who will take on part of the reception of this migratory current and its health needs. Also, from all the notices that exist and are in progress, the Hospital of Rhodes will also be strengthened, as will all other hospitals in Greece. I'm impressed, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u154	Keep them for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u155	Yes, Mr. President. I got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. So from what I understand, you're saying that I never asked the Department of Health, I came here today to be the smart guy without a problem? This morning I was called by former Mayor Kalymnos to tell me that a fellow doctor with a stroke was looking for a unit to transfer her from Kalymnos. I don't know if this news arrived at the Ministry. In any case, they told her - and I was told by the EAW - that she has fifty-three or fifty-two on a waiting list for units. This is what happened in Kalymnos this morning. I wouldn't look at any numbers if I were you. I wouldn't even ask the D.N.A. I'd go to Rhodes tomorrow morning, ask this doctor if it's right that he resorted to the D.A. to tell him to keep him safe because the sick are dying. That's what I would do. I'd be overthrown by the U.S. and kick her out later, if you'd notice of course. If not, I have no intention of coming here and pretending to be the protester. Things are serious and it's so serious that I told you without saying any number, because I know that if I tell you three, you'll tell me four, if I tell you five, you'll tell me six, and by morning we'll talk about numbers. So I'm telling you, things are very serious and not serious. I don't think it's possible that the doctors have misled me. Because I talked to the doctors. You guys go to Rhodes Hospital tomorrow morning and see it. Tomorrow, take the plane. And I'd be happy to be told that I was misled by the doctors. I didn't come here to pretend smart. I wonder how you're telling me. So I have the same anxiety you have, and that is why I have told you that I would advise you - if you would like to experience - that I would put the areas that are most remote to the top priority, to nursing staff, to medical staff, to anything, because that is what the country needs today. It's hard times. It's a bad financial thing. I know them. I'm not telling you to make a resurrection. You can't do it. But to see where we really are, we call for it. I would say, Mr President, if you give me time, that health problems are huge. I, as Minister, had made a law, which you can bring back, where I forbid the advertising of health products, i.e. clinics, doctors, etc. This law has passed to eternity, has been abolished. And I see in the papers that offers are made from groups, from health cards, to millions of people, who believe that this is how their health is served. You, as a fellow doctor, know how health is served by health offers. These are the major health problems, which do not need money, but they need determination. Repeat the right laws, make your own new ones, add them and go ahead, in order to ensure a National Health System effectively, with the money that the country has. Because we cannot do Sweden's national health system, because we do not have the economic potential. But we can do a National Health System that meets the country's current needs, the economic situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u158	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Kremastine, the years when the sausage dogs tied up this system, we didn't make it and some people were to blame. We built buildings, made wardrobes, made things, overvalued materials, overvalued drugs, over-priced reagents, and we had a party for ten to fifteen years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u160	The responsibilities are personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u161	No, the responsibilities are political and they are assigned to those who have implemented them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u162	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u163	Okay. Now you've put it right. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u164	Don't solve a philosophical issue now. Listen. We are doing everything we can, in conditions of deep humanitarian crisis, in a deep economic crisis, where the refugee crisis was added. And this government has shown that, while all this is happening, for the social sector after six years it is increasing spending. The fact that everything can't be fixed in one day, they can't, it's obvious. The fact that there are priorities is obvious. But there are parts, Mr. Cremastine, and you can see them. Because the need for Rhodes to have an ICU to function, to have some specialties to meet the same needs, has a large urban centre and in remote and degraded areas, which is under very high pressure, infinitely larger than some other islands. So you have to share just what you can. And that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u165	Priority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u166	And that is what we are doing in the distribution of the nine hundred and eighty-five and in the distribution of the eighty-eighth and in the distribution of the EAEC, and in all the positions that we are calling for, we are trying to support as much as we can and at the same time the whole system. There are some nodes that are more intense. Apparently, they'll get something more. It's no different. From that point on, I didn't tell you that you came here to lie to me. I am simply telling you that in the official briefing of the hospital administration to the Ministry and of the subsidiary before and for the permanent aftermath, when data were requested, it did not prioritise the issue of cardiologics. One cannot smell his fingernails that this thing is happening. And also because we know that the system works in unstable equilibrium conditions, a disease of someone can tear down this balance that so far existed. So these things will be slowly, slowly as long as the country returns to normality. That's the answer, Mr. Kremastein.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u167	Go see them, Mr. Polakis, tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u168	I'll go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u169	Here is the tenth Question No 404/18-1-2016 by MP Atolokarnania of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the operation of the Agrinio and Mesologios Hospitals. Mr Constantopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u170	Minister, you are asking today about the particular problems facing the Hospital of Agrinio, Mesologio Hospital, as well as the Vonicas, Amphichia, Halkiopoulos, Thirmos, Aetolitan, Nafpaktos and Katounas Health Centers. Health, Minister, is a matter without micro-political confrontation and micro-participatory benefits. Besides, health is a social asset and it is the state's obligation to provide it and to ensure it to everyone. So we have Agrinio Hospital. It was a work of breath for western Greece. Designed with all the modern standards. Its purpose is to serve the Prefecture of Aetolakaranania and the neighbouring prefectures. And yet, today's picture is with a word tragic. The Clinics do not exist. The county is covered by a cardiologist only twenty - four days a month, twelve days in Messolong, twelve days in Agrini. The intensive care unit is subordinated. The state-of-the-art CT scanner is inertial. And you know why? Because there's no doctor. However, there are still empty organic positions of permanent doctors. At the same time, there are no trainees. The hospital's trying to work with the assistants. In particular, there are twelve subsidiary doctors, covering standing and constant needs both in mornings and in on-calls. They are doctors moving every three months from the various Health Centers of the Prefecture, Halkiopoulos, Thermos, Amphichia, Vonitsas, Katounas. And every three months they're making applications so they don't get in the air. Imagine, Minister, there was no subsidiary. Especially the Hospital of Agrinio would have been closed. That is why you need to give immediate solutions, not to open up the road once and for all, because private centers uncover one after the other. That is why you have to give solutions today. Minister, the same grim situation prevails at the Messology Hospital. The Paediatric Clinic and the intensive care unit are closed. The Pathological Clinic only operates with doctors seconded from health centers. The Cardinal Clinic only works ten days a month. The artificial kidney unit only works three days a week. The Psychiatric Clinic operates with a psychiatrist, who runs at the same time as the "Psychure" Program. However, there are no funds available for the purchase of material either. Health centres are in collapse without the necessary staffing for their operation. They don't have the money for oil. You have not yet implemented your commitments for adequate staffing of health units. For all the above, the offer of the social good of health is now being called into question. So I ask you: what is the Ministry's planning for dealing with the problems of Agrinio, Messology and health centres in the county? Is there a specific timetable for the Ministry's activities to serve Agrinio Hospitals and especially Messologists? And if so, what specialties? Thirdly, is the staffing of health centres within your priorities on the basis of the current shortages already recorded? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u171	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. In many of what you have said, I have answered to previous colleagues, because logic is the same. I'll say specific. By assistants we appointed this year in the last three months, a pediatrician was appointed to Messolong and did not go. A cardiologist and a radiologist went to Agrinio. Again, a cardiologist and a radiologist didn't go while they were appointed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u173	You mean subsidiary?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u174	Yes, auxiliaries. I'm saying what we did last quarter. Since the CEDEFOP notice that will be published in the next few days, a doctor and a nurse for the CED in Agrinio are provided for. Also, planning has been done on the basis of data from the U.S.S. hospitals for the two hospitals - in relation to permanent doctors from the six hundred post notice - is for the Agrinio two cardiologists, a M.S., a nephew, a pediatrician and three psychiatrists. A pathologist, a cardiologist, a nephrologist, is foreseen for Mesolong. This is the planning of permanent staff notices. From there on, on the subject of budgetary strengthening, as in all of Greece, you raise a more general issue: when we brought the memoranda, we have paid wages, we have not appointed five years, the doctors are leaving. They didn't see light. We have nine thousand jobs in the country at the moment and the seven thousand are covered. The other two thousand are not, and of course they start from the provincial hospitals and the lack of this centre reaches. We are working with what we are doing and with the appointments of subsidiary and permanent staff, and with this notice with the CEDEFOP and with the other AS' s notice, to give a signal that the course is reversed, because on the one hand we have cut their money, on the other we have not appointed them for years, and now we are saying why they are not. We are called upon to do this, that is, a six-year-old course, to solve it within five months of having a relative tranquility in the country. We gave scripts. We supported the system financially. It is clear that too many operational problems will be solved by the establishment of some administrations, which will also take this thing on their back and beyond what the government can do, and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u176	Minister, on Wednesday there was a pan-Carronic rally in Agrinio for Agrinio and Messology Hospitals, not only in Agrinio but also in Mesoligogi and in other cities of Aitolokarnania. It is the answer to you, to everything you have said before. The Aetolokarnas have risen up to sub-financing and sub-scribing hospitals and the dramatic state of health centers. Citizens are addressed to hospitals and health centres in the county. And these are impossible to provide health care for them. The world is upset. Some few can go to Rio or Athens. Many are excluded from nursing and medical care. This is the public health that the citizens of Aetolokarnania are experiencing. Minister, give the breath of national dignity that you promised as government. You blamed previous governments for a conscious choice of shrinking and public care, that they made the ESS have the image of a bombed landscape. However, it has been a year and we still have to see a comprehensive reconstruction plan for the ERC. Instead, we see complete indifference in the Athletic Prefecture. The solutions you have before you. Separate Agrinio and Mesology Hospitals. Give them autonomy. It's unacceptable that they're alerting. Eighteen days in Agrini and twelve days in Messolong. The subsidiary scheme operates as a disincentive for doctors. They are not permanent doctors, they are doctors for eight months. In December, FEK came out for health centres' organisations, which abolishes organic positions of medical and administrative staff and, instead of taking care, Mr Minister, to cover gaps, you are overcoming them and abolishing the positions. Hospital workers have risen up. They have the full support of the local society. The rally participated organisations, clubs, clubs and local authorities. I am tabling a resolution to you here. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, presents for the minutes this resolution, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I urge you, from this step forward, to give them immediate solutions. Make our hospitals fight and efficiently. Don't mutilate them. Ensure their elementary and dignified function. Immediately publish new hospital agencies. These people don't really respond here. Increase budgets in all health structures in the county. Make the recruitments they need to meet the needs of the area. Announce permanent and subsidiary positions for the gaps that exist. I would say here, because of the crisis, that you give free access to all the uninsured and unemployed in the health services of the county. Create autonomous emergency parts with sufficient staff. Explore the building facilities of the old Agrinio Hospital. Take care of the staff of the EMCDDA. Do not shrink public structures anymore. Don't deceive public care. Citizens are forced to turn to private centers because of the residual function of hospitals. Stop transferring the care costs to them. Minister, listen to us and respond to the fair demands of the citizens of Atolokarna. You are accused that by your indifference to our prefecture you are passively causing the privatization of the health system. I do not want to believe that a left government is promoting health privatisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u177	However, it is good, ladies and gentlemen, when we speak of parliamentary scrutiny, that this should be an audit and not a health proposal. Checking's control. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u178	Now what can I say, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u179	Consider the proposals, which were not negligible, as questions. As far as you can answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u180	I'll answer a number, Mr. Constantopoulos. Okay, I understand the needs you've raised. People do well and fight. Very well they keep fighting and stronger and more live, because we're with them and we're not against them. And it is very good for people to be mobilized to claim their right to health. Who privatized and who pushed the world into private hospitals, search it in your party, search it in the other party that you colluded with and all the provisions that have passed in previous years. Check it out when you closed the IKA and EOPY and on one night two and a half thousand people left, the system's capacity fell to half and turned to the private sector. Look into it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u181	You, Minister, what...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u182	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u183	You rule today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u184	A number I'll tell you, Mr. Constantopoulos. Last year the two hospitals, cumulative, received a grant from the state budget of EUR 8 million. This year they have over 10 million. That is a clear sign that we support. And this is the first time after many years that budget shorts write plus no more. From there on, I understand the needs of the opposition process. I said some things...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u185	Minister, fifty thousand people went out on the streets.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u186	All right, let's not get into dialogue. Let's get to know each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u187	Is that your answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u188	Yeah, that's my answer when you tell me we're cutting money. But we're not cutting. Read budgets to see if we are cutting or if we are not cutting. You have a problem with budgets. You cannot understand that this year for the first year is growing. You can't feel that. It's acquired speed of the past. See the budgets of the hospitals now in existence and which will be modified in the next quarter and the health centres and everyone. The health centres' budgets from 100 million last year are 150 this year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u189	Minister, oil at the Nafpaktos Health Center...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u190	Mr. Constantopoulos, let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u191	Now we'll ask the Minister about the oil. Who ruled there? Who was the commander there? Who's there? Come on, please, now! Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u192	All right, it's the budgets on paper and budgets in practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u193	The hospitals and health centers are running!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u194	And we reach the two colleagues with whom this evening's parliamentary evening will be closed. Next is the eleventh question, number 412/18-01-2016, on the coverage of the blank beds in the intensive care units of the ESS. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will begin with facts, without trying or opposing. The fact is, at the moment, that there are severely suffering fellow humans who are in the enclosures, because there is no intensified bed. That's an old problem, but now it's sharp. At the same time, we have very serious surgical procedures which are not done, Mr President. And they don't happen because there's a shortage of IF beds. I mention OENGE's details of the discussion, the OENGE's assessment is that they need two thousand ICU beds in the country. The country has six hundred forty, of which two are closed. The virus influenza epidemic (H1N1) recently broke out and we had several incidents. Twenty-seven people lost their lives. We had four minor children who had serious complications. We have a baby right now at "Save Sunday". And we have a total of forty-seven patients, Mr President, and Mr Minister, who are in serious danger. The spread of influenza and our fellow citizens with severe complications are linked to the lack of beds in the ICUs. I have heard you before, Minister, in reply to questions from colleagues, say that you have announced them to the doctors' contracts. What's your design? Why this time was late? Who's to blame? I didn't expect you to tell me it was your fault. From what I understand so far, it's not your fault. But I want to know, this time what happened? And above all, Mr Minister, because - from what I understood from the reply of my colleague - in six months' time, with this money you have provided for in the budget, all the problems in hospitals and health centres will be solved.), I call on you, as you increased the money and increased the budgets, to tell us what you forecast for the ICUs in 2016 and what you are planning for the coming years. That is all, Mr President, about my prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u196	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mrs Christophilopoulou. What I want to say to you is that the next time I have been in the four hundred auxiliary doctors appointed and served in hospitals, twenty-five of them were doctors of intensive care units across Greece. Secondly, in the next few days, the CEDEFOP notice comes under a two-year contract to open around a hundred and twenty-thousand and thirty-beds of intensive treatment of public hospitals, which are currently either closed or inoperative. Four hundred are nurses, and one hundred are doctors. There is complete communication with the Hellenic Society of Intensive Treatment, with the administrations of the Ministry of Education, and on the basis of these proposals this staff will be allocated to Greece. I have answered some of my colleagues before in this regard. From there on, precisely because of the intensity of the flu effect with contacts from the new president of the EOPY of Mr Bersini, sixty more IF beds were provided by private clinics, triggering a contract, which had fallen into disuse and had, of course, been modified, leaving a splendid splendid splendid field on various dark paths previously existing by the IKA Convention with private clinics. Sixty beds were activated from there, too. We want to open up in total, Mrs Christophilopoulou, and with permanent staff - and I think this will be the main coverage of the country's needs - three hundred more ICU beds - for I am talking about, not MGU - of what they are today. I think that to a very large extent they will be able to meet our country's acute needs. It is clear that they need to open several more beds of an increased care unit. Why? Right now, if we take a round before Mr. Kremastinos was saying to go to Rhodes - in a series of hospitals, we will see at least a bed in large public hospitals, which is occupied by a sick person who offers no more to him. It could, in other words, be a much lower level of support to welcome it as a rehabilitation centre, with respiratory support, a lower level of hospitalization. Also, too many surgery, even heavy surgery, could be done not covered by a IFB bed but by a MFF bed. Such design has never existed. We will now make this planning, because we have one more knowledge as we have been in the units since 1996. Also, to know that in the six hundred posts that are now being proclaimed, there will be targeted call for positions of doctors as well as nurses. Because the big problem in the units right now is not just doctors. For example, in Attica, with the staff we will send, we will open another six to seven beds of intensive care unit and four more care unit. And we're only sending nursing staff. They serve medical staff can also cover these above beds that exist. This is the first planning, Mrs Christophilopoulou, in order to balance the system. The percentage - two thousand beds or three thousand beds against others - which you were saying includes the total of special units. It's not of intensive therapy beds. It's also the implant modules inside. There's the artificial kidney units in it. It's also the transplant modules in it. It is all these units that there is indeed a study and an adjunct calculation that says it should be 8% to 10% of beds that the public health system has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u198	Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for the information you gave me. I have carefully noted what you said. I have to point out the following and ask further questions. Firstly, it is obvious that recruitment through CEDEFOP - I think the President is aware of it as well as as as a doctor, but because it has been passed by the Ministry of Health - they are recruitment - I would say - 'fighting'. In other words, they come to meet the immediate needs. The other guys did it, you did it, too. I would point out, however, that you left it to the end and then you did it, that time was lost. And because you told us just before that there was peace and tranquility in the country.I want you to know that my question didn't come because I had some opposition. Obviously, Mr Minister, my question came from a disturbance caused by your fellow doctors, nurses and patient associations. So the question came to answer a timely situation it had - and it has been - created. So you say that the notice and recruitment of the CEDEFOP will take place immediately. I wish! We'll watch it. You also told me that you would get permanent staff in the units... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Comrade, I would like the Minister to hear me. Mr President, stop my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Kremastein, I have protests from our colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u201	Forgive me, but if the Minister doesn't listen to me, he won't answer me. It's the form of control that can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u202	I'll let you talk a minute rather than upstairs. Keep going, Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u203	So I was saying, obviously, that your design for permanent staff, for three hundred beds, is nice as a reason. However, I would like to ask - it may not be about you personally, but about your predecessor, Mr Kourublis, in total, the governments which have taken over a year ago - the following: what planning has been done and what positions have been reached even up to a draft Act of Ministerial Council, the General Accounting Office and what has been budgeted? Why, with this you are telling me today - and I am not questioning what you are saying to me - we will go in 2018, Minister. I know very well that I am speaking to you about a topic that is burning all over the country. So I want you to tell me a little more compared to what stage we're at. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me continue for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u204	Carry on, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u205	Because, Minister, I have listened to you before, and I would like to point out the following: you spoke beforehand about management failure. In fact, you referred to the serious lack of chemotherapeutic and antiretroviral medicines. I would like to tell you, Minister, that you have to consult with your colleague, Minister Xanthos. I asked a timely question about the subject, knowing that it is not the managers who have not been there because they have been headless of hospitals for a long time! It's not the governors' fault. He said Mr. Blonde - take the Minutes of the House - that it was because of some arrhythmia. The arrhythmia was simple: While the hospitals had to be warned in December that the system would be changed, because there is the clawback in the hospitals, because in the negotiation you had to and did so, from there on, you had to sort of prepare the situation. We have not prepared the situation with the result that our fellow humans who are cancerous or suffering from HIV or who have a need for high and serious treatment or prevention, cannot have their medicines. So I want to see the whole thing. I want us to leave one - if you want - a mentality 'we did everything well and you are to blame for everything' and to take a serious look at health issues. The opposition is here to judge, judge and say good. That is why, Minister, I would ask you to respond specifically to the figures you have given me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u206	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u207	I'm starting with the last one, Mrs. Christophilopoulou. How is it possible for hospitals to have no problem? The decision on the clawback hospital was taken in November. I'm talking very specifically. In Salvation, why didn't he open a nostril and make thousands of chemos? In "Attica" he did not open no nostril and does thousands of chemo treatments. The Laiko, where we set up the camera outside to get it? Is that where it happened? I'm very specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u208	Don't you tell us about cameras. Not you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u209	Why shouldn't I tell you? I don't understand. Shouldn't I tell you about a camera? For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u210	Because when you were on the other side, you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u211	Wait a minute. It's clear that in...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u212	Let's hear the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u213	The Minister said so. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u214	There was nothing different said. I'm just saying it more openly. It is clear that in some hospitals there was a management failure in the transition to the new regime.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u215	Where's the circular?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u216	There was no question of money.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u217	Wasn't there?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u218	Now listen to me. I didn't interrupt you. Don't fly all the time, though. There was no question of financing the system by increasing both the cost limit and the specific fluid, which was sent to hospitals. There wasn't. There was a matter of clear management failure by some administrations. What can we do now? That was the one I wanted to say. I'm saying the same thing as Mr. Blondie. I'm not saying anything different. That's exactly what I'm saying. From there on, the crisis process with this monster, the rotten monster of the bureaucracy that you inherited us, is very slow. Yeah, it's too late. The crisis process - Mr Kremastinos knows well - the earliest that he has in the current conditions is around seven - eight months and normal is one year, one and a half years, and then "here, Lord, when he will begin". After the file goes, it'll start.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u219	In a few months we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u220	Wait a minute. We are now setting time limits so that permanent notices, permanent posts, can be completed - and we are counting days for this, you will see it in the bill that will start on Thursday, to the limit of three and a half months. That's big, too. And I think we should go into a whole debate about how this system needs to be changed. From there on, precisely because there is this and precisely because there is a strong necessity, we have to - why do we not want it, why is that CSCE the nest of sin from the past, right? - to use the CIFB, of course, closely and very close to it, to cover these hundred twenty, hundred thirty beds of the CIFs, which we need, with two-year contracts, not for two years, to have a depth of time that will work these hundred and twenty, one hundred thirty beds. And we will gradually be able to add permanent staff and open up these posts and the notices we have. Because within the nine hundred and sixteen, which has a very nursing staff, several will go to the ICU and out of a thousand eight hundred will go to the ICU, because we know the acidity that exists. Of course, there's only no acidity in the ICUs. Of course, there will be a redesign - what I said before - which will be the great relief in many hospitals, in the beds of the MATHs, in the care facilities, which can welcome a very wide range of incidents. This will actually lead to the IFs that have a real need. This is the situation, Mrs Christophilopoulou, and that is what we will do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u221	However, I recorded, Minister, that you said three hundred beds in 2016. That's the goal of the Ministry. Didn't you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u222	No, I did not say in 2016, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u223	With what time horizon?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u224	I said that within this year's horizon and next year's...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u225	So, 2016-2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u226	...they need to grow. If we develop another three hundred, the core of our needs will cover it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u227	So, three hundred in two years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u228	That's right. The main body of our needs is to cover it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u229	We enter the twelfth under number 394/13-1-2016 a topical question from the second Member of Parliament II Piraeus Union of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economist to the Minister of Health about the living conditions of the abandoned newborns in the wing of the "Alexandra" Hospital. It's an interesting question. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to ask you something that's interesting. During the last period of time, abandoned pups are growing in the various hospitals throughout the territory. But I would like to focus more on Alexandra Hospital, which I visited personally, where after a thousand torments I have been allowed to enter the pupil ward. The neon wing there is built to accommodate the newborns from one to four days and to accommodate about ten newborns a day. However, this section has reached the point of hosting some thirty - five newborns. The space of the department is about twenty-five squares, five by five. That's not just newborns. They've become infants now. When I say 'infants', I mean from two months to six months and one year. You understand, however, that infants from infants have quite different needs among themselves, as I know as a mother. The point is that the staff, the midwives that serve are two essentials, but many times there is only one. To meet the needs of these thirty-five babies who are hosted, who are at different ages - they are infants and infants - is impossible. I would like to ask you: What do you intend to do with this vast number of abandoned pups throughout the territory, and in particular in the wing of Alexandra Hospital, and what measures will you take to ensure that the staff adequacy in this section is satisfactory and serve? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u231	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u232	Mrs McMillan-Scott, I sincerely thank you for the question, because you are giving me the opportunity to deal with a very sensitive issue, which is an old issue - everyone has said that they did not see it, that it was not there - and which, because of the crisis, has been intensified. But it's not just what you're saying. There is also the great problem of the prolonged hospitality of minors and of the "Pedon" Hospitals. And I think this should be addressed together. I should like to address briefly the issue of Alexandra Hospital in relation to the very immediate measures, but which are ballasts, is not the solution. Alexandra Hospital has taken twenty-two places from the latest notices, including some midwives. I therefore believe that it will be strengthened. The question is to close down, that is to say to find room for these children to be accommodated. And I'm not talking about the neonates, but about the little older babies and the kids. We've been concerned about this early. A meeting was held on 29 October. Of course, it is strange that the then commander of the "Alexandra Hospital" was not attending, while he was invited to the meeting. Representatives came from the Ministry of Labour, from the Ministry of Justice, from the 1st Health Region, from the Municipality of Athens, from the Centre for the Protection of the Child "The Mother", the commander of the "Agia Sophia", the deputy commander of the "Saly of Sunday" and the maternity service "Elena". So there was a word to see how this problem would be solved. Because what you're talking about is the neonates, but also the children, who, on the basis of an appeal, are admitted to the Children's Hospital and remain there. There was a record of the problem with bad statistics, and the opinion of the General Secretariat for Anti-Criminal Policy was also requested and we did an investigation into a possible source of funding, real estate infrastructure etc. and we have come up with a programme for the restoration of infants and children, which will have the following elements: first, there is a commitment - and there is a commitment from the "Saint Wisdom" - that within three days - and I am talking about children - the medical check will be carried out where there are public prosecutors either at the "child" Hospital or where it is on a gradient mission from the doctors of the "child" Hospital. Secondly, there must be a commitment that the social services of the nurseries, the hospitals and the welfare facilities in cooperation and the prosecutor of minors will consider the possibility of returning these children to the family, that is, we cannot go directly to institutionalisation, we must also see the possibilities that exist. Some may be able to join the family again. Otherwise, we should go into a pro-active structure. We have identified a number of structures - and we are in the process with the Ministry of Labour to sign the final Memorandum of Cooperation, to say so - which need to be strengthened with human resources in order to function as hosting places for these children. In particular, these are: The Social Welfare Centre "Mother", the PIKPA Voulas, the Pentelis Disease, the "Athens Andreas" Paedopolis of Agios Varvaras. The last two are for teenagers, they're for older children. We have these issues too. If we are to be able to have a direct staffing to welcome these children, we shall be able to make an amendment to allow a child protection structure to carry out direct recruitments. We are in this consultation with the Ministry of Labour so that we can move on with this because it is a serious social problem. It's a matter of basic culture - let's say - and sensitive to do some things. We ended up doing this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u233	Here, Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Minister, for realizing that this is a big problem. I would just like to say that Alexandra Hospital is basically maternity, is not a hospital, that is, it can host these newborns that their mothers will take and leave within two, three, four days. When I went and faced the situation, I saw children, infants abandoned. It is not right that mothers are happy to see their child, take it, breast-feed it to see abandoned children and especially abandoned children from mothers who don't want them, have been hospitalized, have been abandoned and gone, mothers who are drug addicts. These babies need methadone because they have withdrawal syndrome. There are six, eight months of infants and one sees them in the plastic carts. What's for the neonates, they're trying to get up, they're getting caught - because they're no longer babies that may be lying down all the time, they're moving - and they might fall off those strollers. There is also a park in which there are two, three infants from seven to twelve months old. That is unacceptable, because the midwives that exist are not enough. You understand that the two-three-month baby will drink its milk. The six-month-old baby's gonna want his fruiting, he'll want more food. The clothes are not the same, i.e. they will not only wear a diaper what is one year old, we know that. Babies don't have clothes anymore. They leave mothers who give birth and when they grow up their children and give up their clothes, they take them there. There could be a special department for abandoned infants, like "Elena" and not become this fist, i.e. you can see more in the thermostat, but in the bucket that is for the jaundice - you know - others weeping. Meanwhile, it is with a daylight and more than six, eight months, and one year have not seen the sunlight and live in an environment that is stunning. You can't imagine what's going on! Something has to be done! I've been informed that there are people who want to take them with adoption, but they don't give them from there of course. They have to go to another institution and that's where the adoptions should take place. At the same time, there are infants who are LEADER, that is, they have mental or mobilityal problems and so on. So you understand that two midwifes in this department cannot meet their obligations. I'm sorry, but they can't meet their obligations! At least this must be strengthened and a larger space must be made. The newborn mothers who are happy to take it with them must be separated from the newborns who have been abandoned by their parents either because they do not want them or because they do not have the opportunities to raise them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u235	Before I give you the floor to close, Minister, I would like to say that I did not hear about the institution of the foster families. Unfortunately, it's not the Ministry of Health anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u236	Yes, Mr President, it is not our responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u237	I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u238	Ms. Big Economics, I agree with what you are saying and we will look at facilitating what we can in this area and the installation of the new administration and staff support. The final solution to the problem, which also affects young people, infants and other children, is to make use of some of these social structures, which we will support with staff so that they can go there, because it is not the work of the nursery or the "child" for example, to be the home for these children. That's the solution. We will eventually lift many sins of the past. But what do we do about it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u239	I ask the question to see what we're going to do from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u240	And that is why I thanked you for the question. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u241	Except in the past, especially for the neonates, there was no such thing. In conclusion, having thanked me and the Minister, Mr Igoumenidis, who has given us company and did not feel more solitude, the colleagues who asked the Minister and the Services of the House, the officials, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Economic, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economic and Tourism, National Defence, Education, Research and Religion, Foreign Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Networks, Maritime and Coastal Policy, Rural Development and Food, Statement and Deputy Minister for Interior and Reconstruction, National Defence and Reconstruction, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Research and Religious Affairs of Foreign Affairs, Transport and Social Security Policy, and Social Security Policy. (A'184)’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-01-S1-commons.u242	With the agreement of this House at 21.22 p.m. the sitting is closed for Thursday, February 4, 2016 at 18.00, according to the decision of the Conference of Presidents, due to the strikes - I am referring in particular to Members of the region - on the subject of the work of this House (a) legislative work, on the agenda to be distributed and (b) parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical questions.
