ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the debate on the topical and urgent questions, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Friday 19 February 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 556/16-2-2016 by the Member of Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Gerasimios Balaoura to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the delay in tabling a draft law on the regulation of residence permits and work for illegally staying migrant workers. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism about the "rescue" of investments. 3. Antonio Gregos (PSE). - (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the President-in-Office of the Council on his excellent report. 4. The question by No 551/16-2-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme. 5. The No. 552/16-2-2016 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Athanasios Pafili to the Ministers of National Defence and Foreign Affairs on NATO's involvement in the Aegean Sea. 6. By No. 538/15-2-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the favourable treatment of the Athens Concert Hall. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 555/16-2-2016 by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Vassiliki Katrivanou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction concerning the investigation of incidents of police violence and arbitrary action. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The No. 540/15-2-2016 topical question by MP Arta of New Democracy Mr. Georgios Styriou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the review of student relocations. 3. Under number 537/15-2-2016, a topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, to the Minister of Health, on the need to adapt the legislation governing the status of "trainers" to the transitional schools of adults of the Centre for the Treatment of Degraded Persons (CTE). 4. Athanasios Papadopoulos, Member of the Radical Left, to the Minister of Health, on the implementation and modernisation of the institutional framework necessary to respond more quickly to public services, in order to provide incentives to attract clinical studies in our country. 5. The No 511/9-2-2016 topical question by MP I of the Republic of New Democracy, Elena Rapti to the Minister of Health, concerning the revocation of decisions decommissioning innovative services from the Institute for Health of the Child. 6. Under number 522/9-2-2016, a timely question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance on the fines of the National Broadcasting Council (ESP) in the media (SMEs). 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question under number 472/1-2-2016 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the establishment of the Centre for the Reservation of Refugees in Sindo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 535/15-2-2016 in the first cycle of MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Catherine Iglezi, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, concerning the delay of the Prosecutor of Halkidiki in investigating any criminal acts concerning the company "Greek Gold AEMBX" for the Olympiadian and Black Stones of Kassandra Medals. The question will be answered by the Minister, Mr Paradulopoulos. Here, Mrs. Iglezi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the Sub-projects of Olympiad and Black Petros - facilities Mandem Lakkos - the mining and metallurgical installations Kassandra, located in the Municipality of Aristotle in the Prefecture of Halkidiki, audits have been carried out by the Environmental, Building, Energy and Mining Commission in the years 2012, 2013 and 2014. In January 2015, and while the results of the audits were rusting for three years in the drawers of the Ministers, the inspectors' reports were announced, which resulted in findings in September 2015, where twenty-one violations of environmental legislation were found. As can be seen from the contents of the findings of Environment Inspectors, the activity of the company "Greek Gold AEMBX" has caused pollution and environmental degradation. As of 30 September 2015, the Environmental Inspectorate of Northern Greece has forwarded to the Public Prosecutor of Halkidiki an infringement attestation of the above infringements, as well as a file with all relevant documents. Since then, however, the Halkidiki Prosecutor's Office has not taken the steps required to carry out any criminal offences resulting from the results of the inspections. It is worth noting that on 12 January 2016, the Minister for the Environment and Energy and the Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy approved the recommendations of the Environmental Inspectorate for the imposition of fines totalling EUR 1734,300 for twenty-one infringements of the legislation which were checked and found during the period 2012 to 2014. The local residents are particularly concerned about the effects of pollution and environmental degradation on public health as a result of the activity of that company. Is the Minister therefore asking: Why is the Prosecutor of Halkidiki Halkidiki delaying the examination of the acts of an infringement attestation to investigate whether any criminal offences arise for the company ‘Greek Golden AEMBX’? What does it intend to do about this delay in order to ensure public health and the prevention of potential risks arising from the activity of the Hellenic Chrysos company in the Municipality of Aristotle? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, I have taken note of your question and looked into it. I also addressed to the Prosecutor of the Polygyros of Halkidiki to obtain the necessary information. Also, I asked about the generally applicable data on processing times and handling of similar cases in the Prosecutors. According to what I learned and according to the written answer, which I received from the competent prosecutor, since October 9, 2015, the document of the Environmental Inspectorate of Northern Greece for consideration is in the Prosecutor's Office. It has received the number of cases required - it has been associated with the existing case-file - in order to carry out a preliminary examination. In my opinion, this three-month period - from the time you ask for and follow-up - is not excessive on the basis of the general operating data of the public prosecutors of the country, as well as on the basis of the data in this EPPO. However, your question led me to look at the course of this case from the outset. On the basis of a detailed reply from the Prosecutor's Office, the following emerged: The complaint by the citizens of the Municipality of Aristotle took place on 5-9-2013. On 5-10-2014, there was an order for a preliminary examination to the Environment Inspector of Northern Greece. Then, on 6-2-2015, the file was returned to the Prosecutor at the end of the preliminary examination by the Inspector of the North Aegean Environment and almost immediately, on 20-2-2015, the file was recharged to a public prosecutor for further processing. And we arrive on 9-10-2015, the date from which the space you want to investigate begins, so the document of the Environmental Inspectorate of Northern Greece enters the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office, with which the document of the Environment Inspectorate of Northern Greece is transmitted in infringement proceedings and is correlated with the criminal file. The reading of the dates, as the Public Prosecutor put them in mind, creates questions for me for the period from 5-9 to 5-10-2014, which was ordered for preliminary examination, as well as for the period from 20-2-2015, when the case-file was recharged to a public prosecutor, up to 9-10-2015, in which case it was linked to the letter of the Inspectorate. For this reason, because I cannot find a clear explanation for this delay, I have asked - today I think that the relevant document will be completed - for a preliminary disciplinary examination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u7	Here, Mrs. Iglezi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u8	Minister, I think I will confirm what you have said. This is not the first time that the Prosecutor of Halkidiki has been blocked in matters relating to the activities of "Greek Chrysos". None of the residents' complaints or even the new Municipal Authority has taken the path of justice or even answered by the Prosecutor. And why am I saying that? As you will be aware, in the area of Aristotle Municipality a dynamic movement has been developed against the activities of the "Greek Chrysos". This movement involves the majority of the local residents, who are struggling for the protection of the environment, health and economic activities, for the future of their country, for the future of their children. In two words, they fight for life itself. What you perhaps do not know is that the checks, from which these findings have been produced, have been caused by complaints from residents, who, due to the lack of control by the state, and the indifference and tolerance of the deportation of the City Authority, have been doing the role of the auditor and denounced illegality for many years. And, of course, these complaints were made not only in the Environment Inspectorate, but also in the Halkidiki Prosecutor's office, which you also confirm. As you can see, the concern of the inhabitants - the anguish I would say - is very great when, in fact, measurements are made in the water supply sources of the villages in the region, there are excesses in the concentration limits of heavy metals and, above all, males. In a document, the Directorate for Waters of Central Macedonia expressly states that the quality of water is characterised as ‘bad’ due to concentrations of lead and arsenic due to anthropogenic causes, mining activity. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Catherine Iglezi, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Minister, it is a requirement that society should be given criminal responsibility to those responsible for pollution and environmental degradation in the region. Any delay will bring immediate and irreversible consequences to public health and the quality of life of residents. Already the delay is very long under the responsibility of the previous governments, which not only tolerated but also covered the illegalities of this company, keeping the results of the checks forgotten, which revealed the public risk of its activities in drawers. It is indeed commendable that your act of ordering disciplinary checks on these delays, which endangered the health of the people of the region. The new government, in its honour, had to take specific measures for self-evident, in order to establish the specific infringements and impose the fines it entails, because it also had the responsibility, but also the will to do so in order to protect the public interest, the environment and public health. In favoured states citizens' health and environmental protection are above company interests and profits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I can assure you immediately of your own reference to complaints by residents, which were the starting point for this investigation. That's right. It is also clear from the document sent to me by the Prosecutors that the starting point for the investigations is the result of complaints from residents. At this procedural stage I cannot agree with you that there is a delay. This is a matter for the moment. However, I can assure you that it will be very carefully investigated. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western gallery of the House of seventeen students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Petroupoli General School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Next is the third with number 529/12-2-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the "frequent" treatment of the Athens Concert Hall. The question will be answered by the Minister, Mr Baltas. Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. The issue is well-known. To have time to hear your answers, I'll make a little description. The Congregation of Music was a donation of PASOK, Andreas Papandreou and Mr. Laliotis, to Mr. Lambrakis. There was a share relationship -50% State, 50% of the then private "Friends of Music" - but 100% the guarantee was Greek State. This is an incredible property at a strategic point in Athens. The administrations in the past twenty years, which had no control over them, had complete immunity and were not obliged to issue insurance tax information, such as all legal agencies in Greece - there was a special regime - managed to manage some billions. We will see these in the balance sheets when we find them tomorrow with Mr Alexiadis. At the same time, they managed to charge the Greek people with 326 million, which we are called upon to do - and we are called upon by the act of legislation - to move on to the budget and fulfil the obligations of the bad management of the Greek people. We have, of course, taken back an area of fifty thousand square meters, where we have to see its present value, to see what the indirect revenue is from the public. At the same time, what is very concerned about is management from now on. Questions are clear. You'll answer it, I imagine, as I've recorded it. I do not want to eat time with questions, because they have been recorded and you will answer them. What is worrying is that the management of the Mansion from now on is given to the same people - and I will document what I say - for thirty years, without a euro in return. And I read what the legislative act says: 'After the expiry of this 30-year period, the property is managed and managed by the Ministry of Culture and Sport'. In other words, we haven't had 30 years since we give them any administration and no management of the property. We will see why it says 'the property'. I'll come back to this. Because he speaks of the property and not of the company "Musicos Mercedes", which by decision defines the terms and conditions under which the property is available to serve its purposes. So, in fact, after thirty years, we will have a reason to manage the property, which is now going through our hands. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With regard to the decisions of the Management Board. And I would like for ten seconds, Mr President, to read this article, which says: 'In order to make decisions on matters referred to in Article 6, and in Article 11, on immovable property granted in accordance with Articles 8 and 9 to the Agency by the Association of Friends of Music, as well as in general matters relating to the rights convention of the Association of Friends of Music, the Board of Directors shall be in a quorum if it is represented by at least nine of the advisers'. That means quorum. In other words, we cannot do anything about the property, nor make any decision, unless the six public authorities we and the three old bad managers of the Conservative Music are present. Please, Minister, I would like your reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. There has been a detailed debate over the past few days on this amendment. I tried as far as possible and then during the debate to explain some things. But it seems that some things are still incomprehensible. In the written version of Mr Kammenos's question, he says: 'For thirty years - and I will come back - it is granted free of charge to the House, while over thirty years and only then it comes to the administration and management of the public.' That's not true. Let me explain. The Athens Concert Hall, which has passed the amendment now, is law, the Athens Concert Hall is made with this amendment by a public body in a form that looks like either the National Theatre or the Opera or other relevant. That is what is happening with the amendment. So there's no more discreet thing called the Great Music Organization. It's all a part of the general government. Secondly, the figures you mentioned for the Governing Council do not apply. The Governing Council shall now be eleven. They are not nineteen, they are not eighteen as they used to be, and they are three on behalf of the Group of Friends of Music and the rest of the State, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture. Thirdly, as far as the whole building is concerned, there is a valuation made by the Concert Hall of Music before this amendment was made. I got the number here. The valuation of the building, as you say, was made by “Alpha Urban Real Estate”. The report has been audited by DELOITTE's chartered accountants and the value with these figures is around 877 million. That's what I don't know what it's worth. The point is that we are not going to sell the Megaron so that we can claim such a price, but the whole Athens Concert Hall - I am coming back - is public. What was there before is what you said. There were two parties, the Group of Friends of Music and the State half a tenth board of directors, so that it was five and five. In this sense, there was a veto all these years from the Association of Friends of Music, in relation to the programs and the rest of the Megaron. This changes radically and directly. There's no veto of any kind. The agency is now an agency of the General Government and is completely governed by the public. From that point on, why are three members left by the Group of Friends of Music? And for historical reasons and for a reason related to the initial assignment to the State, in order to build the Mansion, the property of these people. That also makes it necessary for constitutional reasons to have one reason if we want to sell the building. Because no one's going to sell it, there's no word in relation to what's going to happen in the Hall. And one last sentence. The privilege of the Group of Friends of Music is in the place where the music library existed. It remains a music library that is managed in a way without further economic processes, burdens of the Concert and the possibility of organizing some concerts a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Minister. I'll be clear. I have a disagreement, because I know from companies and how they work. Once you need a quorum of nine members to make a decision on the management of the property, the state doesn't decide. You need to get the agreement of the three other members, so that is clear, self-proof that is not the case. Secondly, I do not understand why we put the paragraph that the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Sport will receive project management and management after thirty years. I don't understand that. Why should we take it after thirty years and not today? You're telling me we're running it today. Let's write it that the administration and management are starting today. Why do we put it after thirty years? Since you are saying that it has come to the public since now, and there is the administration today, that this paragraph should be removed, because I do not understand it. This paragraph cancels what you say to me, that the management of the property and the administration will come after thirty years. That should change. I would also like to make a comment from here on its viability, on the business plans and what they are going to do, because, as I have said in my question, does the public intend to give guarantees to public administration, management or co-management of public and old abusers? I'm not afraid to tell them abusers because they put us in the 326 million bucket and managed billions, but now we say, "Oh, they put money and something to build it." I don't care to confiscate it in public. They had bad management. Is it objectively mismanagement and will they enjoy insurance and tax amnesty? From now on, will the Music Hall still operate on its own, in a special non-competitive and in full inequality and imbalance, with the other healthy businesses that act in the crisis that we received from five years of monuments, as a government to run again and manage without having insurance and tax information? Shouldn't that inequality stop? I am saying this because, if amnesty and tax and non-confidentiality continue to have information and we have to take command and management after thirty years, all is certain that we are giving a very bad message to the Greek people. The only record is that we will be back in the bucket, and we will not have control over and debt will be created, and the property will be seen and looked at, and we will say "a very nice hundred and seventy thousand square feet, the 877 million." I would ask you to hand it over to the Minutes to see the assessment, if you have any kindness, of the company "ALPHA ASTINS S.A.". I would like an answer to what they say in particular. It must not continue the same management, with tax and insurance amnesty, because it involves fraud and inequality towards the healthy business of all Greek businesses. If you want to answer me on the other issue I have said about management after thirty years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u17	Mr Balta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u18	Looks like we're not communicating.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u19	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u20	What do you mean, he's not in public management right now, and for thirty years? So let me explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u21	If this is removed, we won't argue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u22	Please, Mr. Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u23	Let me explain. The mansion is currently fully managed by the public through an administrative board, as we have at the National Theatre, as we have in Opera, as we have everywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u24	Why do we put that on?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u25	On the basis of this public management of the mansion, we now say that the Theatrical Museum will go there, possibly the festival will go, possibly other bodies will be given, and that is our responsibility and our responsibility. From that point on, there is a contract, as with all the institutions, which grants the state to the National Theatre, Opera, to the Concert Hall to do its program and the corresponding mansion - I repeat - says: "I will also contribute there by finding sponsorships, finding tickets, and so on." Thirty years is symbolic for the reasons I have been telling you about constitutional. Right now it's in full public ownership. The Governing Council shall designate the public, the policy of the Governing Board shall be audited by the public and so on, such as any other supervised body. What else can I say? I'll add the other one. I don't know if you're reading the newspapers around, but there's exactly the opposite criticism, that we're staggering the mansion, and so the SYRIZA Government is building a kind of Soviet arts treatment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u26	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u27	Both critics cannot pragmatically stand. That is why we should try to find out that what you say does not correspond to things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u28	Thank you. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the pages in. 62-63]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, nineteen students and students and two educational sessions from the Municipal School of Agios Dimitrios. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move on to the debate of the fifth under number 536/15-2-2016 on the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party MP, Stavros Tassos, on the necessary measures to protect public health and direct staff with permanent medical and nursing staff of all health establishments on the islands of Forna. Mr Stavros Tassos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, in the Forens there is a multi-powered medical office, which provides for two positions of agricultural doctors, a position of general medicine, a nurse and a midwife. Since yesterday, Wednesday, February 17th, there is no doctor. We know that about five months ago a doctor of general medicine had been hired, which went for a short time - perhaps a month or less - and then somehow disappeared. There was a rural doctor who yesterday left too. So there's no doctor. In the islands of Furnas, which are not only the Fournes but also Thymana, we have three settlements, two rural doctorates and a multi-powered doctorate with a population of two thousand inhabitants, with many young children and families, women, but also older people, AMEA, people who need continuous monitoring and care, with primary schools, high school and high school. This whole world so far has had health care from only one rural doctor. Now, like we said, no one. At the rural office of Thymena, which is a small island with unique means of access to any centre on boats, there is no rural doctor, as foreseen. In the rural office of Chrysomilia, located in a remote area, with great difficulty accessing any centre, does not serve a rural doctor there. This is not the first time that the regional hospitals of Thymnasia and Chrysomilia remain uncovered by a doctor or that, in the Fortress of Fortress, the doctors provided do not serve. The local people receive sympathy and understanding, but their health and life are at risk, as they are even deprived of basic health care, in which they are entitled, because of the dangerous and deadly anti-linguistic policy conducted in the field of health. The one-sided recurring response from the administration that "the posts are declared, but no one comes" does not concern the inhabitants of these islands, as it is the obligation of the State to find out how to cover the health units of the Fortress with medical, nursing and other personnel, in this case. So what are you going to do? What will the government do to cover all positions in medical and nursing staff in all health establishments in the Fortresses, namely, the three units, the multi-powered medical office and the two rural hospitals? To cover directly, now the gaps with the recruitment of permanent full-time and exclusive doctors in regional Thymnasia and Chrysomilia and the Polypower of Fortresses. For the Polyvalent Physician of Forensics, at least a direct intake of general pathologist, pediatrician and nursing staff. And also to upgrade the Polyvalent Forest Health Center to a health center with full staffing and equipment, recruitment of qualified doctors and drivers for the ambulance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u30	Thank you. The question will be answered by the Minister for Health, Mr. Blondos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u31	My dear colleague, I think that once again you are raising a real and important problem of health service deficits, especially in the island country. This is a timeless problem, which has deteriorated in recent years, mainly because of the migration of medical potential abroad. In fact, I believe that the inhabitants of these regions rightly claim from the state to upgrade and improve these services and not to feel second-class citizens. I think there is a more general subject of debate on islands, and we, as a government, must at last, but also as a political system, find a way of understanding, so that there can be an effective package of incentives to stop this inequality in public care and social care. For the specific structures to which you are referring, I know that in recent years there have been gaps - for a very long time - the regional hospitals of Thymna and Chrysomilia and there is difficulty in the multivalent regional office of Fortresses. The information we had just had from the service yesterday, the 2nd R.E., is that the qualified doctor returned these days to the service after a period of absence and therefore at least at this stage ensures the presence of a qualified doctor on the island. We will, of course, continue to renew the positions of the empty regional offices. We have even prepared a package of interventions in the bill, which concludes the debate and is voted on Friday and Saturday in the House, concerning incentives for staffing for regional medical services, particularly in island areas. There is an increased coefficient of pre-service calculation. There are social incentives with the help of self-government. This initiative was launched by the South Aegean Region and it concerns either the provision of a special allowance or free accommodation and feeding to agricultural doctors and subsidiary doctors as an incentive to attract and also here we predict that the Minister may decide to allocate as an additional economic incentive to infertile positions a sum of 1,5 million euros. We believe that if we split it into a hundred and fifty with two hundred regional hospitals that are long-term without medical coverage, it will be an extra incentive to attract doctors. In my opinion, these measures will have a positive effect. However, they do not face the problem at its deepest, and this problem is to make our country's health system particularly appealing to young doctors. The wage data, labour data, the potential for scientific elevation and others have unfortunately been limited to the health system today. That is why there is this increased wave of leakage of scientific potential and, in particular, doctors to the countries of Europe. I think this is the great challenge for the state in the next period. A serious plan is needed to give a signal that firstly, the path of depreciation and degradation of the National Health System is over, that there is a gradual planning - because this cannot be done automatically and massively - to fill gaps and thus to enable young doctors to work. Here too, we also need a policy already launched by the EEAS to open up contracts with doctors and other health doctors and young doctors. I think that with this package one can expect that there will be a significant improvement in these services. However, we have also legislated as an emergency - in consultation with the Ministry of National Defence - the possibility for doctors to cover such vacant posts for a very long time without a doctor. This has already passed and was voted on by the Greek Parliament. We have given the Ministry of National Defence the list of long-term regional hospitals and depending on the possibility of the Armed Forces, I believe that in the next period there will be an effort to address the most urgent needs of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u32	Because this issue, Minister, has repeatedly dealt with all the governments and because we had discussed it - if you remember - on several occasions in the Committee on Social Affairs, I hope that all these measures will bear fruit. But if they don't, the only solution you know what is, in my opinion? When the Ministry is to issue a permit either after examination or without examination, there will be an obligation to serve the remote islands and others by law. You should think about it, because I think that this is a way of implementing it in practice, since all these measures do not work out. Because, indeed, all these measures have been voted on and even granted home - if you like - and a food allowance to doctors, but it seems to be not enough because, as has been said - the Minister said - many doctors are leaving abroad now. Where a compulsory term can somehow be done is when they are to be trained either within or outside. This is the last thing that can be done, but this has to be passed by the House. Please, Mr Tassos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u33	Mr Minister, I think that once again, what you offer the people of the Fourna, but also the Greek people in general, is 'tsai and sympathy'. 'Yes, well, we agree, but there are no possibilities'. Mr Minister, I am very afraid that your policy is exactly in the opposite direction to what you have said. What you are trying to do and what the big chapter requires is to get rid of the cost - because the cost considers it - of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation. And not just get rid of it, but become another field of profit. That is to say, health in the private sector too, because it is well known that if someone has a health issue they will sell what they have and do not have - which is what the reason says - to be able to cover it. So I believe that these questions should be answered: What are you going to do to get these five positions of doctors directly paid? You say to us 'There will be a general doctor and then we see'. That's not the way to solve the problem. And the problem is not solved with your policy. A policy that has one - as you say - a class mark, except that the class mark is of the bourgeoisie class, is of the capital, is not of the workers. Because they're the ones you're serving. And with the new, parallel health program, you're having hospitals that are anonymous corporations operating on private-financial criteria. The 100 million you say you will give to secure the two and a half million uninsured, you will not get them from the state budget, you will get them from the EEA, that is, from the bankrupt insurance funds. And you are doing this precisely because you want to serve the interests of big health and save resources in this way, so that the resources that will be saved are given to the shipowners with the fifty-six tax exemptions, to give the industrialists, to give the bankers and the people to be content with the crumbs, if they take them too! That is why I think that you did not answer the question I have put to you, but the policy you are following is in the opposite direction to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Tassos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u35	My dear colleague, there is obviously a difference in reading political movements and initiatives. I understand the need for opposition rhetoric...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u36	It's not opposition rhetoric.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u37	...but to tell me that the bill that will be passed tomorrow, which regulates the universal coverage of the uninsured and poor people in the country, is a class-participation measure in favour of capital, that really goes beyond any morbid imagination.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u38	I told you these are crumbs. That's what I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u39	Allow me! Please very much. A plan to privatise public health in Greece does not exist with this government. We have increased the 2016 budget, cumulatively the expenditure limit has increased by 300 million euros compared to 2015, we have proceeded for the first time to permanent recruitment of staff and these days people are taking up service in hospitals with the provisional tables of the ADP. A hundred and eighty-seven rescuers have been appointed, also by a "frozen" notice for some time. A process of strengthening the EMCDDA has been completed with ninety ambulances, after eight years of endless delay and objections and blockage of the tender. We have signed six hundred seventeen subsidized doctors in three months' time, but only four hundred fifty agreed to take this position. This is the deepest problem, therefore, our health system with today's wages and today's work standard, especially in isolated areas, is not desirable for young doctors when there is a possibility of finding a decent job abroad. So we want to reverse this picture. Send the signal to young scientists in our country that they can have a decent professional and scientific perspective in the country. There is a very structured plan to upgrade public care and, of course, we want the synergy of public resources. Social security resources are public resources and, for the first time, the EEAS implements a policy of investing part of these resources and in the public health system. We signed EEA contracts with the OSCE, with the health centres and structures of the OSCE. For the first time. EEAY will compensate for medical examinations and actions for the insured persons under consideration in primary care structures. It is an attempt to redirect public funds to public structures and not just to the private sector. This plan is being implemented. It is a policy that has its priority to support and upgrade public care. The difficulties are very great, very important. The landscape is completely bombarded and problematic after so many years of constant cutbacks and staff shortages. However, for the first time this year, I think we will be able to achieve a sense of stabilisation and gradual upgrading of services.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Minister. Series has the fourth under number 501/8-2-2016 up-to-date question of the second question of the New Democracy MP Drama, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Health, concerning the serious shortages of high-cost medicinal products for cancer patients in the Prefecture of Drama. Mr Dimitris Kyriazides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, today's debate on the relevant question, which concerns cancer patients in the county, comes late. Of course, I understand your difficulties, but as far as this issue is concerned, which is urgently asking for a solution, I have to bring it back and ask for your sensitivity, because I believe that this issue is dealt with by everyone with a particular care. With grief and real anguish, which eventually turns into indignation about what is happening in the health field, I received a letter from the Association of Cancer People's Dramas. According to this letter, the association publicly denounces the fact that daily complaints are received from its members, patients, concerning the observed lack of high-cost medicines, as a result of which patients undergoing chemotherapeutic treatment are unable to receive appropriate treatment in the absence of such medication. In my opinion, these people, in addition to the problems they face, because of the nature of their illness, also have to deal with the shortcomings in the public health system in general, which, unfortunately, in practice fails to fulfil the role and purpose of their existence. You ask yourself, Minister, if these are in your knowledge and if there is an intention on your part to resolve this issue so that there are no shortages, at least on matters directly related to the lives of our fellow citizens, our fellow peoples. I would like an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u43	My dear colleague, the point you raise has basically been created at the beginning of the year. The reason was that we went through a new regime, with regard to the administration of high-cost medicines, which, by 2012, were administered by hospital pharmacies and people who needed them, oncology patients, basically, but others who have serious autoimmune diseases, chronic diseases, were served by hospitals. Subsequently, in 2013, due to the dramatic cut in hospital budgets and, in particular, in the budgets for the medicine, there was no such possibility and the solution, with the indication "delayed", was found to be administered by the EEA Pharmacies. This led to a large cycle of suffering among citizens, patients, even patients, who were already burdened with their health status, who had to be set up in the tails of the pharmacy in order to take their medicine and go back to the hospital to do their treatment. This one is being dealt with in a way now. I will admit that this has been done as an incidental move of a requirement that has been made by the agreement and by the prerequisites for its implementation, a requirement of the institutions, that there should also be a closed budget for hospital expenditure. So far there has been a closed budget only for the extra-hotel, it was 2 billion old, now it's 1,945,000,000. This year there is a closed budget that provides for a ceiling of EUR 570 million for hospital medicinal products and says that any expenditure over this threshold will be paid back as clawback and deducted from the revenue of the pharmaceutical industry. It is possible, therefore, that this development may create a problem. In the first days of January, because they had not been informed in good time and had not cooperated with the hospital pharmacies, they had not coordinated in this new system, there was a difficulty in making the necessary orders. Fortunately, after a few days of suffering, this has been restored. There is currently no reason to have high-cost drug shortages. We're at the beginning of the year. The budgets are particularly increased. In other words, hospital grants have increased, precisely to welcome high-cost medicines. The care of patients is better because they don't need to be troubled and go to the EOPY Pharmacies. Prescribing, taking the medicine and treatment at the same time in the hospital. What is needed is a very good surveillance mechanism during the year, how the expenditure is evolving, because we do not really want to get to the point that we have a surplus of expenditure and a large clawback. We have already set up a final team at the Ministry, which includes the Ministry's Finance Directorate, a representative of the EEA, a representative of the EOF, a representative of the HICP, a representative of the General Secretariat for Public Health, the Hospital Pharmaceuticals and the Minister. We will try with a monthly report to monitor the development of expenditure, to intervene corrective actions where problems arise in the distribution, per hospital, of the cost of the EUR 600 million budget, which is for the drugs of the whole country and to make the necessary moves, so that there is no problem during the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u44	Thank you. Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u45	Minister, you made a general report on the hospitals in the country. I would ask you, if possible, because you say that there is also a monthly monitoring of the handling of medicines and their distribution, to answer whether, for the hospital in Drama, the ability of the cancer patients has been ensured, in the sense of supplying the medicines. Because you, too, accepted that there was a delay in this matter. It is lacking in a closed budget, as you said, and in ensuring people's lives, but not in death. I think I should, Minister, have an answer here. And I'd like to know if you can answer something. The Cancer Association Dramas is the largest of the country after that of Thessaloniki. If, however, we do report populations, it is unfortunately the largest in the country. I wish there were no clubs with this very object. There has been an effort, Minister, first of all, to have a corresponding unit at the Drama hospital. While it went on, so far we have nothing new on this. I would ask you, if you have anything new on this, to tell us. There is also the fact that there is no record of cancer patients. There's an effort from the club. I think it should also help your ministry in this direction. In any case, if not only in Drama, but also throughout Greece, there is such a record. I would ask you, if you can, to reply. We also had a meeting of the beginning of the year with regard to the reinforcement of the Drama hospitals with medical staff for whom you were committed. Unfortunately, no doctor has come to this day. It encourages the hospital in Drama to become a health center. The problems are particularly acute. And of course, I am taking the floor from this timely question to ask you whether you have something specific and the more general problem of the staffing of Drama’s hospital. Why, it's been two months since our meeting, and there's no development. We would be pleased if at least one point could strengthen the hospital. Because in terms of completeness, in particular, of pathology - which is always complete - there are two-thirds of specialist doctors away. I am not referring, of course, to other clinics, where unfortunately the same is happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u46	The Minister has the floor again, Mr Xanthos, to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u47	What I can assure you is that we will do everything it takes to monitor the development of pharmaceutical expenditure systematically, especially in hospitals. I told you that an effective mechanism is being set up to monitor it. It is very important to put hospital protocols - which have not existed until now - to prescribe in particular expensive medicines and in the hospital. And there is one direction - and we have already given it - so that there can be joint management of tumour drugs, even with synergies between the pharmacys in various hospitals, which will enable economies of scale to be saved when they are co-scheduled by patients with the same condition. This can be done very well at the Attica basin. For your own hospital, I'll contact the D.N.A., see the distribution that has been made and the drugs...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u48	Minister, you should have already contacted. The question is, from 20 January.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u49	Look, you've raised issues to me beyond the medical coverage. We share the sum of EUR 600 million in health regions. And under the responsibility of the State Departments, based on the data of each hospital, there has been a breakdown by hospital. This money is much more than last year, precisely because they come to cover these drugs which so far have not existed in the last three years...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u50	You are not giving an answer, Minister. This is a well-known matter. What can we say to the cancer patients now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u51	The answer to cancer patients and drama as well as to the whole country is that the state will not allow the treatment of anyone in this country to be jeopardised. This is a signal - let me say - and to the pharmaceutical industry. Some companies, invoking the mechanism of clawback and the closed budget, threaten with possible shortcomings and problems. We must be absolutely coordinated and clear. Here too, we need support from the whole political system that we will not allow as a country such side effects to occur in our country's health system. I want to be absolutely unequivocal about this. We do not have the slightest margin to allow shortcomings in either the extra-medical care of the sick or the hospital. The specific problems of staffing Drama Hospital have been discussed. I think you've asked a question before. They're obviously remaining. There is the design of meeting and meeting needs. There is a proclamation which will come out as soon as this CSCE crisis to which I referred earlier has been completed. It provides for six hundred doctors' seats. There's gonna be a breakdown per hospital. Also, we've made the distribution per U.S.A. There is now a negotiation with the commanders in hospitals at this time and with the other scientific bodies, so that this distribution is fair, that it meets real needs and that it puts a priority. To automatically cover all health system gaps, unfortunately, this cannot be done. However, we can do a hierarchy, mainly by giving a basis to the hospitals in the province, where there are indeed very important gaps and, in particular, to critical sections of hospitals, such as intensive treatment units, artificial kidney units, emergency units, laboratories, specialised structures or units, for example transplants, oncological departments, etc., which we want to have a special support, precisely because they play a crucial role in the quality of services. When we're ready for a detailed distribution of staff, we'll make it public. Tomorrow we have a SYPE, and the commanders of the regions from all over Greece will also come, we will raise these issues, and I will ask for information on how the process is progressing in your hospital as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u52	Minister, have you instructed the Health Chief of the 4th Ministry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u53	Please, Mr. Cryazides!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, this is a serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u55	That's right, but you'll discuss it with the Minister. Otherwise, we are now getting out of the process, because there is now a debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u56	I get it, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u57	There's been a conversation now. The Minister's gonna answer later, so we're leaving the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u58	Has the Minister ordered such an distribution to be made at least for cancer patients' drugs?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u59	You can have the conversation with Mr. Blonde, but we're getting away from the Rules of Procedure of the House. The seventh question under number 504/8-2-2016, on the payment of the redundant employees of the bankrupt companies "FILKERAM - JOHNSON INDUSTRIA" to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, is not discussed because the relevant Minister, Mr. Katragalos, is abroad and is unable to respond. The eighth Question No 385/12-1-2016, on the second question of the Greek Communist Party, Mr. Sakis Bardalis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the problems of workers in the Euromedica Group, is not discussed because the Minister responsible, Mr. Katrugalos, is abroad and cannot answer. The third, with number 530/12-2-2016, a top-stage question by Congressman I of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Research and Rescue in the Aegean", is not discussed due to a misguided obligation by Mr. Dritsa. The first, with number 534/15-2-2016, is the second question of the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vasiliou Yoyakas, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the parametering of the prices for the sale of electricity by the professional farmers/owners of photovoltaic stations, is not being discussed due to a misguided obligation by Mr. Skourletis. The fifth under number 466/1-2-2016 topical question by Attica MEP - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Cassiri to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the "millions shared by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to the bankrupt parties", is not discussed due to an unreserved obligation of Mr. Kurubli. The ninth under number 426/19-1-2016 a topical question for the second cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the immediate reopening of the recycling plant in Heraklion Crete and the reintegration of workers from WASTE SOLUTIONS, is not being discussed due to an unsuccessful obligation of Mr. Kourublis. The tenth under number 497/8-2-2016 topical question of the second question of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas, to the Minister of Health, concerning health problems, serious deficiencies in the Intensive Therapy Units (IMU) and the development of the National Transplant Organisation (EMU) are not discussed due to a workload of Mr. Paulakis. Also, the second question with number 526/9-2-2016 on the second question by the MP of the PASOK Democratic Incorporation - DIMARMAR Mr.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning operational measures on the part of the Greek Police, in order to preserve the security of farmers protesting at the Promahona Customs, is not discussed due to an impediment by the MP. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce to the House the letter from the President of the Christian Democratic Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaopoulos, to the Bureau and the President of Parliament, which reads as follows: "Mr. President, As President of the Christian Democratic Party of Greece I am going to travel to Zambia in order to attend the enthronement of the new Metropolitan Zambia and Malawi Mr Ioannis. That is why I would ask you, as you authorize me, to abstain from the work of the House from 18 to 26 February." Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u60	The House approved the requested permission. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior and Administrative Reconstruction ‘National Register of Executives of Public Administration, Grading Structure of Positions, Systems of Assessment, Promotions and Selection of Heads (Transparency - Accuracy and Effectiveness of Public Administration)’. I also have the honour to inform you that with No. 1740/1295/2-2-2016 decision of the President of the Parliament was formed under Rule 43A of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of the European Court of Justice of Human Rights for the First Session of the Parliamentary Period. This decision has been posted to Parliament's Transparency and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting. The abovementioned Decision reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u61	The fourth question under number 532/15-2-2016 of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the payment of the single payment and the allowances due by the Greek Agricultural Insurance Agency (ELGA) for 2015 to farmers will be discussed. The question will be answered by the Minister, Mr Apostleu. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, you will allow me to say that one of the ministers who announced that they have a workload is in the cafeteria.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u63	Who's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u64	I can't tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u65	Why don't you tell us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u66	Look who you announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u67	Because as you say, all the ministers are exposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u68	Look who you announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u69	The Bureau cannot do this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u70	What can I tell you? You guys announced he's got a workload, not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u72	Minister, the roads remain closed. Farmers are looking for channels of communication on the substance. The country needs communication and communication, but unfortunately things are getting worse. We hear that both border and border stations are closed because of the government's insistence on an overtaxation plan for the agricultural productive sector. Unfortunately, you are increasing production costs with your decisions and of course you are making it difficult for the farmer, the farmer and the farm. I have to tell you once again that you are in the wrong direction. It is disastrous for the productive sector that your decisions on EUR 12 000 net income - not turnover - are your decisions, Mr President. The farmer is invited to pay an advance tax, contributions, OGA - ELGA about 9,000-9,500 euros. If this income is from wine production, it will pay about EUR 1,500 in addition to excise duty, and those if EUR 12 000 are from production. And what does the government oppose this? "But if you have 12,000 of a subsidy, it will be tax-free." So, what does the government tell us? Resurrect to subsidies! Do not produce because you will be taxed, gentlemen. That's what the farmers say. That's the wrong message. It has to change, it has to be reversed. Mr Minister, unfortunately, you are also creating problems in liquidity with the inappropriate payment of aid. You created the problem in November - December with the single payment. Today we do not know when this is going to be paid. It would be a good thing if it were to be paid late in April. But you must say so that the farmers know how to do their thing. The second is related to the compensation of the 2015 ELGA, which you have not yet begun to pay for the losses of the previous year. This is the first time since the change in the institutional status of ELGA. Of course, you will tell us when the EUR 300 million will be repaid to the ELGA and OPEKEPE funds, which have been allocated for the payment of the International Monetary Fund and that of the foreign policy that you followed by July 2015. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, too. Mr. Apostleus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u74	Mr Colleague, it is not right to muddle against government ministers. If you really want to be consistent with what you say, name them. It is incomprehensible at this time that all the Ministers who are absent from being accused of being in the cafeteria, because that is what this is about. I am not going to answer the general issues you raised, because a few days ago we had a question from your party and we talked about it in detail. I think we're getting tired sometimes. I just want to tell you this about payments. We tried to put a class in the space. In fact, in December and January, as the farmers know, 54% of the single payment was paid. There were also too many loose ends - almost all - from 2008 to 2014. Some categories of farmers are going to be collected these days because there are loose ends, which have to do with nitrates, with related aids, with young farmers. We're in a payment process. We are not the ones who say that there are no loose ends and that there are no problems. Everything will be resolved through the procedure of objections raised. However, we should stress this once again. You know that it is the architecture of the new CAP, and especially at national level, which creates too many problems and many delays. However, we did pay the first instalment in time, as I said before. Indeed, you know that many European Union countries, even today, have not completed these payments. The main thing you can forget, however, is that the procedures laid down in the Rules of Procedure have been followed and for the first time, after many years, our country has no fines, it has no financial corrections. It has been a regime in recent years to have, in particular, for pastures, EUR 320-350 million for financial correction. It's over, we put it in a row. Of course, there are differentiations from region to region, or a producer can now collect less or more from it than from the previous time. But the amount allocated is that. This is because - you know - the data have changed on how to implement the new CAP. One example I will mention. There are three regions now. You understand what impact this has had on the allocation of rights. In any case, I tell you that, although it was your choice to share, with these difficulties - you have then decided to adopt the common agricultural policy - we are trying and trying. You say "What does ELGA do?" and he's not paying. I say to you that for 2014 the ELGA paid the amount of EUR 175,000,000, that is, 2014 payments have been completed. And you know how hard this year was in 2014 and how much longer it was in relation to the possibility that ELGA had to pay. Of course, the 2015 payouts have begun. Already, the first quarter is being paid right now. At regular intervals there will continue to be payments. Of course, don't forget that we also had a sum last year, which exceeds 16,000 euros for what we call 'aid' through state resources. So we are moving within our possibilities, especially at a time when we have budgetary problems - you know it - and a problem of collecting special ELGA premiums. We all know that thing. However, we are trying as much as possible to satisfy the needs of the Greek farmer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u75	Thank you. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, because you consented to what Mr Apostle said, I would like to say to you that I am not muddling. I said: "Whoever invoked a workload problem is in the café."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u77	"Who?"?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u78	Whoever. One who invoked a workload. In other words, this is still the case. Instead of condemning the honourable Members who are in question, you must condemn the ministers who do not come to answer, saying, not, of course, that Mr Katrugalos, who is abroad, not the programming that other colleagues and ministers have had, who have said the reasons, but that the 'general workload' should be in the cafeteria. I beg your pardon, but this is a hunger for Parliament. If Mr Apostlelos says so now, I would say to him that the rest he has said is of the same plant, the expressions and the decisions. But I'm not telling him. I'm just telling him he's in the wrong direction. Minister, if you were a producer, a farmer or a congressman, and you asked what I asked, would you be satisfied with the answer you gave? Is that an answer? I asked you, first of all, when the three hundred million will be returned to the OPEKEPE and ELGA funds and you must tell us. You have taken it and paid the International Monetary Fund, as you did not have to, and after you had created the problem of liquidity in the country. You are now doing the same in the agricultural sector. You drown him in the agricultural sector. Do you put 9,500 taxes on 12,000 net income? Is that possible, Minister? Is it possible to insist on this tax, insurance and excise duty? Is it possible to claim that there will be 12,000 tax-free on the subsidy? These are things that need to be reviewed. The government has had to do this for a long time, after hearing the views and the social partners - in general terms of insurance - and the farmers - about the particular problem caused by farmers, by the tax and by the tax and excise duties - and not to continue this situation, half of Greece is against the other half. You're provoking conflict without having the luxury. All this cost to the economy, Mr Apostle, by continuing, even this week, the government's inertia to take initiatives for dialogue? Why don't you hear our proposal, freeze these plans, and call for a debate on farmers? Say the word "fresh". Don't say you get it back so it won't be priceless. Although Mr. Katrugalos said he took back the three funds and the one of the ELGA. If that's the case, it's a step. But it doesn't have to be linear next week and next week. Why can't it be done immediately? Are you a pointless minister? Take the initiative. You can. Take the initiative! Mistakes always happen. They've been in other times. Say that "we made a mistake of appreciation, even now come and talk about it again from the beginning". So what do you want? To turn half the people against other people hate, as far as society is concerned and within farmers what you are doing, unacceptable, to turn half of the farmers against the others? Is it a civil matter you want to create, in other words, by degeneration to say that you have won? But defeat will be the country as a whole. I say to you again that you need to change attitudes and the overtaxation of the productive sector, production, deviate. He can't walk. In fact, there's no money for farmers to give you. They can't make it. And if, in the first year, this cost is passed on to food, to the products purchased by the consumer, the second year will come out of production because they will take their place cheaper products and foodstuffs, which are probably produced in other countries, but of degraded quality, which poses other risks to the Greek consumer. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. But I must tell you that I said that the Bureau is not responsible for chasing the ministers if they are or are not in Parliament. That's what I said. I didn't say it was the MPs' fault. The second is that, in fact, at the Conference of Presidents, as you know, and Mr Voutsis and I have said that we need to upgrade Parliament to see the ministers come and take two measures. One is that the question will be repeated automatically, namely that it will not be re-issued, so that the Minister knows that he will respond. The second is that the Minister cannot state in vague terms the word 'coma', but he must indicate what the coma consists of. These two decisions of the Conference of Presidents are, I think, in the right direction to upgrade Parliament, because, as you all know, the Member does not ask as a person. The MP represents thousands of people in this Chamber and they are supposed to - these people. The Minister must therefore answer the people who ask, the citizens and not the MP who appear as their representative. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-one students and students and an educational attendant from the Hatzievi School. The House welcomes them. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u80	You've been generalizing your question again. I will simply say to you, Mr President, that all of this, and in particular the tax and insurance, are expressly mentioned in the agreement within and not just intervention on these matters. The agreement clearly states that you will do that, we will do that, we will do that. What we will do as a Greek parliament, then, together with you, two hundred and twenty, all those who were in favour of the country's European course, have agreed on it and we have decided on it, so that we can end this story. In addition, I have this to say: you know that particularly in rural areas we have contacted it on the eve of the elections while you can't imagine. So don't actually transfer it - do you? - and isolate - because that's what you're doing - issues that we've co-decided on. As regards what you said, 'We are turning some farmers towards the other farmers', I will tell you that from the outset, which were mobilisations, what we told them was 'Come to have a dialogue'. What the Prime Minister insisted and insisted was 'Come and have a dialogue'. And we said that in this dialogue we all want to come, not separately one day, the other day the other group, the other day the third group, because this is against rural space, against cooperation, and cooperation, which must exist in rural areas. And we said very simply that we want the committee to have such a delegation covering all the farmers who are currently in the process of mobilisation. If you interpret this as trying to get farmers to fight with each other, I cannot give such an interpretation. You referred in particular to the OPEKEPE and ELGA reserves available. We have said this again, and we say it again, that according to a ministerial decision we are obliged, when our funds are not directly required to be disbursed, to make better use of them. And in this case, you know that a large amount, in particular OPEKEPE, has been parked for years in a banking institution with 0.5%, and we came and put this money back in the Bank of Greece with 2.3% - 2.4%. Wasn't that for the benefit of the rural area? Of course, we stress that once this is necessary to make available and we cannot cover it, we will ask the Bank of Greece to make the payments in question. However, since you did say so the day before yesterday, and you repeat that they were used to pay the International Monetary Fund - you did, I do not forget that, I say, and the phrase that the Apostle was executed as a 'dark mission' - and after that, of course, since it was a whole story here and there, you said it was about the visit of the International Monetary Fund to the Ministry of Rural Development and Food.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u81	Visit? You put the agricultural sector in the IMF.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u82	I repeat, 'the house of the hanger is not talking about rope'. Not only did the International Monetary Fund come to the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, but you, who brought the International Monetary Fund - have even brought it and agreed that you did not even read it or even know what you agreed - you are here today and you are really asking, in particular, for a visit, which was never done? So you committed the country to the International Monetary Fund. You didn't read. You have not confessed to having a huge responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u83	The agricultural sector in the International Monetary Fund has been put in it by you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u84	I do not want to exacerbate the situation any more, but please, Mr Kegeroglu, a little truth to what you have to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u85	In the Memorandum, you put them, after the other actions of Mr Lafasan.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u87	Tomorrow I hope you will not invoke a coma, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u88	The sixth question will be discussed under number 528/12-2-2016 for the first time by the Member of Parliament for the Flash of the Independent Greeks Mr Vasilis Kokkalis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the activation of the Farm Card. Here, Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, as you well know, farmers' incomes are not monthly. Their problems are too much. In view of the fact that in the last six years the delays in payments have been too large - whether they relate to compensation for either nitrates or other programmes - coupled with high production costs there is a strong liquidity problem in the rural area. Recently, you announced the farmer's card, which we believe is in the positive direction. In this question we are making the following points: How exactly will the farmer's card work at what rate? It's a very critical interest rate, which the card will have. And finally, if there's provision for the inconvenience. Because the subsidy itself is actually to be pledged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u90	Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u91	My dear colleague, in fact, the problem of liquidity in the rural area is most acute, how much more so when the abolition of the Agricultural Bank had taken place as a credit instrument in the rural area. So we in the context of the implementation of the new policies that we want to have in rural areas are implementing the farmer's card, just as you mentioned it, with the aim not only of helping to improve the liquidity of rural areas, but also of being a development tool for rural areas. In fact, in order to implement this project, the Ministry has made a statement that the national exclusive national trade mark has been deposited and enacted as a verbal 'farmer's Card - AGROKARTA' and that is an illustration to the competent authorities. This has been guaranteed by the Ministry of Rural Development. We want the Greek farmer to be able to make withdrawals and finance the operations of his holding on an annual basis, using the aid that is entitled to under the Rural Development Programme and, more generally, the aid resulting from his rights, as a guarantee. Of course, it is a fundamental question of these funding, which indeed have a guarantee of their service, that is what you say: the low interest rate. It is high time that the rural area ceases to be a tuco-culculculal victim in general of the operation of the credit process in the rural area. All the institutions established in Greece will be informed about the content and implementation of this product in the rural world through the Association of Greek Banks, with which we are in constant dialogue on the successful outcome of the project. In fact, I had a few days ago and a meeting with the President of the Association of Greek Banks, Mrs Katseli, who, too, expressed the desire to assist the Ministry in the implementation of the farmer's card. We, therefore, through transparent procedures, in terms of parity, are prepared to work with every body, every banking institution that wants to help in the reconstruction of the production process, particularly in rural areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Apostle. Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u93	I'm covered, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u94	The eleventh question will be discussed under number 455/26-1-2016 of the Member of Parliament for the Independent Greeks, Vassilis Kokkalis, with regard to the need to exclude the Euboean Gulf from the implementation of the Ministry's decision authorising fishing with the Vinzotrata tool. Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, in the past, the state has often intervened with prohibitions of overfishing with super-intensive tools in the Evian Gulf. In addition to humanism, the present Government is clearly engaged in defending the environment, in particular seas and water. In particular, as you know most about me, the Evian Gulf, due to the peculiarity of the surrounding coasts, is an almost closed maritime area. Under the most favourable conditions, the waters of the Euboean Gulf need at least five years to be replaced by Aegean waters, while fish stocks disappear. On the other hand, fishing vessels with the catastrophic "video trawls" are operating much more clearing for the bottom way than for trawlers, because the latter are prohibited from approaching the coast at a distance of less than one mile and at a depth of less than fifty metres, and on the contrary, the Vindzotrat tool operates from its very nature on the coast and up to a distance of up to 100 metres from it. For all these reasons it is imperative to exclude the Gulf from the application of No 7317/142567/18-12/2015 of your own decision. After that, do you ask what you intend to do to exclude the Evian Gulf from the implementation of this decision allowing fishing with the disastrous gear of the veto?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u96	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u97	Mr Colleague, your question is very correct and is particularly relevant to me, because I am from Evia and have been following these matters for years. But I want to have a little time, to make this clear, because it employs a lot of people in particular in the fisheries sector. Fishing with the Vinzotraat tool shall be governed by the principles and provisions of a specific regulation of the European Parliament and of the European Council. There are also specific provisions on the part of the Ministry of Rural Development. I would say that they have as their main reference the sustainable exploitation of Mediterranean fish stocks. However, the regulation states that at the request of a Member State, the Committee may authorise a derogation on terms and conditions and also given that this type of fishing cannot be carried out by another gear and is subject to a management plan setting out the conditions and conditions for fishing with that gear. The management plan shall be based on validly updated scientific data. From the outset, I should like to stress that the fishing of the vivo-traat in our country is based on a ministerial decision, which we made and ended in a few days' time, namely on 25 February. Its duration, too, as provided for in the decision in question, is minimal, about two months, because we started on 18 December. Of course, weather conditions were such that they did not allow for full exploitation throughout the year. I am of course clear about one thing: the economic crisis has also been taken into account in this decision and all that is experienced not only by the Greek citizen, the employed person, the farmer, the professional, but also by fishermen. Therefore, this activity, i.e. testing fisheries for research purposes, was considered necessary to supplement the scientific data supporting the management plan for fisheries and vegetarian. The continued use of this tool will ultimately depend on whether or not the management plan we have submitted to the European Commission. I would like to point out that the possibility of approval is not many. However, if this specific management plan is adopted, the fishing of vegetarian trawls will be carried out strictly on the basis of a specific plan, on the basis of the approved plan resulting from this process. One of the most stringent conditions that will enter into the specific management plan, in the decision, is the ban on areas where the seabed is covered by the so-called Poseidonian meadows, which especially exist in the Evian Gulf. For us, however, it is first and foremost that the mapping of Poseidonian territory is already going to be completed. Therefore, having completed the mapping and at the same time presenting a strategic plan, as I have told you, we will await the approval of the European Commission, under the conditions that I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u98	Mr Kokalis, before I give you the floor again, I would also like to inform the House and the Minister that this matter has been in our country for many years. When Mrs Damanakis was the Commissioner for Fisheries there was a reasonable request, in my opinion, Minister. Turkey does not belong to the European Union, does not have to apply the European Union's dialects. So, then, there are areas away from the Turkish coast one or two miles - a characteristic example of Kos - where the fishermen on the other side with veins fish on the same sea. Therefore, if disaster occurs - from the study you are doing - the sea is not protected, since it is already fished by other fishermen. The European Union must therefore make an exception to at least these regions. Because there is no reason for the fishermen of Greece to obey the direcdy, while the other side, which does not belong to the European Union, has no reason to obey the European Union's direcdy. The issue is therefore peculiar from region to region. It is not a single matter for the whole of the territory. You have the floor, Mr. Red.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. In addition, I would like to say this because you said that the validity of the decision now ends in February and it is likely that the authorisation will be delayed if it is adopted. Will this decision be extended, given that vessels authorised to fish with Vinzotrata can also fish in open seas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u100	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, I agree with you. But look at what many times the difficulties that we in the respective Councils of Ministers are facing when this issue is known. When we talk about the Mediterranean, unfortunately, it is us and the countries of Italy and Spain, which are part of the Mediterranean, which are trying to manage fish stocks. On the other hand, unfortunately, there has not yet been a more general approach, I would say, to manage fish stocks and other neighbouring countries, which is very serious. It is an issue that concerns the European Commission itself. As far as fish is concerned, I would like to tell you that Euboikos is a good fisherman, and we particularly want Halkidians, Evboes, because we use fish as a tool for attracting visitors, especially on weekends in Chalkida. What I want to tell you is that the Ministry of Commerce has indeed been informed that this procedure is over at the time. There is a strict control by the Port Authorities of Chalkida, Rafina, Karystos and Eidipsos. Details of monitoring have been given by the Ministry of Rural Development. I tell you there are several fines every year. They're being watched and really doing good work by the port authorities. Let us hope that at some point we will come to a decision, which will at least have the approval of the European Commission, but at the same time will also protect the fish stocks of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u102	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, forty students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Municipal School of Saints Theodoros and the 6th Municipal School of Saints Anargyro. The House welcomes you guys.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, we move to the second with number 533/15-2-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the change of the existing legislative framework as regards the crisis time of Greek Police officials. In this timely question, the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction will answer Mr Nikolaos Toskas. Mr Kyriazidis has the floor to develop his timely question for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is a difficult day for me both, but much more for the Greek police, which I served for thirty-six years. Apart from the formal question of the timely question of 8 February, which was tabled for reasons of prevention and deterrent, on the grounds that it may be possible to resurrect Greek police officials, this has unfortunately not been avoided. One would say that a front or, if you wish, a special mention can be made of decommissioning, the storage of reliable executives, such as that of the Director of the Electronic Crime, Mr Sfakianakis, which, of course, puts us in particular concern, Minister. The top officials of the Greek Police and along with them, and society are following with surprise and concern the administrative counter-reformation that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has been implementing in practice in the Security Bodies in recent years. Following the initial disarmament and the systematic dismantling of the Greek Police, it is clear that the concepts "SYRIZA" and "public order" are first uncompromising and derogating in the last few months, the Government has limited its "institutional" intervention to actions and choices which, if anything, have demonstrated once again how it means the "first time left". After the first bar of indefensibility with the deportation, the release of worthy officers of the Greek Police, such as that of the Director of the Home Office of Home Affairs, who was finally demobilised yesterday, the next phase of the project is now clearly being implemented, after the publication of a presidential decree on the time of the crises and the amendment that recently came, in order to clean up the Chief of Greek Police. Already in execution of what was predicted, following the return of the Presidential Decree by the Council of State, which was forced by the Government to bring an amendment to the removal of the Chief of Greek Police, huge issues are raised, Minister. You ask: What is the feasibility and reason for changing the existing legislative framework? Also: Is there a rumour that has to do with smuggling a list to promote good and friendly government officials, because we have previously lived on such lists that, unfortunately, led the police several years back?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. Mr Nikolaos Toskas has the floor. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kyriazides, first of all I think we should be a little more careful when talking about party separations in terms of government management and when it comes to your question that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and public order cannot be combined. I thought you have forgotten the property concept that the Right had for the hard mechanisms of the state, whether they concern the Armed Forces or the Security Body. I see you're continuing that concept. Crisis, of course, continue in the Security Body and I would expect a question when the crises are over, not in the middle of the crises. Or is this an attempt to influence? Because away from us, property concepts, far from us, perceptions with lists. I can inform you that the service councils have been surprised when we said 'you can judge in consciousness'. They'd known otherwise for years. With regard to 'cleaning' - within many introductory words, the word - of the former Chief of Greek Police, I would inform you that it is not a question of decapitation. Mr. Chucknakis was an excellent Chief of Police, I had excellent cooperation with him, he helped me very much. He was two years in charge of police and I think after two years it's time for someone to be replaced, for a new blood to come in, for there to be a new push on the various issues. Therefore, this is not a question of decapitation or of launching. I honor the man, and I think things went very normal. As far as the dates of the crisis are concerned, there was a completely different regime. At the beginning of January, the crisis of the Fire Corps, on March 1st of the Greek Police, and in April, the change of the Chief of Police, i.e. the crises of the existing and after the chief, had taken place. These are irrational things. We tried to include them on specific dates, that is, instead of 1 March, in these days. There's not much difference in the dates. We are moving forward in rationality and justice. Of course, because the name of the Director of Electronic Crime, who has been so close to him - and you are adopting him, I see this doro, and you too - I would like to say that the concept of the political leadership of the Ministry and the leadership of the Greek Police is about the police skills of the people and the abilities of the community, not about the skills that some have in public relations or the time they have in the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kyriazidis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u108	Minister, your Government amazes us because it is well known that Maj-Gen Sfakianakis is offering to Greek society. I met him when he was a young officer on the fifth floor of GDR, where he was anxiously trying to set up this system, which many did not understand. You, of course, considered that he no longer offered and could not offer. It's incomprehensible. It's considered an immunization for us. In any case, you think she was inappropriate and more publicity. That's how I realized it. But, Minister, I would say that the launch of the Greek Police Chief also took place before he completed his term of office, because he completed it in April. You returned by decree, which was returned, because there should be the "cleaning" - within introductorys - of the Chief - you have, of course, succeeded, as far as his removal is concerned - since it is certain reasons that justify the removal of the Chief of Greek Police, that is to say, whether he has completed two years of his term of office - he has not completed - whether he has applied himself or whether something as an event is directed against him. And you confessed that he was one of the most worthy Chiefs of the Greek Police. But, Minister, I have to tell you that last year and this year you'retired' - in introductory form - in other words you have driven from the College of Greek Police the whole of the police leadership, police directors, Brigadiers, generals, more than two hundred twenty to the whole. He did not have a member of the Greek Police, in order to direct, guide, plan, plan for this sensitive area, where, in fact, pre-service and good performance should be an element. Unfortunately, it seems that for the government, these are not sufficient elements to maintain the Greek police stay, but there are other elements. In twitter, Mr Tsipras said, we have chosen the honest, indiscriminate and capable. So, the people you kicked out that way were dishonest? Were they unfit? Were they corrupt? If there's any such evidence, you can tell us. But you cannot justify the fact that last year and this year the whole police leadership has driven it out the way you chose, under an evaluation. It is two years for you to make the choices, the crises, while you said that you as a government would bring about regulation, so that the whole process can be carried out through a intergroup parliamentary committee. That was your commitment. That was your program. These were your commitments to the Police Corps. On the contrary, you have proceeded with this dismantling of the honest, competent and operational police officers of the police leadership. If you insist on following exactly what is said in terms of SYRIZA youth, either abolishing units such as DELTA, or retiring competent officers, such as this senior officer of the Internal Affairs Service, this gives the sample and message of how the SYRIZ Government operates in the Security Body. If you want to retire everyone, you can make one - if you want - a statement so that you can hire the Greek Police people from Exarches in order to better know the object, so that you can do, if you like, and at this point a state as you mean it! But that is not what the Greek society does not mean, the New Democracy does not accept that much, for certain reasons, Mr Minister, has wanted to intervene, in the sense of ensuring that it protects a worthyness, an equivalency and also in the field of Greek Police. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Unfortunately, you seem to have another way as a government. We will not allow you to follow him. We must, however, inform the Greek society of what is happening in a sensitive area, such as the Greek Police, which has often been stressed by my own side, as responsible for this area, that, with a national eye, we understand and face the role of the Greek Police, without any intervention, only positive. You have seen that the previous Minister has supported, as we are doing today, so that he can produce, ensure that the work chosen is done in order to ensure the legal order and security in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. The Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Again, the New Democracy has not understood that the ownership concept has passed away, that the personnel of the Security Councils have understood, that it does not belong to a particular party and that it belongs to the Greek people and that it only serves. This is our attempt to inflame this perception across the personnel of the Security Councils, to create those structures that are needed to serve the whole. And we proved this in practice in major events, in great protests. In the recent very difficult protests by farmers we have shown how there can be a combination of proper, mild response and red lines, how can order be ensured in society as a whole and how, if you like, humanism and order be ensured on the islands, so that we can put the refugee issue on the ground. Of course, I would like to ask Mr. Cryazides. So many years in power, New Democracy, why didn't it make objective criteria for the judgments of Security College officials? We then start to create objective criteria on the basis of which the police will be judged.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u111	It started, but you didn't go on. You abandoned it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u112	Of course, as far as the rationalisation of the dates of crisis is concerned, I also have a question. The other Member of the New Democracy, coming from the Security Corps and former Chief of the Greek Police, Mr. Discakis, why doesn't he sign the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u113	The topical questions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u114	The timely question, Minister, is signed by only one Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u115	You are more experienced than I am in this area. But you're covering up some things. Cover the opaque and protect the waterproof. That's the point. We're trying to break the waterproof. We are trying to put transparency at the forefront, not the opaque, because the way in which we should choose to go here is to create criteria, support for those people who do not go for one Parliament and the other but who deserve to go through with their skills and serve the community as a whole and not to create armies of protected people. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] Our perceptions and my will, while I'm at the Citizen's Department, will be in this direction. No housing, no transparency and no criteria.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u116	Acts and results others say!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Minister. We shall now proceed to the last time question. It is the sixth question under number 508/8-2-2016. The F' Vice President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the question of the creation of the hot spot in Kos and the immediate withdrawal of the MATs from the island. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Nikolaos Toskas. Here, Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, this question had been tabled last week to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Kurubli, with the question of what he intends to do directly about the immediate withdrawal of MS and how he intends to deal with the matter as a whole, given that Mr Kurublis, as Minister of the Interior, is also responsible for the immigration problem, including the hot spots. I pay particular tribute to Mr Toska, who, of course, has the competence of MATs, but that is not just the issue. But let's start at MATs, because the people of the islands that are peaceful, they've been moved to see the MATs trying to force them what they don't want. In other words, they called for a referendum to express their opinion that they do not want hot spots to be made in Kos, for the simple reason that bookings for tourism this year have fallen by 40% -50%. That means they're worried because they're losing their income. And I am not talking about hotel owners, but about employees in hotels, people in the world, about tourism, and about all of this. It's not that simple, that's it. It's neither local nor so simple. I personally suggested that the government should install the hot spots - if the European Union so requires - on islands which are not a high tourist index, namely smaller islands that have smaller tourism, for the simple reason that these unfortunate people who are transported from the slaves on the other side do not know either where Kos or Kalymnos are. They just bring them one night, drown them on the street, as they drown them - this is a dramatic picture - and they don't care if they go to Kos, Nissyro or to the Forks. That's something you realize. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] So the problem of hot spots even now that they have been made needs to be reviewed so that they can go to places that can help even their economy. For example, a small island would go better and more costly when it does not have the tourism that the larger islands have and especially in our case Kos, which is the fourth tourist center of the country. So people are mostly concerned about economic and much less about the other aspects of the issue. As a result, the question that Mr Toskas will answer concerns MATs. But it's not just MATs. The MATs, if you please, are the top of the spear. It's that, of course, but that's not all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr. Kremastino. Mr Nikolaos Toskas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, Mr Kremastinos, if you allow, I will answer the whole question. However, I would like to say that I was sincerely surprised when I saw this question signed by Mr Cremastino, whose democratic sensitivities are known everywhere. So my question and my concern is this: Mr Cremastine, do you want the refugees to have no accommodation? Do you want refugees to return, as they so far, to the port and into Kos, without having a place to sleep, eat and be identified properly? Because you know humanity and order, as we have shown very well, can be combined. You want her to discredit the island? Right now the island is being discredited. Tourism, as you say, has declined quite considerably, not because of the turnout of refugees but because of the mayor's refusal and other circles around the mayor, who have for a long time refused to create hot spots, resulting in the island - despite the fact that it is so hospitable and has such a good reputation - to risk being characterized as racist and losing not only tourism and reputation, but also humanity. Is it right that some of the little children of the school, the village residents go beating themselves with the MATs, in order to prevent the creation of the hot spot? Then, in the matter of the islands or small islands, it is not right to go - and I think you will accept that - in the 1950s. It is not right to isolate the people who run to save their heads, to take them to a drying place. But also practically, if you want, refugees stay on the island until seventy-two hours. They are then promoted, once they have been identified, in the mainland. So we're talking for a very short time, within which practically they can't go from the big island to the small island, then again to the big island, then to Piraeus or northern Greece, to take their way. So there are practical problems and problems of humanism and class problems. Believe me, the class we're putting in will serve. And we are forced, of course, on the issue of MATs and the restoration of order to preserve the environment that allows the hot spot to be built, because I do not think you will accept the creation of a military camp and some people arbitrarily go and attack with molotovs or I do not know what else and with stones to those who build the camp. I think the thing is on its way. I think the people themselves are convinced that it is necessary and right to make the camp. And therefore, instead of triggering situations, instead of disagreeing on these issues, I think that there can be a consensus with you in order to find a solution that serves, as I have said, humanism and order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The Vice-President, Mr Cremastinos, has the floor for his denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, Minister, far from me, any thought related to racism, nationalism, etc. You understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u123	Obviously. I made it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u124	But that's not the point. I mean, the subject is elsewhere. In this Chamber, about a year ago, I said that if this stir is not taking place now NATO, slave traders will carry the three million on the Turkish-Syria border here, simply because they are taking a European passport. Why would people sit there and not come here? There are. So, these slave traders who bring them. They don't care if they're taking them either to Kos or to Kalymnos or to Nissyro. They want to bring them somewhere they know there's a center. And when we talk about center, we're obviously not talking about drying up, but about small islands with two hundred, three hundred, four hundred inhabitants, having life. That is why we are talking and not harming tourism. That is why I said that even now we could practically accept the situation that exists, but if there is a future, because we do not know when this war will end in the Middle East - it must be arranged, that is to say, to smaller islands with a lesser tourist index, not because these inhabitants are worse than the inhabitants of the larger islands. Apparently, no. But at least it can be for the economy of the island better to go to these islands. Not on the landslide. We didn't say such a thing to God! We therefore need to see this deeper, better and more objectively, if you want. I, too, am not coming here to the House to ask a very low question, if you wish, of political weight, that is to say, to oppose the government. Oh, no. But I see a problem and I am concerned that I do not know what is going on, that is what will happen tomorrow. I don't know, and I don't think anyone knows that. So, we need to take a cool look at this problem. Of course, as far as Kos is concerned, the people are neither racist nor any of this. They're financially worried, nothing more. Now if their economy was going well, what you say, that if they did not react, it would be better for their economy, perhaps you are right. The problem, however, is that their economy is not good today. That is the problem, not whether or not. The problem is present today, for example, they are concerned that 40% -50% of the reservations that have been lost over time will be 80%. Then we have a survival problem. It is, in other words, a problem that we need to see and look at in a way that goes beyond it, in a way that goes beyond it. It's a Greek problem with immigration. It's all about the country, all the parties. I do not therefore want you to misunderstand me either, but I call on you to see it, as I see it at least. It's just.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr. Cremastino. The Minister has the floor, Mr Toskas, to answer his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, Mr Cremastino, I have just stressed your democratic sensitivity, and I mean that, and I did not question it. Stay away from me such a perception. With regard to the practical approach to the problem, you should listen to representatives of European governments who come and see us what they are talking about on the island. We try to prevent them, to show them and to convince them that this island is a welcoming island and that there can be a poor management, in terms of some on the island, as far as the refugee is concerned, but this has nothing to do with hospitality, with the beauty of this island and with the people of this island who are wonderful. So, believe us, we are trying to tackle the practical problem. We don't know exactly when the war will end. Therefore, we must create those hospitality infrastructures and order to address the problem. Refugees cannot be roamed into the port, because it is bad for tourism too, if you like. There's got to be a class in the log. We cannot divert them and transfer them to other smaller islands. We also have smaller islands, such as Lero, where there was excellent acceptance of the issue and of the camp and the inhabitants, if you wish, will benefit from it in Leros, as will benefit from the other islands. Of course, they must benefit in the right way. So we're trying to find solutions. In such a context, I also take the question of your own and each proposal is debated and can contribute to the overall solution. Believe me, we are facing a huge problem not only as a country, as a Europe, perhaps a wider one, which is constantly changing forms. The approach proposed by the various European countries is neither the same, nor the same, in the direction of humanism, nor in the direction, if you like, of the practical solution to the problem. The most conservative voices have emerged in some countries of the former Eastern Europe, which have nothing to do with Greek culture, who have nothing to do with European values. We are trying to fight, defending these values, this culture, this humanity, but also putting a class. Believe me, these things can be combined first in terms of contradiction. We are working in this direction and in this direction I take your question as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u127	We thank the Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction for his reply. This concludes the debate on the topical and urgent questions. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-18-S1-commons.u128	With the agreement of the House at 11.53p. the sitting is closed tomorrow morning, February 19, 2016 at 10.00, on the subject of the proceedings of the House: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, discussion of current questions, and (b) legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
