ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's authorisation of 22 July 2016, PXZ's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau at its meetings of Friday 22 July 2016 in respect of the resolution to the whole draft law: ‘Completing legislation by Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on the establishment of a single European railway area (OJ L343/32, 14.12.2012) and other provisions’.]] We are on the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘Framework for safety in offshore hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation work, incorporation of Directive 2013/30/EU, amendment of the d.d. 148/2009 and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 20 July 2016 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, uniform in principle, on articles and amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 22 to 26 July 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, four amendments have been tabled. One of them is from the Minister, Mr. Papagelopoulos. He has asked us - and the Bureau agrees - to precede, in order to read and table his amendment because he has to leave, because of an unreserved obligation. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u3	The House has therefore approved. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes. That's enough? You want more?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Much less I'll need. It is for typical reasons the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, with the proposed regulation, certain provisions of the Treaty are replaced and specified. As amended by Regulation (EC) No 3213/2003, as amended by Regulation (EC) No 3213/2003, as amended by the last Date of birth: 4389/2016. These new arrangements are deemed necessary for the effective upgrading and functioning of the electronic application, for the submission of statements of assets and declarations of financial interests. In particular, by virtue of Article 1(1), special inspectors working on secondment to the Office of the Inspectorate-General of Public Administration shall be separated from the case-law of Article 1(1) of the Law. Commission Regulation (EEC) No 3213/03 shall be transposed in the case of the same provision. The reference to the assistants of the Public Administration Inspectorate shall be deleted as the posts of assistants of the Inspectorate-General have been abolished since the entry into force of Article 25 of the Law. See Annex 'Question Time'. This legal arrangement has as a direct consequence - and this is the main - to check the assets statements of the above special inspectors by the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority and the Financing of Terrorism and Control of Asset Statements and not by the Chief Inspectorate for Public Administration, which is the head of these inspectors. In this way, it shall be possible to prevent the identification of a verifier and a verifier. Secondly, paragraphs 2 to 5 of the article on the proposed amendment extend for a very short time the deadlines for the adoption of the necessary joint ministerial decisions and the decisions of the President of Parliament, which are necessary for the functioning of the system of submission and verification of statements of assets. This extension, which is very small, as I have told you, is absolutely necessary in order to complete the upgrading of online application and to include the additional information provided by the n. In the light of the above, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 4389/16 in respect of the said declarations and thus to put this application into service for all the obligors. For the same reasons, by regulation of paragraph 6 of this Article, exceptionally and in particular for the submission of current year's assets statements, i.e. 2015, the deadline for the submission of such declarations is proposed to start on 1 October 2016 and to end on 31 December 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, I would like to ask something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u7	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u8	Minister, you brought an amendment from the Ministry of Justice a moment ago. Thursday we have a bill from the Ministry of Justice to discuss. Why cannot this amendment be discussed in the Ministry of Justice bill, along with other issues, and now comes to a bill from the Ministry of the Environment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u9	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u10	Because it is a matter of deadlines, we have to start with deadlines up to 27 months, and it is not certain whether we will be doing so on Thursdays and whether we can do so, and that is why it only comes here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Comrade, the explanation was given.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u12	It is quite typical of the amendment. It doesn't really change anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. The Minister told us that he wanted the rapporteurs to precede. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Charas Kafantaris, has the floor. My colleague, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u14	Good morning. Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law: ‘Framework for safety at offshore hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation facilities, incorporation of Directive 2013/30/EU, amendment of the item. 148/2009 and other provisions’. This is a bill, which I would describe as a multi-legislative bill, because in addition to the transposition of the directive, it also concerns other provisions of the Ministry of Energy and the Environment. It is a good thing that it was voted at first and in the committees as well, it is a good thing - particularly in the first part, which concerns the directive itself - that the consensus and acceptance of the dialogue with the institutions in the respective committee. So Parliament comes to ratify this directive as a bill, which is, as I said before, a product of consultation with institutions and the public. It concerns existing facilities, by means of transitional provisions, but also future ones. Today there are facilities in the outdated gas deposit in South Kavala and in the oil look in Prino. I would like to point out that offshore hydrocarbon production, as well as land production, is a factor of economic development and can contribute to the safe supply of our country. Especially now, after developments in Britain with Brexit and when this is completed, it is of great importance for the European Union too, since the European Union, if Great Britain leaves, will become poorer in domestic hydrocarbon resources. They all started in 2010 from a major accident with eleven victims, a large oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico, from an explosion in an oil-mining platform. The follow-up is a little well-known, I will not repeat it. However, I will say that, in the United States of America's Obama administration, for the first time, new regulations were announced that will govern offshore work. In this context, and the need for the European Union to have a uniform attitude and legislation, both in the prevention and the treatment of such accidents, based on the precautionary principle, has also been made. The fundamental precautionary principle, which this directive implements within that draft law, is also mentioned in this bill. I would like to say here that I call it a multi-project, because it is essentially about three pieces. The first part, therefore, of the draft law, from Article 1 to 35, concerns the transposition of Directive 30/2013. The Directive refers to offshore hydrocarbon exploration operations, old and new, all types, both productive and non-productive, as well as those in territorial waters and those in international waters, where the coastal country has rights to exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. The draft law refers to the specific area of safety and the prevention of serious accidents in offshore installations. Other matters - environment, health and safety of establishments, staff etc. - are covered by the legal framework, the international, national and, of course, the Community. An important element is the introduction of the principle that the holder of the investigation licence is financially accountable for preventing and restoring environmental damage. A competent independent authority, which will be independent of the licensing authority for the granting of a research right, both administratively and economically, is to be set up. For its financial self-sufficiency, it will collect revenues from having hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation rights. Today, in Greece there are two offshore facilities, one in the depleted gas deposit in southern Kavala and the other in the Prinos farm. These two floating facilities, due to their proximity and technical characteristics, shall be considered as one. The Patraikos Convention has already been signed and at least one offshore installation will be added if the research is successful and a look is found. At present, offers submitted for three marine blocs in the Ionian Sea are still being evaluated. At the transition stage, until there are six offshore facilities, the responsibilities of the competent authority will be carried out by the EDPS, as well as the appropriate knowledge and staff. On the basis of provisions of the law, regulations are available which, after consultation with the stakeholders, will be implemented. The risk assessment is established by studying major risks and, of course, is introduced into the authorisation procedure for the granting of the right to research and produce hydrocarbons a new decisive element, an assessment of the applicant's ability to prevent and deal with major accidents, as well as a cover for their liability. It is also provided for the obligation of managers to take measures to prevent the consequences of major accidents and to carry out work on the systemic risk management basis. A major risk safety study is required, a corporate policy to prevent serious accidents, a safety and environmental management system, and emergency response plans are provided for. The independent confirmation of compliance for safety and environmental critical elements shall be established. The role of workers and their active participation is recognised and a trialogue is also provided for with companies and authorities. There are also issues of transparency and dissemination of information, arrangements are made for cases of cross-border impact, and coordination between Member States of the European Union and joint actions with third countries is provided for. Finally, sanctions are also provided for. In Part 2, Article 36 refers to HSY S.A. With this article in the ESA, which is not financed by the State budget, bonuses received at the time of signing the contracts, production exchange, promotion bonus and annual area compensation for all research and exploitation contracts are guaranteed either signed by the Minister itself or by them. Unfortunately, so far the revenues had not been guaranteed, so the signature bonuses of the contracts signed in 2014 were lost for the IFRIC and it is not possible today to operate. The number of extracts is also increasing from five to ten. Five of them are in the process of completing specialists from already public servants, who will continue to be paid by their services, so that the ESA's share capital will not be imposed any more until it obtains revenue. Article 38 extends the existing contract for the exhausted South Kavala gas deposit, located in the TEAPID, to find sufficient time and to prepare the initial studies for its conversion into an underground natural gas warehouse. We see, then, that this draft law, as far as the directive is concerned, is a first important step in the creation of a clear and comprehensive framework, which is absolutely essential for ensuring that this type of work is carried out safely. It is a first important step, because, for the first time, there is significant additional work, which includes the preparation and adoption of a series of specific regulations and guidelines, which will cover the whole range of individual operations. At the same time, the public's mechanism must also be established so that all this can be fully monitored and implemented in practice. We are now talking about the other arrangements. We are done with the part concerning the directive. There are a number of arrangements in this multi-brand plan, as I say, arrangements for the National Block, modernisation, exploitation of modern technologies, acceleration, transparency, simplification of transactions. There are arrangements for two projects - and in Articles 39-44- that were included in 2013 in the NER 300 programme, and this concerns a trade demonstration of technologies, a commitment of carbon dioxide and innovative RES technologies. It is financed from emission allowances sales revenue and relates to innovation projects. The procedures and the institutional framework for their implementation have not been completed, which is why an extension of authorisation is granted. Redefined actions for which a percentage of the revenue from the sale of unused pollutant rights for 2016-2020 is available. A further sum of this will also be used to proceed with the 'I'm saving by house' programme. We have important arrangements in relation to the quarries. To begin with, Minister, I will say that at last the state must complete the definition of the quarry regions - for thirty years now, this has not been done - so that the quarry can be used in a sustainable way. An extension is given for five years. The possibility to define quartz areas expires on 22-8-2016. Let's hope it's the last extension. There are permitted actions which allow building facilities to be built at more than five hundred metres from the latitude region, which is reduced to five hundred out of a thousand. Issues of the guarantee letter shall be settled. The possibility of requesting an extension of one six months after the expiry of the licence or lease contract with the necessary payment of a paradox and an updated ICM, i.e. an environmental impact study, is extended. The obligation to afforestation or afforestation of areas of an area equal to that of the quarry whose intervention area is in any event to be fully restored shall also be abolished, as ensured by the letters of guarantee lodged to that effect. Accordingly, the payment obligation is defined as a consideration of the use not of 50%, as currently in force, but 100% of the value of the forest area. Prolongation of the possibility of applying for renewal of environmental conditions enables land to be used, which is subject to judicial challenge over the owner. We have other arrangements, which relate to strengthening the institutional armour, inspectors' body, environment, construction, energy and mines, regulations concerning the FIM and ESDP. We know that on 24-6-2015 the IGM was reconstituted and this is very important. It is also because of the will of the government, but also because of the workers' struggles. Arrangements for energy inspectors of buildings, heating and air-conditioning systems are introduced in Part Three of this Legislation. This provision relates to the conduct of an activity of the energy inspector with professional rights, based on the scientific background of each engineer, as derived from their curriculum. Three classes of energy engineers are defined, which correspond to the degree of difficulty of the relevant inspections. Examinations are abolished, of course, there is special care for energy inspectors who have achieved a competition. We have a number of amendments. As we were in the course of this committee, I would say that we agree with the ministerial amendments which have been tabled, and with the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Transport and Networks. There is also an amendment that the Minister has put forward concerning the IPCC, which we agree, as we have put it in committee. With this amendment, there is a rationalisation of the regainable difference in the CRS and redefinition of its regulated asset base, in order to avoid a great increase in gas price. As we know, we need to take measures in all directions to boost gas consumption. It plays an important role in this, and a number of regions of the country gradually join natural gas. I would like to say that the protection of natural gas users has multiple benefits. It prevents increased prices for products, services affected by energy costs. This regulation is also very important for the gas industry. As we understand it, this helps to restructure the country. Minister, because there will be some kind of dentistry, as I know, although we are discussing both the principle and the articles, I would like to highlight a subject of topical concern. It is about Athens and especially West Athens, and it is about Tritsi Park. Fortunately, his power supply has been restored. It's an open, serious matter. The Prime Minister last Friday, and the government with arrangements he made, gave the Wireless for the St. Demetrius area, which was something very important. On the other hand, he gave a message, I would say, that we need to overcome bureaucracy and individual issues between ministries. For this reason, I would say, since your Ministry, the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, is involved here, of course, we must say that it also has the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior - that you must take the initiative for a definitive solution to the issue. Because we cannot get watered and occasionally elect Tritsi Park, which, ladies and gentlemen, is the largest environmental park in the Balkans, an important green lung and quality of life first for western Athens and a total of Attica, and be in the state of it. With an amendment to Mr de la Malène's report. 4296/2014 the responsibilities of the Metropolitan Agency for Renewal and Management of Protected Areas of Attica were given in the part concerning the Organisation for the Development and Management of Environmental Park of Antonis Tritsis, the Development Association of Western Athens and are transferred to all its obligations. That is where nothing specific has come forward. I, at the moment, express the demand that the world of western Athens should be given a definitive solution, that there should be a management body of the Tritsis Park, an administrative structure which will remain, as far as supervision is concerned, at the Ministry of Energy and the Environment, the Board of Directors whose participation, in essence, will have a representative of the Ministry, a regional representative, representatives of the Municipalities of Saints and Ilios, the Agricultural University, the Ministry of Education, a representative of civil society in the wider region, and of course, two representatives from the Development Association of Western Athens. I would say, therefore, that it is important that you take as a ministry - I do not know if it is your responsibility, but clearly the ministry has to do - the initiative to resolve bureaucracy, to have a real dialogue with the Ministry of the Interior, and immediately, to resolve this issue. Because it is a matter of quality of life for western Athens and for all of Athens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Screkas has the floor from New Democracy for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin with the last report by the previous rapporteur for the Coupling. Minister, as far as Tritsi Park is concerned, just a few hours ago, tens of Members of the New Democracy are concerned - I am missing the number - we have tabled a question to you so that, at last, you can answer and finally give a solution to a truly serious problem, which concerns the West Attica and which is facing the Tritsis Park, which has remained without water, is left without power for days of yours. We all have to sit down and see what we're going to do about this park, from which we've all been through and watch dried lakes, we see many-metre dry, dangerous for fire. It could be - and it is - a paradise, a lung and is now abandoned and the government has done nothing for nineteen months now, that is, almost two years. Come and see together what needs to be done. We've asked you a question and we're waiting for an answer. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, in the last two weeks we have been working on the relevant committee - we have also heard the stakeholders - integrating the Community framework and safety directive into offshore hydrocarbons research and exploitation work and the inclusion of the European Union directive into Greek law. First of all, as we have said during the committee's meeting, we also agree with the adoption of this directive. Unfortunately, however, this possible consensus, even in this incorporation of the directive between the government, but also of the opposition parties, is being blocked by the government, as they once again bring into an unrelated bill other legislative initiatives, other amendments, which are not related to this bill, but, in our view, torpedoes and bring about a difficult situation and I believe they are harming the end and Greece and the economy, as well as the Greek citizen. I am referring, of course, to the important, which is contained in the bill, which you have tabled and which relates to the amendment to the TEC. First of all, of course, I must say, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that we are seeing a concealed re-changingism in many of the things that the current government is doing, with efforts, with projects which were planned and implemented by the previous government, aimed at growth, the influx of money in the country, the creation of jobs. I am referring to the effort of government officials to present themselves as not beneficial, but even to cancel large projects. Many times they have disagreements between them too. Let me remind you what happened with the port of Piraeus and the agreement with 'COSCO'. In Maximo, the Prime Minister had scheduled a trip to China, wanted the agreement to be finalised, the Minister responsible had a different understanding, it became what we all saw and finally won the Maximo. What about the fourteen airports? What about the Greek? What about the Squirrels in Halkidiki? Behind the issues. And in the meantime, 1.3 million unemployed. In the meantime, everything is done at the end, but two years' delay. In the meantime, the unemployed are growing. Let me tell you about the TAP pipeline. No word from the current Prime Minister. It was only uploaded on Thessaloniki that he celebrated the opening of the pipeline and nothing about the previous government, about the founder of the pipeline, which literally bears his signature on the pipeline. You know very well, Minister, that those who established this agreement signed with indelible ink on the pipeline itself, literally. And that's Mr. Samara's signature. No word about the time when you were in the bars and thought that TAP offers nothing to Greece, does not upgrade the country's geoenergy map, and ultimately does not offer some beneficial services to the country and the citizens. That's what you said then. Of course, when the Prime Minister went up to Thessaloniki, his speech was almost copying of them, which we said in the House, when we called on you to support this national project, which would upgrade the country's role and bring money, will bring jobs that our country so much needs. Of course, two years now, we're only listening to words about making use of public property. And we do not see beyond - to be fair - the last thing we have seen, the privatisation of the 'TRAINOSE'. For TRAINOSE 45 million euros, with 220 million state grants for the next four years, of course, when only two years ago, 300 million was the valuation of TRAINOSE by the company. In fact, Mr Stathakis, Minister of Government, MP at the time of the opposition, said in this House that the price of EUR 300 million to privatise 'TRAINOSE' is too low. Now we have not heard what TRAINOSE is saying, instead of 300 million, is only sold for EUR 45 million. What we are very afraid of, Mr Minister, is that it can also be done with the TECF, after all. Do you want DESFA to be the next "TRAINOSE"? Because, I fear, this is where this effort will come up, which, in our view, is hypocritically concealed behind your supposed concern about an increase in gas price and which will be explained below. First of all, I would like to say that the privatisation of the CIS is the largest one in the country. They will invade 400m euros in the country. It is greater than the use of the port of Piraeus and not only this, but also 2 billion are estimated for investments, which must take place in the next few years in the country. So it is not just the initial price of 300 million, which is the largest so far - see what is now going on against the 45 million 'TRAINOSE' - but it is also the two billion investments that will be made in the country that will bring jobs. It is not just that with this unilateral action, with the amendment you are tabling today and calling on Members to vote on it, the assets base of the ICSC is reduced by EUR 200 million. PPC is also affected because it is 100% shareholder in the DESFA - and therefore the EUR 200 million reduction in the assets base of the IPCC reduces the assets base of the IPCC by EUR 200 million - as well as the Greek Petroleum, ELPE, which participates in the DEPA. Therefore, by EUR 200 million the value of DEPA is reduced, and the value of ELPE is reduced accordingly. One forum you kill three birds, Minister. This is unprecedented. You are supposedly concerned about gas prices. We are also concerned about that, Minister. We want, as a New Democracy, a reduced cost of energy for the Greek household, for the Greek professional, for the Greek producer. We want reduced energy costs - and that is what we tried to do as a government - through the gradual liberalisation, of the energy market, of course, with rules and transparency. And this, in part, has begun to succeed now. You see, for example, that electricity prices, through competition, which has come through the gradual liberalisation of the energy sector, are currently decreasing in households and professional consumers. You see that alternative providers also offer more competitive prices, lower energy costs to their customers, and PPC comes along, responding to this and trying not to lose its customer base, reduces prices by 15%. So you understand how fair, transparent competition helps, of course. That's what we wanted to do. You say you are concerned that if you do not reduce, if you do not reap the assets base of the DESCA by 200 million, you will increase supergae - said the rapporteur for collapsing - the gas prices in Greece. First of all, I will tell you this. We have serious reservations. We do not believe that there is a need for an increase in gas prices. We believe that the state, the Minister, has the potential to reduce - not only to keep the same, but also to reduce - gas prices, if they want to. Because, as you know, of the 50 euros that a household pays, the largest part is state taxes, but also the gas cost, collected by the DEPA, which is also a state-owned company. If you want to reduce the cost of natural gas, be a glorious field, reduce the price sold by PPA or reduce the taxes. So you say that if you don't do that, it'll increase arrogance. I too, if I take your own calculations, which you have mentioned, and have concerns about whether they are valid, I wonder: How much will it grow for an average household? Listen, the increase in the account will be 4 euros a year. How much will it grow - which we do not think will increase - for a household, which consumes about one cubic metre of gas? About four euros a year! Of course, there is no excess of the euro today. But I would like to ask the Minister, who is so concerned and struggling to avoid burdening the Greek citizen. Minister, in May 2016 - I do not know if you are reminded of anything this month - you brought a bill: 'Change in the Customs Code' and you charged, you charged the brutal Greek taxpayer with EUR 449 million in taxes, increasing the excise duty on gasoline, put in his car to work. You have increased the excise tax on diesel, which you have now led the low, popular layers to buy small oil cars for cheaper transportation. You also increased your heating oil. Taxes, which will come from gasoline, are 165 million euros. Taxes from diesel are EUR 224 million and EUR 60 million from heating oil. Then you were not concerned about the popular layers and about Greek consumers, who pay taxes? Then you weren't worried where the energy cost was rising? Why is gas and oil? You are concerned with the four euros, supposedly, the time that he will pay, who consumes natural gas to warm his home. The 450 million, paid by Greek taxpayers, weren't they bothering you then? It's hypocritical what you say and do. Something else is undercover in the back and we want you to tell us here today. Because, if you wanted, you could reduce the gas price if you didn't increase taxes. Not torpedoing agreements which could bring - and they will bring, if they are made - 400 million in the country and 2 billion investments over the next ten years. Do you think you can do something better? Do you think the agreement at that time might be a little better or today in the current circumstances, since the whole world has seen that you have not taken the country, at least until now, to the side of those countries that are out of the way of finding our country? Do you now think that systemic risk has been reduced in our country, do you think you can achieve something more? Negotiate, we are not opposed to this and to support you, if you want, if you will achieve something better for Greece, for Greek citizens, for the economy. But, you don't want this. There's something else he's hiding. And we would like you to confirm if, in the end, what sounds very much in various places, particularly journalists, namely, that you want this agreement to be cancelled, this contest, to go ahead, perhaps - they say - to a PPC group with DESCAs and to sell it to someone later, yours. Are you thinking of that? You should say you don't want to do this today. If that's not in your plans, please, today say it's not that and it's just your pure agony, so that the price of gas to the Greek citizen does not increase, to the poor household. We have doubts about that. Not to mention, of course, the increase in VAT to 24%, to the past and to the basic needs, which are borne by the people, if you really want to be cut and you are struggling to reduce the burden on Greek citizens. I shall conclude, Mr President. Otherwise, we agree with the transposition of the directive. We do not agree with what you are doing in relation to the energy auditors and inspectors. Once again, you heard society and us, but also your own, and you withdrew Article 50 for the land of high productivity, which would destroy overnight property of people and people. There, yes, we need a wider programming, we need to sit down, we need to talk, see how we plan, so that we cannot make what we want, where we want, without any plan. Yeah, let's see. But not at night and without consideration for the impact on Greek citizens. As far as energy inspectors are concerned, we cannot understand why lifelong learning and continuing training are things contrary to your logic. We believe that the update of knowledge, that training is in the positive direction. You come and defend the old-fashioned logic that we all want to cut off in Greece, which in many of our countries has arrived here. Well, we won't support the articles that concern them. To conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this country has rich human and natural wealth and we must use these two to bring prosperity to our country. This use cannot be made either by micro-political tactics or by populism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Eleni Zarulia has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. This draft law we are about to ratify today aims at incorporating the relevant Community Directive 2013/30/EU into our national law and concerns measures to prevent and deal with possible accidents in offshore hydrocarbon research and exploitation operations. Only I would like to make a point that the incorporation of the European directive is already too late, with a delay of three years. In addition, in your friendly tactics and co-government, as well as in the previous one, provisions and legislation are added, which are irrelevant to the main object of the bill. The bill is made up of three parts and we see in the second and third parts that there are inappropriate provisions on matters relating to land registers, quarry legislation, issues by the National Centre for the Environment and Sustainable Development for the CAP, on energy inspectors, on an amendment contract with 'KAVAL OIL', up to the provisions of the Ministry of Education, which were amendments and have now been incorporated into the body of the project. Let's start with something basic. In order to implement the provisions of Part One, an exclusive economic zone should be declared. However, this is not in your intentions, starting from Article 2. From definitions alone we can understand what you want or actually what you do not want to do. The European Directive expressly refers to the definitions in Article 2 that 'pieractic' means that it is situated in territorial waters in the exclusive economic zone or in the continental shelf of a Member State within the meaning of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. On the other hand, this draft law states that ‘the verifier’, offshore, means either in the waters above the underwater areas, in accordance with Article 2(1) of the Law. Volume A27, as in either the continental shelf, within the meaning of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, ratified by No 2289/1995 Volume A136. And by magic, the term EOZ disappeared, which means that this is a deliberate change, which serves political reasons regarding the ever-threatening disposition of neighbouring Turkey against our country, as well as for reasons that are compatible with the demands of American and foreign loan sharks for the coexistence of our mineral wealth. The first part concerns safety in offshore hydrocarbon operations. The need to draw up such a framework was the result of a series of accidents in offshore installations, which showed that these operations are characterised by a high degree of risk and often lead to loss of life and ecological disasters. In accordance with the new regulations, the risk assessment for hydrocarbon research and production is therefore established, following the preparation and approval of the major-risk study. It is envisaged that managers should take measures to prevent and reduce the consequences of major accidents to carry out their work on the basis of systematic risk management. A safety study is required for installations, a notification of geometric and combined operations is required, a corporate policy intake of major accidents and a safety and environmental management system by companies. Involvement of the public in the impact of hydrocarbons on the environment, which is clearly legitimate and contributes to the optimisation of offshore hydrocarbons, including - badly for us - and the involvement of non-governmental organisations that promote environmental protection. Here it should be noted that many of these NGOs are financed by dark decision-making centres, alien to the national interests of our country and acting uncontrolledly, trying to prevent the construction of important energy infrastructure projects, as has happened in the case of the Tower - Alexandroupolis. I'm going to stand by some articles. The general principles for risk management are set out in Article 3. The obligation of managers to take accident prevention measures and to assume their responsibilities in the event of accidents must be considered as a given one. But who will exercise control and what about the offenders? Do we consider the sovereign state to activate the safeguard clauses? Article 4(3)(c) refers to arrangements to facilitate the development and use of sustainable financial instruments and other arrangements. As I pointed out in committee, clarification should be given as to what these arrangements will be, as this could mean that banks with recapitalisation by the Greek people will also finance mining companies. Are we going to have new national contractors, which the Greek people will pay to get new favourable loans? As far as case n is concerned, clarifications should be given on the possibility, by way of a presiding order, of matters relating to the rapid and effective arrest of claims for damages for recovery, in the case of accidents occurring at the border with neighbouring States which do not belong to the European Union. Paragraph 4 states that the licensing authority, in consultation with the competent authority, which we will talk about shortly, approves and appoints the operator. This is a provision reminiscent of the 1980 PASOK and the creation of a party state, where the massages, the rosés and the remoules dominate. At least, paragraph 7 recognises that, when the issue of offshore operations arises, there are issues of maritime safety, of navigation control, of maritime pollution and others, which fall within areas of other ministries. Article 5 cannot only be classed as formal. We have serious reservations about the possibility of involving NGOs - as I said before - because the role of NGOs is often quite dark. Proof of the creation of a party state are Articles 8, 9, 18 and 36, which include provisions related to the establishment of the competent authority, which I mentioned earlier, and the necrossment of the Greek Hydrocarbon Management Company, HIS. The EESC will carry out transitional tasks of the new authority, which will be established for the safety of offshore drilling for as long as the facilities are less than six. This company was set up by Law 4001/2011 on the organisation of international competitions to represent the interests of the State, with regard to companies taking over the hydrocarbons companies. However, until now, it does not have the right staff to take up this role. Specifically, it never worked in the original purposes, while as long as the time goes, the resignations of its members follow one after the other. However, there is another relevant company, which bears the name Public Energy Investment Company S.A., TPANE and is established by an amendment of the previous Minister of Energy, Mr. Panagiotis Lafazanis, with the aim of representing the Greek State in the construction and management of a gas pipeline and other development infrastructure. What is the difference of the NSA from the TSE? The difference is that TENE with the money of the bankrupt Greek State will be able to participate as shareholder in the investment of exploration and production of oil and gas. So we are talking about three companies, including the so-called new competent authority, where the ministers concerned are appointed to the boards, so that there is full control. You want to appoint your own children and you were supposed to accuse the previous ones of accuseing their own children. Article 10, ‘Cooperation with the European Maritime Safety Agency’: Standard provision for technical and scientific support for external and internal emergency response plans. I will make a joint comment on this article and Article 27, which provides for cooperation between the Member States to exchange know-how and information. It is clear that it is a good thing that our country is working with organisations and other countries in the offshore sector, because we do not have the necessary level of hydrocarbons research and extraction. However, we have the Hellenic Marine Research Centre, ELKETHE, which has participated in research into new hydrocarbons in the northern Aegean Sea and is a unique body, which can carry out underwater geological and geophysical studies, as well as integrated studies of the marine system, including environmental impacts. That is why we also tabled an amendment on Thursday 14 July 2016 with a general number of 545 and a special 39 to ensure the participation of the PPE Group in the advisory procedure for offshore hydrocarbons research and exploitation. Of course, we're wondering about her luck. Did you read it? Did you evaluate her? Can the Minister responsible make a statement on this matter? The second thing I would like to point out is cooperation between countries. Why should we only engage in partnerships between the Member States of the European Union? Who does such an action benefit? Why not work with other countries, which have a high level of know-how and expertise in this area, which have knowledge of emergency situations and which can give us guidelines? Russia and Iran are two very good choices. Why exclude strategic partnerships that will benefit us both in the short and long term? A national government would proceed to carefully selected strategic alliances, with a view to protecting the Greek underwater plots. By passing now to the second part of the bill, I will begin with the amending contract between the Greek State and the companies ‘ENERGEAN OIL AND GAS’ and ‘KAVAL OIL’, referred to in Article 38. In fact, these are loose ends from old permits, which had to be renewed, because it is not in the interest of the state to get them back because of increased operating costs. In particular, the November 2015 Decision on the South of Kavala has been ratified for two more years. This is a typical case of divestment of national wealth. It is the sale of Greek hydrocarbons to international loan sharks, since in 2014 the entire oil deposits of Prinos were sold to the company ‘BP’ for only EUR 500 million. The look south of Kavala has been passed to the S.H.I.E.L.E.L.D., selling. However, the fund has done absolutely nothing in the direction of recovery and it is widely accepted that this transfer was wrong. It is now a factor which makes it difficult, rather than facilitating, to use the stature. With regard to Part Three, Articles 52 to 59 include provisions of existing legislation and introduce new regulations concerning energy inspectors of buildings and heating and air-conditioning systems. Redefinition of the qualifications of the energy inspectors. Reform the framework and procedure for the payment of irregularities in respect of the registration and management of registers. Separate issues are dealt with in relation to the compliance of the Energy Inspectors’ Register and the Building Inspection Archive, and the process of enforcing the energy inspectors who violate their obligations is identified. I am not going to refer to each article separately for the next year's economy. I would like to say, however, that these provisions came out without any public consultation. It may seem that these concern mainly engineers, but, as identified, they also come to the attention of other citizens. We are not opposed to the abolition of the tests of energy inspectors, but this abolition alone is not enough to solve any problem. The majority of engineers have reacted strongly to these tests, which is reflected in their small attendance to the tests. The main reason for this is the crisis which is plagued and the mechanics' profession, which in many cases makes it forbidden to pay the necessary offenders. The best thing therefore would be to review the examination criteria so that they could focus on demonstrating the possibility of drawing up an energy inspection on the part of the examiner. We have already said so, but let us repeat it - under these circumstances it should be part of the compulsory education programme of the IOIs and TEIs and a course on energy inspections, and the continuing update and monitoring of scientific developments with free seminars from the relevant body should be institutionalised. We must not allow repeating the phenomena of incorrect certificates, which do not rank the property in question into the correct energy category, causing adverse effects on the value of selling or renting it and on the production of pollutants. With regard to energy efficiency certificates, the Ministry establishes a new engravement, in the form of an infringement, in the issue of certificates - in addition to the remuneration of the energy inspector - of EUR 5, EUR 10 or EUR 30 per inspection according to its type. Thus, a fixed exit is transferred to society by those engineers who carried out such inspections, as they paid 100 euros a year, regardless of number of inspections. It is worth wondering why the government chooses to introduce a new elephant in every legal act on structured property at the time the property tax is increased, HNPH - the one you would abolish - and all the financial burdens for the Greek taxpayer. Let us now move on to two articles, which have been tabled as amendments with irrelevant content from that of the draft law to be examined and ratified, but which have nevertheless been annexed to the 'other provisions'. Articles 60 and 62 shall be signed by the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs. With regard to Article 60, despite the fact that the change in the composition of a board during its term of office is not usually an element of reflection, the Minister of Education, under this provision, proposes that the remuneration of the members of a board be paid by primary or secondary councils until the end of their term of office, even though they were retired. Knowing the works and the days of the Minister in question on matters relating to his or her competence, but also on others which do not concern him, we believe that this provision aims to keep the compositions of the councils which he favours active in order to give opinions and interventions of an equivalent scientific range to those which he has used to us. For us, this is not the last time, nor the age structure of the committees, but the work and the quality of the committees. Article 62, the Public Investment Programme, has specific objectives. The gaps in education are permanent and are due to the inability of appointments and are always covered by so-called alternates. A deputy may remain in this situation even eighteen years, waiting for it to be appointed, while the government in question pretends to be interested in covering gaps, perpetuating the problem of substitutes and committing superfluous funds from public investment for their payment. The expenditure in question climbs from 52,000,000 in 2016 to 114,000 in 2017, which means that the present government not only continues its deadlock policy of the former on the subject, depriving useful resources from growth, but depriving public investment and impoverishes teachers in its efforts to manage the gaps, while having previously voted for the memorandum that imposes fiscal adjustments and prohibits recruitment. In conclusion, to close this, many positive provisions refer to this draft law governing the security of personnel and environmental protection in the performance of offshore oil and gas operations and it is right that there should be preparation for these operations in Greece as well. However, it remains to be seen whether the intentions of the present and future governments are to be able to apply these provisions, since, in order to exploit the proven existence in the Greek hydrocarbon area, political will is mainly required to regain our national sovereignty and then declare the Greek EEZ at the same time as concluding energy alliances with countries of common geostrategic interests such as Russia. Our country needs an integrated national plan to convert it into a significant energy hub in the south-eastern Mediterranean, which will upgrade it as economically as - and this is the most important - and geostrategically. Our country has significant energy resources, renewable and non-renewable. Therefore, this plan should include both renewables and non-renewable sources of energy, both offshore and land, while at the same time ensuring the protection of our country's soils and seas. Therefore, fragmentary actions, such as this draft law, will not lead to the desired result if we do not address the energy issue of our country as a whole that will take into account both economic, geostrategic and environmental factors. This, of course, combined with a simultaneous reduction in consumption, a waste of energy in all areas - the technologies concerned are available and could be further developed - and the development of Greek know-how in the energy sector in general. So it will only be interrupted and reversed by the wave of Greek scientists fleeing from abroad, which so much needs our homeland in the difficult times that we are going through. We remind you that a country to survive in the long term needs at least self-sufficiency in food, weapons, medicines and energy. For all these reasons, but above all because we believe that without the resumption of our national sovereignty and without the declaration by Greece of the EEZ, the Golden Dawn cannot support this draft law as it stands, even though there are clear and positive provisions on the safety of workers and environmental protection and I will be placed on the individual articles in the respective debate. As far as the amendments are concerned, our parliamentary representative will be mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, my colleague. The reason for this is the special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr Ioannis Maniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, we have also made it clear to the committee that we will be voting in favour of all the articles of the directive, because this directive has our own seal. In order not to consume my time in things that we have analysed in committee, I should like to say that this directive came as a reaction from the Member States of the European Commission following the tragic accident in the Gulf of Mexico in the summer of 2010. In September 2010, the Greek Government reacted immediately and at a large international meeting in Istanbul, tabling its own opinion, that the European Union is required to take measures to protect the marine environment strictly. In December 2011, the Support Committee for the Directive under discussion was set up. Here I must tell you that the head of this Greek working group was the current academic and professor of natural disasters at the University of Crete, Mr. Colakis, who contributed decisively - both he and his team - to overcoming the objections of Member States - with a developed hydrocarbon industry that wanted much lighter and much less stringent environmental conditions and to a very good alliance between Greece and countries that were really interested in protecting the marine environment. So we have been driven into a text, a directive that actually ensures the protection of the marine environment. In October 2013, after the Council of Ministers for the Environment had now adopted this directive, a new committee under the Professor of the Polytechnic, Mr Mavrakos, completed the preparation. And in December 2014, after thirty-five meetings, she had almost completed her work, which was officially handed over to the Ministry's new political leadership in March 2015. For reasons of practice alone, I shall make the decisions to set up the respective committees for the record. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decisions, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So since March 2015, the text has been ready. We are simply coming to adopt it with a delay of more than 15 months. Even so, it's something. Before I finish with this, I would like to remind the House and say, because things are being discussed, that, for example, Greece does not need to continue efforts to investigate hydrocarbons, that we do not need to do anything else, because of the low price of oil and gas, I will mention just one example: On Wednesday 27 July - that is, the day after tomorrow - Cyprus opens the six tenders submitted for the three sea blocks in the EEZ of Cyprus, in competition with a few months ago. Therefore, in response to those who say that Greece should not continue this national effort, Cyprus in its own EEZ a few months ago launched the third competition round, six tenders were submitted, and now it is going to open up and invite large oil groups to invest in the EEZ of Cyprus. As a result, the current Greek Government will also follow what the Republic of Cyprus is doing with great success in recent years. I come to the second theme of the text before us, of exploiting the country's mineral wealth. In fact, these are regulations which extend the existing regime. I would like to point out here that I have had the opportunity to make a specific reference to the committee, that it is not enough to regulate various individual issues, giving extensions to deadlines. The Ministry has today at its disposal - it was ready since October 2014 - a full file which records that of the hundreds of 11 public mining sites, after a very serious work of three years that had been done by officials of the Ministry and the IGM, our country can now open 20 international tenders for the exploitation of public mining areas and eleven international tenders for public industrial mineral areas. So whoever really cares for our country to overcome the problems and the negligence of memoranda and loans, let us move on to a road that is already open. Much more so since mining as an economic sector contributes 3.4% to the Gross Domestic Product, it employs eighty thousand workers, directly and indirectly employees and in 2014 it exports EUR 2.3 billion. What matters, however, is to ensure conditions for the proper and sustainable existence of mining activities of Greek mineral wealth. In order to do this, we must move on with what had been launched, namely the landfill of mineral resources whose fate is ignored, and of course the twelve regional planning plans, which have been at an extremely mature stage for a very long time and which require joint ministerial decisions, need to be completed. I come to the issue of a number of specific issues - although they are individual articles - because the Mining Enterprises Association has asked for Article 41(7) - because, above all, I would mention that - as far as other mining activities are concerned, it also applies to a very important plutonium piece of Greek raw materials, that is to say, both for Larco and for the whites and for the bauxites. It has therefore requested that the same applies to mining activities as to other mining activities. The Association of Entrepreneurs Marbles Peloponnese has requested something, which is a request from all the marble businessmen: Do not double the rent, i.e. the consideration of land use, as provided for in this legislation, for a very simple reason: on the one hand it strengthens oligopolistic situations and supports large enterprises that have the potential to respond to this specific extra financial burden, while small and medium-sized enterprises do not have the same potential, and on the other, it substantially reduces the revenues of the Greek State, because the Greek State's real income from the mineral wealth does not come from the consideration of the use. The real public wealth comes from the processing of raw materials, i.e. from the processing of marbles, where three times as much workers are employed than in the same mining sector. We therefore believe that this should be withdrawn. I present for the minutes the relevant document of the Marble Peloponnese Business Association. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And, of course, it is good that the Ministry withdrew the provision of Article 50 for 'high productivity' after the great reaction there has been. Last item I want to comment on is the energy inspectors. Here we have a serious political and ideological disagreement with the government. We believe something simple, that the state must be a state-sponsored. It must be a state, a public administration, a state which, instead of absorbing resources in order to appoint new civil servants, must instead act as a posteriori for the public sector through registers of certified scientists, who will carry out actions that the public administration cannot now satisfy. It is essentially the Greek public's only real contribution if we want to stop the Brain drain. And here we must address more than three hundred thousand Greek scientists and micro-enterprises who have gone abroad. If we do not allow Brain Drain, brain fleeing, to become Brain gain, that is to say, to enable them to gain from creating jobs with the positive contribution of the state, then we do nothing. A characteristic example is the ten thousand energy inspectors we have and work with, the two thousand two hundred building auditors and the possibility - I also present for the Practical Draft Presidential Decree and hope that the documents I submit will be useful - to form a body of certified environmental inspectors with the agreement of the Ministry of Inspectors responsible, where we can actually create a new team of free professionals under the certification of the state that can not do what the state can do. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Furthermore, I have to say that it has asked that there should be no specific provision for it to be entered in the Chamber of Technical Names Book, because as natural persons they cannot join anyway. And I come to the last issue, which is a purely political issue. And there is a need to give very clear answers. We have a little history. TAP gas pipeline: Over and above the SYRIZA government. With great pride Mr. Tsipras, as Prime Minister, signed the TAP Convention a few months ago in Thessaloniki, not having the sensitivity to say that at least some others before his Government worked, fought and built the contract. I remember, in fact, as Minister at the time, when I tabled the respective convention on ratification in Parliament, what we heard from the then opposition about the badness of the TAP pipeline. It's okay. Even late landing in realism. Airport of Greek. In August 2014, thirty years after Tritsis Law on the Regulatory Plan of Athens, we submitted the new Regulatory Plan of Attica, where instruments were foreseen that the Greek airport is an international, national metropolitan area site, for urban, tourist and cultural upgrades. It is the framework within which, over a period of months, the current government came and incorporated the results of its competition. TRAINOSE, 300 million, Stathakis, selling. Now 45 million, Spirtz, TIAD, good offer. We have tabled a specific question. Is it true that today TRAINOSE of 45 million of the Italian offer has 25 million in its fund for services of general economic interest and 40 million more deposits committed to the Bank of Greece? Because if that is the case, a very clear political response is needed for this privatisation. Special Consumer Tax. More than 400 million to the Greek citizen. And, of course, the merciless tragedy we experienced a few weeks ago, 'COSCO' - Dritsa. I hope that we do not live up to a new "SOCAR" - DESFA - Skourlet. I come to this particular matter. The amendment tabled by the Minister is, in theory, an amendment which ensures a reduction in the allegedly predictable increase in gas transit charges. Question. Was these increases ever to be implemented, 68%? The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty. That is what the company itself says. Question No 2, by Mr Ephremidis Is there a way, instead of doing what has been put forward as regulation and which is in danger of blowing up a very mature privatisation, that we have the same result without any risk of privatisation? The answer is yes. The answer is one of the four scenarios submitted by the Treasury to the Government. What does that script say? Quite simply, instead of declining - you have no such right, neither moral nor political - the value of the company by EUR 200 million, to turn, to extend the right to recover these fees instead of the twenty years that it is now, in the thirty-five years. In fact, you should come, without any risk of privatization, the same result, that is, the very small increase. Could we do it? Everyone says that this can be done, and so have SOCAR, Azeri and SNAMI, Italy and DESFA. There was a positive picture of the GOI as well. So why are we heading into an action that is in danger of blowing a privatization into the air? One more question arises, because the interest of all of us is the least possible increases in the fee for transit, at the end of the use of the network, because this is in the interests of the Greek industry and the Greek households. If these investors leave tomorrow, will the company have or will it not have been reduced by EUR 200 million? If we want to proceed to a new competition, will we proceed with reduced value or will we increase it again? If the government does not proceed to a new competition - and this is where a question mark is - what will be the company's viability? Will we be content with a value reduced by 50% in relation to the current financial offer of EUR 400 million or not? The issues are extremely serious and require an absolute balance between the will of everyone that there is the smallest possible increase in gas prices and the use of the main pipeline infrastructure in the country and, at the same time, that the EUR 400 million that the national economy is going to receive from privatisation should not be lost. Because if these EUR 400 million that have been lost and budgeted in the pounds of HICP are missing, they must be found elsewhere. Where? From new taxes? From pension cuts? Because the poor CSCE no longer exists to cut that off by the government. That is precisely because we need a very clear, economic and politically documented answer to this issue, we want very clear answers. Otherwise we could not agree with this provision either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Vardalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to start where the previous speaker ended. It concerns the question of the TEC, the amendment it has tabled and incorporated into Article 61 of the draft law that we are debating. After all, there has been talk from almost all the rapporteurs and the special speakers of all the parties. The rest of the opposition is criticising you that you are blocking and there is, indeed, a risk that the privatisation of the TECF will be implemented, with which, of course, all of you agree, and government and opposition parties that criticize you. There is at least - as far as I am concerned - in the newspapers and the reaction of 'SOCAR', which has raised its objections. On the other hand, the Minister argues that this legislative intervention is necessary because it will help to develop in general, by reducing tariffs, so that industries using natural gas as a raw material have a 5% reduction of 6% and thus a reduction in costs. Gentlemen of the Government, the position of your Communist Party of Greece is well known. We're vertically against the privatisation of the CNG. The problem, of course, is not as far as it is concerned, but as such privatization. Generally invoking growth on your part does not say anything. The question is: Development by whom and for whom? Who's making it and who's benefiting from it? All of you, despite the individual disagreements you have, do everything in your power to develop the profits of capital, defending - everyone, of course - in the interests of different parts of the bourgeoisie. This controversy has nothing to do with the interests of the workers and the people. The option to privatize DEPA - DESFA proves that the policy of delivering energy wealth to business groups, which sacrifices popular needs on the altar of profit, goes hand in hand with the exacerbation and opposition of various imperialist centers in our region. Philolian solution can be found. Today, it is also necessary for an exclusively single state energy body, based on the socialisation of energy sources and infrastructure, which will ensure the needs of the people and the country. Energy policy, however, to the benefit of the people, cannot exist in the context of the capitalist development path and commitments to the European Union and NATO. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the incorporation of the directive of the European Union, which, it is supposed, aims to regulate the protection of workers and the environment in offshore work for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. From the outset, we want to make this clear. Firstly, the issue of protecting labour and public health and the environment from major accidents in offshore hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation is, in our view, very critical. And it emerges as such from the risk of these operations and from the serious accidents that have occurred internationally, such as the recent in the Gulf of Mexico with huge losses in human lives and environmental damage. Secondly, this directive seeks to regulate, keeping balances between the conflicting interests of monopolistic groups active in this sector. Appropriate and strong competition for market sharing and strengthening groups' positions in specific regions rich in energy resources. In any event, its arrangements do not guarantee neither the protection of the environment nor the safety of workers in such work. We also want to make it clear, as a Communist Party, that the existence of regulations is clearly necessary, but these regulations on their own do not solve the problem, in so far as these regulations are implemented in the context of an economy that operates on the basis of capitalist profit rather than on the basis of popular needs. When the economy has a basic criterion, there can be no rational use of natural resources, much more, of course, to the benefit of the people, but neither protect nor improve the quality of the environment, as the directive says. And that's why? In order to answer this question, we should approach the relationship between the European Union and the environment through its own objectives - those that it has today. What are these objectives? In today's circumstances the European Union is fighting to ensure the competitiveness of its own monopolistic groups in the face of strong international competition. Based on the service of this objective, it implements a policy that is time-consuming and is implemented in all the Member States of the European Union. Key aspects of this policy are ensuring cheaper labour force on the one hand and finding new profit margins for group monopolies on the other. Capitalists are constantly trying to expand their profits, to find new methods, new economic territories. That is the deepest, the real reason why capitalist development sacrifices the environment, both in the development phase and, of course, much more in the phase of the crisis. What do the system apologists tell us? Uncontrolled, uncontrolled capitalism has such features, not capitalism in general. The state is therefore coming to control this unscrupulous profit hunt, to legislate, to set limits, to force - as does the European Union directive, as they say - to pay for the damage it causes to the natural environment and to take preventive measures. Now, for the role of the state in the system that we live on, a lot could be said. On this issue, however, which we are discussing in the context of ensuring competitiveness, the development of the economy, the current state, not only regulates the competitive relationship between the capitalists, when there are interests which do not entirely coincide - that is, at the same time - with the economic role of the State, is to ensure the general interests of the ruling class, namely the expanded reproduction of capital. Thus, in capitalism, environmental legislation does not lead to an environment that meets people's needs, but to an environment that does not affect these objectives. Even when there are relevant laws, the design of the production process is done in the light of profitability and leads to the maximum possible destruction of the environment, since the capitalist knows no other motive. Ladies and gentlemen, experience of implementing to date the many regulations on the health and safety of workers, on the environment and on major-accidents relating in particular to the bill we are debating shows the political nature of the problem. The objective of ensuring the profitability of the monopolist groups has been and is the basis on which either there is incomplete application of existing legislation or there are intentionally gaps in the legislation, making it ineffective. For example, in the SEVESO directive, which applies to large-scale accidents in our country, there are corresponding provisions on protection against major accidents, such as the preparation of safety studies and risk assessments, major-accident prevention policy, safety management system, internal and external emergency plans, information and participation of the public, etc. Since the implementation to date, there have been serious deficiencies, such as delays in evaluation of safety studies, the preparation of emergency plans for residential areas, population information and preparedness exercises. Also, there are serious shortcomings in the effective implementation of the existing projects on paper which relate to the adequacy of staff and support equipment and direct intervention in the adequacy of evacuation routes and others. There are gaps in this legislative framework, such as vagueness in the risk assessment criteria and lack of criteria for land use and security distances. More generally, the lack of safety measures at the workplace combined with the reduction of labour rights leads to unsafe conditions at risk of a large-scale occupational accident, as was seen in the last year's fatal accident in the ELPEs. That is why the existence of this legislation incorporating the directive on safety in offshore research and exploitation does not guarantee the health and safety of workers, residents and environmental protection within the current framework of the capitalist development path. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to focus on some of the specific aspects of this draft law integrating the European directive. Firstly, while the obligation of the administrator to prepare a risk report and an internal emergency plan is mentioned, there is no specific methodology and specific criteria for this. Accordingly, there are no specific criteria and methodology for the preparation of external emergency plans. The relevant procedures, like those of inspections, are referred to in future decisions. However, experience from the implementation so far of the SEVESO Directive is negative, as no acceptable methodologies have been established for the relevant issues. Secondly, the general principles of risk management set out in Article 3 as a key criterion the theme of the ‘competent’ risk level and its definition is Article 2. Furthermore, it introduces the issue of the financial possibilities of the applicant for authorisation in Article 4, namely the logic of ‘cost-benefit’ for the company. Our direction is to apply the principles of intrinsic security, namely risk prevention at source, to ensure the protection of workers, residents and the environment. Thirdly, strategic studies are carried out on specific axes and then they are simply asked to comment on these studies. On the one hand, paragraph 1 of Article 5 states that the investigation procedure does not commence unless public participation has been ensured and immediately thereafter this participation is diminished in paragraph 2 by a simple public information. Fourthly, the question of independent verification, Article 7(5). On the basis of the bill, the selection of the independent verification body is made by the audited entity itself, i.e. by the manager or the non-productive owner. Furthermore, there is no clear reference to the criteria that the independent verification body should meet. They will probably be private enterprises that will certainly operate for profit. Similarly, there is no clear definition of the verification process methodology on this issue. Fifthly, they allow the separation of the licence holder and the operator, by splitting responsibility and by complicating the identification of the person in charge. The conditions for authorisation are so general that they do not actually allow any effective checks. Sixthly, it does not contain any essential mandatory provisions for the protection of the life and physical integrity of workers by referring to consultation with employers, without any binding effect for employers. They do not make insurance compulsory for any damage resulting from the work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Seven, in many cases it does not give retroactive effect to the provisions for the benefit of groups already licensed and already carrying out the relevant work. In fact, it entrusts health and safety to the arbitrary nature of the employer, who has the responsibility to submit only 'a corporate accident prevention policy'. In fact, the directive is cut and sewn into the interests of large groups by imposing as few, vaguely and in many cases non-binding obligations on the rapid and unlicensed licensing and operation of their facilities. As there is no time to refer to the other provisions, I would like to say briefly that we disagree with the provisions concerning the operation of quarries. I would like to turn to the two amendments we have tabled, Mr Minister, and you have not said a word so far. The first relates mainly to the cleanliness of OTAs. The regulation is necessary because, as a result of the non-retroactive application of the decisions of the competent boards of the ATTs, the workers' overtime is not covered, particularly in the area of cleaning. Employees have worked weekends, nights and cannot be paid. The second amendment concerns IGM. His revolution will remain an empty letter in so far as the problems of his research work are not tackled. From the government's attitude to date, it appears that the interest in effective operation is hypocritical, since all the problems that the Institute has encountered, such as recruitment of new staff, productive use of research programmes, the work problems remain. We therefore call for both amendments to be accepted, because they face a lot of serious workers' problems in these areas. Thank you. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The special speaker from the river, George Amyras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law incorporates into Greek law Directive 2013/30 on the safety of works on offshore activities for the extraction of hydrocarbons. It's a safety thing, that's why. We believe that, although in general we should be on a decommissioning path and we should focus on renewable energy, we cannot of course ignore the fact that minerals are national wealth and should draw revenues and goodwill on the work, beyond this great activity of industry. Now, there are also provisions of environmental and energy interest in the draft law. There are provisions for quartz. Especially in quartz, the fifth extension - five years - for permits for quartz activities shows the timeless weakness of governments, but also of the Greek administration, to form the quartz map, with the criteria, of course, and the norms laid down by both national and European legislation. We also think that Article 50 has been withdrawn, concerning the non-project construction of highly productive agricultural land. We and the committees have said to the Minister that the reduction of agricultural land in Greece over the last few years should lead the Minister to the next time he has the provision to accompany such arrangements with tax incentives for the growth of agricultural land, for the transfer of agricultural land, for synergies and for the combination of farmers and rural activities, as well as counter-incentives for those who keep the land, commit it without growing it. Now let me come to a first point about the draft law. Only thirty - five articles came to the consultation. The other twenty-five articles did not go into consultation and the explanatory statement does of course not mention a single word about these articles, which are many and important. And it is not only the quarries that I have told you about, and for which we have shown particular concern and interest and an environmental, but also economic, in terms of avoiding problems in places where thousands of people work. I remember having tabled two questions, the question under number 2029 in April 2015 and the question under number 1650 in December 2015, and we expected answers from the Minister, who had told us that he would ensure as soon as possible that this famous quarry map has been placed in consultation for decades, which does not honor any government over time, nor, as I said, the Greek public administration. However, we are now coming to the provisions contained in this draft law to tell you that we on the Potami do not think we can have offshore mining everywhere. That can't be. We have special conservation zones with regard to protection in marine protected areas. I would mention, for example, the Sporades, where the seal park is one single. We believe that we cannot have offshore mining in tourist areas and geographically unstable areas. We cannot imagine - and we do not want to think - what would have happened if instead of Mexico in 2010, such a big accident would accompany life in the Aegean. It would be a total tourist disaster and not just. An indicative accelerating of world and pan-European developments can open our eyes to what is going on around this huge hydrocarbon business for a while. For example, France, as I had told you in committee, does not accept any new applications for hydrocarbon extraction. Obama also made a "columnba" and turned his back on the policy he had implemented in the past six years and banned offshore mining on the central and southern Atlantic coasts. Spain has also introduced Mediterranean special protection zones. I think he's got eleven so far. We should know, Minister, whether we are thinking of ourselves or whether we are going to observe and form special protection zones in the Aegean, Ionian and other customers. Finally, Croatia's new government has announced that it is stopping oil mining in Adriatic and is declaring a moratorium in order to highlight and take a lead in its tourist development and especially in the cruise. We, as a party that makes a risk assessment, and believe that we are at the top of the country's energy transformation effort, consider that there must be a balance, a balance between the wealth of our natural and sensitive ecosystems and the other mining of hydrocarbons, as I said to you, which are, of course, a national wealth in our view. But to see how we can move right upwards, we need to see the successful models of abroad. I would therefore ask you to take a short trip to Norway as well as to the other countries which have failed to achieve the offshore extraction of their hydrocarbons. The Norwegian model is characterised by a stability and greater sensitivity to environmental issues arising in underwater extraction. "To begin with, the Norwegians said and arranged for the Exclusive Economic Zone to settle issues with Britain, Denmark and Germany. We should continue our discussions with Egypt and Libya respectively. The agreement we made with Albania was unfortunately annulled by the neighbouring country's Supreme Court, while our country is in consultation with Italy to improve the 1977 agreement. But let us see the Norwegian model a little, ladies and gentlemen, which I think is of great interest and will show us how successful models can come to Greek reality, of course shaped and arranged in Greek peculiarity. First of all, the revenues from the taxation of research and exploitation companies there, in Norway, are directed to the State Pension Funds. At the same time, the bases were developed to create an entire industry controlled by the State, in fact, the State, the "STATOIL" and the Oil Director Institute. Many related port management branches were created, companies conducting seismic surveys with ships, engineering research and development companies and developed there, in Norway, know-how for gas pipelines thanks to their interconnection with Germany and the United Kingdom. Why am I telling you this? Because currently the Norwegian public investment fund that collects revenue from the exploitation of hydrocarbons has the first place among the largest state-owned funds on the planet. It was introduced in 1990 as a pension agency for public workers, but with funds not derived from the Norwegian tax, but exclusively from the revenue generated by Norway from the hydrocarbon deposits in the North Sea. In the first twenty years, however, the Norwegians have simply reinvested their oil revenues - just to tell you - in industry, but also the Norwegian education system around mineral oils. And here, Minister, I take this opportunity to tell you that it might be a good thing for the Ministry of Education to enter a race to build sections - I mean through the Universities - around the oil industry, research, hydrocarbons. A large pie is being opened - so to speak - knowledge, but also goodwill for Greek young people who want to engage in professionally and scientificly, with this object. So while the Norwegians were targeting revenue from their oil to secure their pensions, they were doing more than that. Right now, this Norwegian fund, it has - look out! - EUR 500 billion or EUR 5.11 trillion Norwegian krone and - listen - Norway has five million people! - 1% worldwide of all stock quoted in stock exchanges worldwide. Do we understand that? The Norwegians, with the five million inhabitants, already have a 'hot' money on the side - not only for their pensions but also for the difficult days after oil, when the deposits are exhausted - of EUR 600 billion. So it is divided into five million Norwegians with a theoretical ratio of EUR 123 000 - to say so - 'cava' for each Norwegian citizen. However, this country, Norway, entered the spiritual path because it certainly had fewer dangers and tensions with its neighbours and could determine its AEZ. We here have problems with Turkey, especially after the coup, no one knows how to develop these kinds of plans. We consider that EEZ and strict compliance with environmental legislation are the priorities that the Greek Government must follow by following its own spiritual path on the basis of a long-term energy planning - which we are still waiting for - and we hope that the treasure 'Carbon' will not evolve. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a few points to some articles, since the debate is unified and I see that I have been misled and my time is running out. First I'll tell you something about the energy inspectors and auditors. We're fans of the certification model and exams. Lifelong learning, constantly evolving technology and knowledge, cannot pass by the side of the Greek scientists. We are in favour of the system of examinations, as are inspectors themselves. In Article 36, as the only competent authority, give us a time point, Mr Minister, about when the secondments will be completed. I also asked you in committee - I think I had not received an answer - as well as when the Ministerial Decision on the electronic submission of topographic charts will come out in the database of the ECB SA, that is, the Register. It is Article 40(4). The new quarry plan when will it come? When, at last, in accordance with Article 41 ‘Latitude regulation’, we will have the overall proposal so that investors and workers and those who love and fight for the environment can also know what data on the latitude exploitation in that country? I'm going to skip some articles because I see my time is running out. I would like to refer to some of the amendments. As regards the late amendment by the Ministers for Economic Affairs, Development and Tourism to regulate wages at the Industrial Property Organisation, I would like to remind you that on 16 October 2015 I had tabled a question with a protocol number 324, where I have revealed that workers in the OBI have not yet joined - until then - in the public wage. I am pleased that he responded to the Ministry and even after six, seven months the law is being implemented, overcoming ambiguities in various interpretations. I have one question, however: why are the pay which has been unduly paid to OBI workers from 1-1-2010 to 1-11-2011, that is, for two years, not due? I do not understand why there is this two-year-old - to say it this way - a transitional period. In relation to the other amendments or some of them I will tell you that we have a reservation, but we will expect Mr Spirtzi to come here to justify and support the amendment by a general number of 571 and a specialist of 47. I'm sorry, it's Mrs. Chrysovelonis here. Excuse me. We see it positively, we just need some more information. Eighteen months is the extension period - let's say it - after eighteen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u25	I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u26	Give it to us, Minister. Thank you very much. In addition, for the Ministerial Amendment Nos 538 and 36, which regulates staff issues in artistic schools and vocational education schools, we are positive. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Now, the difficult issue is the TESC - Article 61 - and the amendment with a general number of 543 and a special 38. Here I will wait for the Minister to hear more evidence to tell you what our position is. We simply have fear and hope to be disproved, do not have a repetition of the 'COSCO' series - Dritsa to a different extent and form. We want to know whether or not the upcoming privatisation "swalks on strong legs", if indeed the fixed ones that were integrated, actually led to an investment - "mumuth", but with "mumuth" automatic revenues from the investment, so only investment would not be. In any case, we expect specific clarifications from the Minister. That's all in the first place. I want to tell you that the main thing is to gain our national self-confidence. There have been too many previous years. A lot of billions would come through oil, through gas, would solve the debt problem, solve the problem of what you want, even obesity in Greece. In order to solve any problems, we must fight hard, work permanently and support each other on national issues. That is what I have to say, and I will come back to my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Mr Dimitrios Kammenos is at the meeting of the Group of Independent Greeks, and he was asked whether Mr Megammustakas from the Association of Centres might be preceded by Mr Megalomustakas. Mr. Bigfoot, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. Today we are voting on the framework for the safety of offshore hydrocarbons research and exploitation, a draft law consisting of three parts and many amendments, most of which are irrelevant to the issue and the way we operate. I'm going to stand on these as much as my time allows me. The point is that this bill in the first part speaks of harmonisation with European law. That is the only thing that makes it so important. However, we see that it does not give any significance, because we see that it brings unreasonable amendments, as I have mentioned, which have nothing to do with the Ministry and puts into the bill some issues, some provisions, some laws on which there is a great deal of talk, such as Article 50, which was finally withdrawn, but also the third part of the bill on energy inspectors. Here we see that something's wrong. Hydrocarbons play an important role or actually can play an important role in the development of our country, as taking advantage of all the structures and supplies provided by our country, we can get out of the crisis. We don't do anything about it. We haven't even done the basics yet, we haven't delimited the EOZ yet. We must move the procedures immediately and not waste any more time or money, as has been the case so far. It is only natural that we will be positive. Only then can we see growth in our country, following some rules. However, there are some particularities that our country has as well as every country. I believe that in addition to the framework within which we are voting for harmonisation, we could put some of our own provisions, because it is a very delicate matter. A possible accident would be disastrous, particularly for the environment, but also for our economy. Perhaps the problem would never be corrected. We therefore need to lay down some provisions as I said before and the most important provision, which we should introduce into the bill is the highest fines. I told you about this in the committees - but I did not see you taking it into account - as it is very little the fines laid down in this draft law. One and a half million, which is the highest fine, is very small for such a company, as is very small and for the costs which will have a potential accident. We would also like to make the issue of workers' health more specific and more clear, as we do not see it happening in this context. As well as putting the workers - and above all the workers of Kavala - in the whole decision-making process, as they are the know-how in Greece. In Greece well or badly there are no others who know this as well as they do. Most countries try, except for oil and generally hydrocarbons, to turn to renewable energy sources. Development in these sectors in Greece has a very wide margin of progress. We must not forget solar, wind and other alternative forms of energy. That's the first part of it. I would like to talk a little bit about the second, where a solution to the quarry problems that have been afflicting entrepreneurs so many years. You are strengthening the EDPS and we hope that this will be done positively, not to help your own people but to strengthen the service and that it will work properly to bring about the development that we are all so asking. The land register is being modernised, something that fights bureaucracy and we hope that this will happen at some point in all the Greek public services. In the third part that needs to be changed - you may make some improvements, which do not reach - you are abolishing certification procedures, and we see that twenty-five of the twenty-eight countries in the European Union have introduced compulsory tests. In other words, in the first part we come and are in line with what Europe says, with the European directive and in the third part we are doing our heads and all that on the pretext that there was no participation in the tests. How can there be participation if we keep giving extensions and deferrals? I can't understand it. If we continued the tests and had the right organization, now we'd have much more energy inspectors. They're all certified. We wouldn't have had a shortage, as is happening now. We want all the engineers who are certified to carry out inspections, but they must first be well-trained and do their job properly, without any problem. For example, a political engineer cannot carry out an inspection of air conditioning. I do not think he knows or is well-informed and well-trained about this. I would like to refer to some of the amendments which are irrelevant to the Ministry. Let me turn to the two amendments brought by the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs. In a bill which, as I have said before, relates entirely to issues other than education, two amendments have been tabled and so far there have been many opportunities to submit, for example in the research bill. With regard to the amendment on the funds for substitute teachers, it is worth recalling that we are still waiting for permanent appointments to be made, a position which was announced throughout the past period throughout the year. Of course, we can't leave our schools empty, not even empty. I remind you of last year's recent past where educational hours were not in schools because there were no teachers. However, we can no longer maintain this nomadic regime, the phenomena of education. These solutions are not permanent. They cover supposedly temporary gaps, but in fact they are trying to "close" shortcomings permanently due to the multi-annual deprivation of schools by teachers. With regard to the second amendment by the Ministry of Education, I would like to mention some of my thoughts. In particular, it is surprising how, over time, we have to leave because of retirement and cover a place in a collective body, now we have to legislate in Parliament in the middle of the summer, with a programme that is well-informed. I don't understand why this is happening. The phrase "no replacement" best expresses the fact that when it comes to completing a professional academic multi-year cycle, the follow-up is given and the result can be better. We should think that the decisions of the other members of a collective body may be discredited when the rationale for voluntary residence for proper operation is adopted. We have accepted these amendments and have not yet accepted the amendment for the workers of the EGF which is very sensible. I've talked to you about their requests on the committees. In fact, I tried to work with the other parties, but I did not find any response so that we could table a joint amendment. Eventually he filed the JRC, the Democratic Compact was also tabled. We hope you're willing to accept it. It would be ideal, however, for all parties together to submit a joint amendment so that it has greater power and to show that we can work together for the good of all. Finally, I would like to refer to the gas amendment. Things about this amendment are controversial. Yes, we should not burden households with any burden, nor should our industries. Generally, if we want to have investment in Greece, attract investors, apart from the fact that we should not increase taxation as you do so far, we should lower production costs and, in order to do this, the main factor is energy costs. This must be done, we fully agree, but in order to do this, this amendment should come from the outset, put into public consultation, see what the other side will say. We are ahead of the signing of an agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u29	He's here all along.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u30	He came to an amendment. They weren't the agencies here. The institutions were not invited for this amendment. We'd expect to hear them. We are very afraid that something similar to the 'TRAINOSE' you were saying about a three hundred million sale and you have finally sold it forty-five. We do not want this to happen again. We cannot burden the Greek people, neither the Greek businesses, nor the future businesses or businesses that we hope will come to Greece. However, all this must always be done in the interest of the Greek state. We are a country with rich backgrounds, with rich labour and all these gifts that have been mercifully given to us, we have to take advantage of them. We cannot come to Parliament and legislate manually, without a plan, just to satisfy some of our ideas or something. It seemed very strange to me what Mr Paraparapulos said in Mr Theocharopoulos's speech, who wondered why you do not bring it Thursday, where a bill on justice will be discussed, and you are bringing it today. You didn't even have the slightest planning, so you could bring it two days later. It is this policy that has led us here. The world is worthy of us now. Operations are leaving abroad. Refugee has broken every record, business migration - especially in my prefecture, in Serres - in Bulgaria's neighbouring country. We need to change all this. We must make reforms and not constantly burden the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The last of the special speakers is Mr. Dimitris Kammenos from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there has also been a great debate in the committees on this bill. The personal introduction and the Independent Greeks were the full support of this bill and the incorporation of this directive into Greek law. There was no question of any discussion, because there could or could be reason not to incorporate the directive and to proceed with the Greek State and that Ministry in drawing up the laws and rules on the basis of which there would be safety in the oil extraction processes on the Greek territory. What we have been discussing several times and I have heard it before by many colleagues, I must put it for the Minutes of this House and for the goodness of the position of the Independent Greeks, is the need for training that exists but to communicate properly and to make clear the terms of the national strategy for hydrocarbons, is extremely important. I would remind you here that the previous governments have also tried - and I am not crippling them - with Mr Maniotis who is present and with Mr Samaras when they have also done the reports on the sustainability of hydrocarbons with the twenty-five-year or thirty-year plans in the future and the future revenues that they anticipated. I've made my point there. I do not know whether the Greek authorities or the specific ministry to the European Union have committed themselves, or whether they expect us to have any tax revenue or revenue that will go somewhere else, other than the Generation Fund or a fund as it was in Norway, as the benchmarking or in my opinion - because I have studied it when I was outside - the Alaska Fund. Because there are very important issues there too. To discuss these and long-term solutions and as a strategy, the sustainability and the relationship of the citizens of the insurance funds, in relation to the country's hydrocarbons. The national strategy must lead to transparency and respect for the environment, respect for the safety of the investment itself and of the people working and working in it, as well as the safety of the marine species and of all living, non-organisations and plants which can be directly or indirectly influenced by any such mining. That's what I think we're doing a really good job. We need to see the issue of exploiting the geopolitical consequences, which are directly generated by this national strategy. We see what is happening these days and then Brexit in relation to Europe's economics, oil prices, slate prices that America is going to export but Europe does not want it for very different reasons, the balances and mixtures that are needed in the European Union for energy security, but also the competitiveness of the products and services produced by the European Union, which requires a low cost of energy. When the cost of energy in Greece and other countries is 25% -26% of the product we produce or give to the market, we understand that we are at our base uncompetitive. This is a purpose which the European Union has established in the range of investments in infrastructures which are also of energy, projects of common interest, as they are said, which, over and above the airports, railways and ports are the energy infrastructures that are to do with warehouses, is to do with the LMG. Why is this all happening? Because in the puzzle of the European Union Greece plays a very important role. The war started in Syria. I had written an article as a citizen that the gas pipeline in the Mediterranean from Qatar will be a reason why the war will start in Syria. I had written it on a site that was very friendly at first, then not very friendly, "antinews". And that's how it happened. Geopolitans play a very important role. So, we need synergies with our neighbors. The whole energy arch right now has set up this government with Israel, Cyprus, Greece, along with the TPA pipeline. We were right to inaugurate the TPA pipeline and continue the project, which puts Greece on the geopolitical chess board with five hundred kilometers of pipeline within the Greek territory. Do not now analyse the reasons, but geopolitically and energyly, Europe will have its security through Greece. To think about the energy hub, whether he is on research and production, or R&D on oil or chemical products that should be developed in Greece. You'll forgive me, but today I'm making a little different suggestion. The facts of the bill have been discussed and agreed. Our role and the role of the country and the Ministry of Development together with the Ministry of Development would, in my view, be part of the revenues to go to research and development of specific products and new technologies, because otherwise we would bring back the heads of the polytechnic that is my wife or others who are looking for work or are not looking for or are oil chemistry. Most of them are abroad. In Greece we don't have any jobs. We only have one company, which fortunately works very well in Prino, and we don't have any accident - I beat wood! - or anything else. We have given the plots to Istanbul, Arta, Epirus, Katakolo, Ionian. When these revenues come and these investments come, we need to know not only what we are going to do, in relation to the fund of generations or pensions or future generations, but also whether we are going to build a oil industry in Greece based on research and technology, the development of new technology. Because Greeks are the best, perhaps of the best chemical engineers or oil chemistry we have in the world. I know this from experience. By continuing to say that in the individual elements, as was the issue of competition or quarrying or energy inspectors, we have agreed. I will once again record my noble disagreement with the Minister in the staffing of the HR. I have a different approach to staffing issues. I think we can get the best from the market and get him to sign a confidentiality contract with criminal clauses that if he violates the laws his personal property will be bound by for three generations and his relatives first, second and third grades. These issues have been resolved abroad. We shouldn't be afraid of them. However, by removing the possibility from all of those who take Article 6 to who can go to the board of the hydrocarbon management company, I do not see who could compete and provide services that are reciprocating to the Greek State. I'm putting myself first. No matter how much knowledge I have, I wouldn't want to be there because I don't know the job. Still, we'll see. I believe that our Minister and our Government will do our best so that we can use the purpose of HSY in the best possible way for the Greek state. Of course, we are also very good at bringing the part of the law which also brings revenue to this body. When we manage, I think, at some point as a state not to demonize the one who makes profits and not to call it a speculator, putting him at a corner and shooting him or painting him black, we will manage to put in our minds that at some point the Greek state must be the speculator, making profits, seeing a cost centre - that we in business - a centre that produces something, the warehouse of a company or the sales or cars or distributions, and what I will do best to make profits. From the Cultivation to the problems that have arisen in the Greek economy - we have poorly entered the IMF, we are not discussing this now, we will discuss this tomorrow in the proposal of the New Democracy, from 2009, 2010 in the Memorandums - the public was misbehaved. Because the behaviour of the Greek State was to eat money from the public, to contribute to the public when I am a private small or large company, so that I have a certain income and, of course, to become uncompetitive, because I inflate the basic exit, without any interest in making profits. Profits aren't bad, they're very good. And now we are also going to discuss the question of the amendments in which we agree on everything at first, and we are voting in favour of them. But I would also like to see one of my own thoughts recorded in relation to the amendment to the TECF, which I see perfectly fair, just personally concerns me: I do not know if we have discussed with the counterparty. If we've discussed, the Minister will tell us. If it became a deal, he'll tell us. If it's a one-sided action, he'll tell us. I would like us to find a solution if we are to know what the rules are and why we are talking about today. We will find the solution, but if we have discussed or have not discussed it, it is something very important. I should also like to inform my fellow Members about the ELPEs - I have heard Mr Skreka and will supplement him - it is not just that they lose the money which the ELPEs have as part of. Based on the 400 million-dollar agreement, a large piece of theirs has been blocked and they have issued a loan over 200 million. So, for anyone who doesn't understand, it means that if the ELPE deal breaks, they're looking for 200 tomorrow - which they don't have - why they've got a loan. So we take this into account in an equation for the rest. We certainly have to fall and be competitive. We're not talking about it. These were some old calculations, they should be renewed, but if it is not agreed that disagreements should be recorded, because we might find a way of consensus. If there is no way of finding a consensus, it is the best thing to have the contractor's agreement in writing and say that it does not agree with our positions, and that is why we do not agree, so we go to a break, go to something else. However, if we do not have the opinion of the counterparty that - as it quite rightly says about the regainable difference that we are discussing at the moment - the value of the company falls and we never get the 400 and the next investor who will come, when he comes and gives us less than 400, even 10 or 50 or even 100 less will not be in the interest of the Greek State, then we will probably have to come either in an international arbitration with anyone else or prosecute for infidelity or anything in the Greek State, and we must avoid it or have to increase it to cover the revenue we lose. Economics are too simple. They work in very simple ways. It is not something difficult and we should put them on the table, because the image of the country, together with the targets that we voted on last year for the framework of the 70-75 million practically for the three-year period, has to be reminded of more than 7 billion debts to the State that will be repaid, beyond the 54 billion Memorandum loans of the three-year period, were the IMF 2.5 billion at a minimum paid by the ESM plus 2.5 billion paid by the demilitarisations. Put it all down, because if we miss them, I don't know how we're gonna handle this with abroad. It is nothing simple plus that I believe that the country's image should be protected that it does not take unilateral action if - I repeat - they are unilateral. I would like the Minister to explain whether or not they are unilateral. If it's not, we need to know exactly how to handle this. Also, because we are making reference to the RAE, because it is if you want the body and body which is directly responsible for price policy and whatever study is done, we have not seen the RAE study. If it is easy, in the next few days, to present the corresponding study of the RAE, which, as our bill says in his explanatory statement, argues in favour of this procedure. Technically but also economicly it is very important, because a large part of the intermediate cost of capital, the weighted average cost of capital, is too many ways to calculate it in the mathematics of finances, but you need to find a solution not to agree with the investor. And I conclude that an investor might be bad, he doesn't come here to lose money. On the other hand, as I said before, the Greek state, the Greek State, as an investor who does not want to lose money, will also be a speculator to win the Greek taxpayer. He's not gonna do anything to lose, because then everyone would go to jail for infidelity. We're gonna do something to win. For the profit of one and the profit of the other we will find a component, so that we do not have a day-to-day problem in the second assessment or evaluation of March 2017. Everything that we are discussing from now on about hydrocarbons will have to do directly with mining costs, with Greece's geostrategic and geopolitical role, which is extremely important, especially in these days that we are going through. We should analyse, as I have said, the commitments that the previous government has probably made to Europe, the partners, in relation to the revenue it has predicted and which - I repeat again - as Mr Samaras said, is EUR 150 billion of tax revenue. And here I'm going to do a parentheses. I believe it was Mr Samara's mistake, because it is not tax revenue, it is tax revenue. Because if we have tax revenues of EUR 150 billion in thirty years, that means that I have taxable revenues of EUR 5 billion a year. If we find a company or even a listed company, e.g. "Google", which makes me 5 billion profits a year, we here have to make the "Google" of Greece with the oil of Greece, which will never happen. So it's a taxable matter. It is not 750 billion profits in thirty-five years. It's the tires. So, of all that, I'm waiting for a subpopular one. However, the sub-chapter, because it may have an exchange of correspondence with the institution, should have it to see whether we are committed and what calculations they have done. And make another cost, always compared to the price of oil now and whatever projection we can do. However, if we have committed ourselves to 1,2,3,5 billion for thirty years of revenue to the Greek State, either in the Generation Fund or in another fund, we should be careful and I would not like us to be surprised. In conclusion, I should like to say that we support and vote and I would like to see the notes and criticisms that have been made not by disagreements, but by our concerns, towards a more creative debate in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u33	And do you vote for the D.C.A.?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u34	Are you voting for the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u35	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel the need to address an issue that has been invaded in the debate, but I would like to say that it is very important and since we are given the opportunity, I would like to address it. It concerns the question of Tritsis Park, to which Mrs Kafantaris referred. It is, in fact, embarrassing to see the abandonment of this lung, this space of life for western Athens, as well as for the Lefkanopedi. Of course, we must bear in mind that it is the result of the unsustainable choices that have been made by the previous governments, which have led to debts accumulated, unpaid workers and in fact risk that this whole idea will be cancelled, but also the so important use for the citizens of western Athens, the Tritsis Park. But I didn't just come here to describe the situation. I came to tell you that it is already a specific amendment that will be tabled in the next few days. We just didn't make it through the General Accounting Office to come to this bill. Our government will therefore give a solution to the Tritsis Park, building a new organization, which will have to devise a specific master plan so that the inhabitants of western Athens, of course, also enjoy this space, but also have an economic viability plan. I felt the need to start with it. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] We'll get through to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the harmonisation of the directive - the word itself says - means that we were not dealing with a primary legislation, but we are dealing with a collective legislative process on the part of the European Union, very promoted, that its adoption is exactly to classify the country in that part of the countries that have the most modern legislation on the issue of external hydrocarbons mining. And it is possible, of course, to hear Mr Maniotis think that he wrote it with his hands - he certainly had various flaws in what he gave us, we made some sort of updates - but I think the most important thing of all is that this amendment is moving exactly in the direction of protecting the environment. We have never adopted the logic of major promises, of heavy declarations on the subject of hydrocarbons, but with very low tones all this time we have done our job. Nowadays, the assessment of land plots has been completed within 9.5 months. One and a half years was the time that the previous government took to make the first assessment, while we are working to assess the tenders for the twenty-sea plots. Of course, as we have in the committees, the situation is not favourable. However, we obviously consider it through a concept of balance between the need to protect our shores, our seas, but at the same time to make use of our mineral wealth, that we are moving to achieve the best possible. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the issue of environmental inspectors. I think that before we are placed we should do our utmost to assess the experience that exists so far. Why didn't the system work so far? Why have we finally had such a small number of engineers who were certified environmental verifiers and had participated in the examinations when the needs for any transfer are too great? An energy inspection certificate is necessary for rent. So there was a need based on experience - which is not small - to make the necessary adjustments. And we come today to abandon the logic of prolongation and to establish a system that falls within the very reality of the knowledge gained by engineers, to whom the right to sign studies is recognised, to teach the lesson of energy inspection. Illegally with the former regime, they were not recognised as being able to carry out energy inspections. We therefore opt for a system that exists in other European countries and we think we are going to resolve this issue definitively, expressing the majority of the engineers in the country, taking into account - I repeat - the previous subject of each degree. Through the debate that took place, we also incorporated comments that wanted to be classified at three levels on the subject not only of the number of energy certificates, but also of the criterion of the characteristics of buildings and squares. So I think it is a good choice that will work. I would like to refer to the amendment tabled for the IGM. I have often met with the employees of the EGMM and you know that we are having this debate because there is this government. Because you know that the previous governments have finally put tombstones - there is, of course, a resurrection - to the IGM. You are aware of the difficulties we have at the moment and in what environment we are operating in. However, there is an amendment under way, which enables the recognition of the characteristics of the profession of people working in the FGMD to be carried out in such a way that they can exceed the intended general time for off-site, but at the same time also recognise the possibility for all specialties to be out of place. I mean, a driller must have a driver to carry him where he's going. So these needs are to be met with an amendment which we may be able to table during this sitting. So I think I agree with the logic of the amendment tabled. But I say to you that we are already on this road and if we do not have time to do so in this bill, then in a very next bill of the Ministry of the Environment on renewable energy, which will be tabled in the next few days, this amendment will be incorporated. In the bill you have before you we strengthen the EDPS, the supervisory authority and strengthen it in a very specific way. First of all, for the first time, it is now foreseen that it will have revenue and how this revenue will be collected through the various stages of the investigation procedure. I would also like to say that the public invitation to aid with five employees has already been made, and at the same time we have predicted five participants, so that, once this bill has been passed today, we can cover the need for ten people, which is a minimum number for this company to be staffed. As far as their administration is concerned - and here I would like to address Mr Kammenos - the call for the management of the board is not general and vague, but provides for specific features. We want experience, knowledge of the subject, before work, but under no circumstances can we put people who are currently active in other companies, even if these notorious confidentiality agreements are signed. Before I go to the issue that dealt with us most and rightly, which concerns the DESFA, I would like to make a little reference to the quartz provisions of the bill. We felt it necessary to put these provisions in place, because they are urgent provisions, which should have been resolved a long time ago. But unfortunately it is a bill which has been coming and coming back for ten years, the quarantine bill, whose need to process it is too great. And it's not true what it sounded like it's ready in the ministry drawers. It wasn't ready at all in the Ministry drawers, I assure you. And even now there is a hard scientific debate within the committee on whether the provisions of this bill will be one or another. Our commitment, however, is in this year to present it. And we really should approach the issue of quartz mining on a different basis, recognising that its contribution to the economy is decisive as well as in terms of job formation, but also in relation to the formation of the Gross National Product. Finally, I would like to say this - and I have told the committee twice: we are completely opposed to the troika logic that wants to confer powers on private individuals. Mr Maniotis' proposal to create a register of private environmental inspectors is sincerely creepy. Not all things can be done by individuals, by exercising the control role and the protection of environmental legislation. It would be like putting the wolf on guarding the sheep. I repeat that we have had this debate with the institutions and we have refused it. However, what we are choosing - and we are in this direction - is to strengthen the damaged environment inspection, as you have handed it over to us. So that is what we are interested in if we want to be a modern country, a European country, with environmental legislation that combines development policy with the simultaneous defence of the environment. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of discussion - and, I repeat, it is perfectly understandable - on the subject of the amendment to the TEC. The figures I think are well known and there has not been any serious discussion here, there has been no opposition. We told you that if we let this regulation apply we would have - to tell you more specifically - increases in domestic tariffs of 3% to 4.48%. Increases in commercial tariffs from 3% to 4.7% in the final price not at the end of the year. We would have had increases in industrial tariffs 4,29% to 7,44%. Is the domestic industry able to handle this? Will we allow it to pass this way when the legislation itself through the Energy Regulatory Authority calls on it at regular intervals to review tariffs? So we are not interfering with the terms of the competition, we are not privatising the privatisation process, for which we signed last August, although it was us, we would have done it differently. So I will tell you: we would choose the model of IPTO. We'd keep 51% in public. It is unreasonable that a country's networks should be granted to individuals, natural monopolies. Why is that releasing the market? In no way. There are no competitors either to IPTO or to IPTO, but we inherited this policy, committed us in this policy and implemented it. And we're interfering with what? To something that the law gives us the right, to something that the Regulatory Authority itself urged us to do, by sending a letter and saying that it is forcing domestic industry. This proposal increases the tariffs. Really, what are you defending? Members of the New Democracy, gentlemen of PASOK and all the others who here disagree with this amendment, what are you defending? Whose interests are you expressing here? You do not first realize that after the European Commission's intervention, which bans Azerbaijan's 'SOCAR', precisely because it is a producer of natural gas to hold more than 50% and tells it a minimal 49%, it does something else. He puts it at 49% as a passive shareholder, which means he's not going to have anything to do with management. So what do you think? That this company, whose designs have been overturned by European legislation - for three years now is this privatisation - will come and invest the 2 billion you say? So are we currently undermining the country's development or those who want to blow up the cost of production in Greece, whatever production is left? Besides, I repeat, if you are committed - and you must explain it to us, how - that this privatization will proceed well under these conditions. Go ahead, but where we have the right to change the prices, we'll accept that? We're not going to do anything? Will we cancel the role of the Energy Regulatory Authority? And it's a lie you're saying we're interfering with the fixed assets of the company. We don't do that. We simply remove the 200 million State aid, which had been granted and was not before the competition was opened embedded in the company's assets. Don't you know that, too? You know that. There has been a lot of talk about the way this privatisation has been done. It's not the time. But because I want the House to know everything I know, everything I have been able to understand, I will tell you that I have also been in touch with the Italian 'SNAM'. Different treatment of one another in reality, not only with the amendment, I mean the previous one, the essential reality created following the intervention of the European Commission. Recognises the Italian 'SNAM', which is interested in at least 17%, that the 200 million State aid should not be counted against the company's asset base. And here the question arises, which has already been raised rhetorically: 'But, well, has there ever been a chance that this money will be collected in the future?' If there were no such possibility, what does it matter to us to change this regulation? Why do you always want a regulation to be imposed, which tends to constantly increase prices? So that's why we wanted to change this systemic error, because we said you couldn't give 400 million and get a recoverable difference in 66% of 829, or 547 million. This is called a scandal or a scandal - as you prefer. We are, therefore, legitimately intervening in defending national interests. If you have any objections, tell us and bring us more powerful arguments on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't know some of the numbers. The ELPEs will take the lion's share. In conclusion, ELPE's administration at a meeting with me a month ago said that now - because it is a new administration - we would not contribute to this privatisation. Why should ELPE, a company that operates in oil, refining crude oil, not extend its activities to natural gas too? For what? Today the prospect, the future for PPC, for ELPEs, is to expand their business so that they can resist the new competitive environment. However, it seems that all this for purely opposition is not adopted, although I know that in your party, colleagues of the New Democracy, you do not all have a single opinion on this issue, that there are people who are aware of this amendment. I won't say any more. I'm not going to create any inner-party problem for you. I made a report. Finally, I would like to put forward some legislative improvements. I'm tabling them in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u38	In addition, the amendment under general number 538 and special 36 and the amendment under general number 551 and special 41 are accepted. For some, I know that Mrs Chrysovelloni and Mrs Jackson will speak in a moment. At the same time, the amendment tabled by Mr Papagelopoulos, under a general number of 580 and a special number 51, as well as two parliamentary amendments which have one general number of 547 and a specialist 40, concerning the correction of errors in confiscation against farmers, has been distributed to you - and the other general number of 573 and a specialist 49, which has to do with the regulation of the rental of other quartz spaces in certain areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u39	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Minister. Wait a minute, Mr. Maniot. We will give the floor to three ministers. Mrs Chrysovelonis, Mrs Jack and Mr Pappas will be given the floor in order to put them on amendments, and then Mr Theocharopoulos, the parliamentary representative from the Democratic Independence, will follow. Mr. Maniotis, what do you want to talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u43	Staff? What's personal, Mr. Maniots?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u44	What the Minister said earlier. Can I have the floor, please, to substantiate the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, the Minister obviously in his absolute inability to substantiate his political choices, with screams he said incredible lies and involved my name. Because, therefore, the surrealism of politics, delusionalities and lies are dealt with in one of the two ways, either going down to the same level or substantiating the correspondence with documents, I very much ask you to give me the minutes that the Rules allow me to prove the lies, which the Minister said, referring to my face, and to give me the blame which I am returning to him. I would like to take the necessary time, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Mr President, I don't want more than three minutes. In three minutes I'll be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u47	Look, the Rules of Procedure give you the right to develop the issue, which you consider to be affected and put on staff. Place on staff for two minutes, Mr. Maniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, one hour ago, in an interview at the radio station 'COLKINO', Mr. Skourletis, addressed Mr. Pitsirla, who said that the government has committed itself to sell 17% of PPC and proceed to a Counsellor's selection in September, said that Mr Pitsirlas should sit on his eggs. However, since we all know that Mr Pitsirlas is the choice of Prime Minister Tsipras, obviously Mr Skourletis, addressing Mr Tsipras, tells him to sit on his eggs. I will submit for the minutes the updated programme of actions of the GOI since April 2016, which, on its last page, says that the Greek Government has committed itself within September 2016 to finding a consultant to sell - the GOI and the Government - the remaining 17% of PPC. Secondly, because the Minister also asked who do not want the IPTO model, which ensures the ownership of 51% of the Greek State, I would say that his government does not want to own 51% of IPTO. Because, on 16 June 2016, the Greek Government signed the so-called "Technical Memorandum of Understanding", which it did not submit to the House and which the Memorandum of Greek Government and Troika says on page 26 that in September PPC and IPTO were transferred to the super-statement fund. So what's IPTO with 51% of the Minister talking about? I conclude by saying that I am sorry, but I fear that the Minister lives in another country and not in Greece. Has the Minister ever heard the term "SSR" - National Accreditation System? Has he heard, for example, the body called T^V that he certifies? Has he heard the term'serious auditors', which control the financial statements of undertakings? Has he heard the term "building controllers", which control all urban violations? If he has listened to them, then he will tell us why Article 20 of Law 4024/2011, which explicitly provides for the creation of a register of certified environmental auditors, in order to achieve two objectives: the first objective is to find a body that controls the environment strictly, as required by national and Community regulations and, secondly, where there is no activity today, to give jobs to worthy scientists in our country who under the control of a register, which will control the state, to be able to do the work required.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u49	Come on, Mr. Maniot, let's close, please. Now you've extended it. Make a new placement again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u51	Come on, Minister. You have the floor for three minutes. I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u52	It's not my fault, Mr. President. You gave the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u53	I ask you in a three-minute period to develop your mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u54	First observation: Watch out if you don't break eggs you don't omelet. Secondly, I can't follow Mr Maniotis' surrealist show. But I'm approaching it, and I'm going to try to explain it. How can the government that had voted to privatise IPTO make these comments? How is it possible for the government that had voted for the small PPC and canceled it by the people and the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, to have so much political courage here and tell us what it says? On the substance, however, I am interested in: Do you really insist on 17% of what you have been through on your days at the TIAD? What is the point - to speak a little seriously - of wanting to privatise in a more liberalised market an additional percentage of the public company? None. It made sense, when decades ago PPC's privatisation was what - for those who believed it - would pave the way for market liberalisation. Today that we have so many competing private electricity producers, today that there is an agreement, which provides for a step-by-step opening up of the market, now that there are NOMEs, which are auctions, what is the point of insisting on further privatisation in PPC? These are the essentials on which one needs to be placed, so that people understand how you are clinging to a obsolete neoliberal model - not even new - that you are an old-fashioned type of '85' and then, when you collaborated on the substance programming with New Democracy and when the only thing that changed was the green or blue colour of power, you jointly did all these crimes that are afflicting Greek society today. We will be able to raise this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u55	Mrs Chryssovelloni has the floor. Madam Minister, obviously, you want to take up the amendment. Here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Access for immediate and secure movement between the road corridors of the country is an elementary manifestation of personal freedom, guaranteed by the Constitution in force, namely Article 5(4), according to which any Greek has the right to freedom of movement or establishment in the country. There are, however, today residential, tourist and industrial areas, which, while adjacent to the main roads of the primary or secondary national network, for formal and bureaucratic reasons, are at risk of being unable to serve, as the approval of the necessary studies is delayed to characterise the existing construction roads as the main traffic to be included in the regional or main network of the region is being delayed. If, therefore, the proposed amendment is not passed, the inhabitants of these regions will be obliged to take part in the full integration, approval and licensing of the relevant studies and projects and will be obliged to run on a multi-kilometre route on degraded geometric and traffic routes, resulting in significant loss of time and money due to fuel and particularly at risk of accidents. The vote on this amendment therefore becomes necessary in order to serve the public interest, by maintaining, on a temporary basis, existing temporary construction blocks of access to national roads for eighteen months in order to make it possible to complete and approve the corresponding studies - this is also an answer to Mr Amyras' question - since of course certain conditions are still in place, which are currently in place. In particular, access sectors, which have been in operation for the last five years, comply in principle with road safety rules, have the appropriate vertical and horizontal marking, have been previously approved by the police department concerned in accordance with Article 52 of the Road Traffic Code, for better traffic adjustment, but have also been tested in real traffic conditions beyond five years, without having been subjected to traffic accidents. Therefore, that provision restores equal rights and treatment to a large proportion of citizens, in the context of public interest service, on parallel road safety conditions, as it concerns pre-authorised and existing access in accordance with the provisions of the IPP/EDC/502/1-7-2003 published in the FEK, Volume B' 946/9-7-2003, concerning the technical specifications for labelling and traffic management in areas of project execution. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, I would like to point out that this provision does not in any way affect the state budget, as is also the case with toll stations, so that it can be regarded as having the slightest risk of losing revenue from the Greek State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u57	Mrs Chryssovelloni, is there any reference to the amendment with a general number of 572 with a special number of 48?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u58	This amendment is number 572/48.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u59	All right, I just wanted to repeat it, to record it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u61	What do you want, Mr. Maniot?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, please give me the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u63	Excuse me, but there's no personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u64	I just want the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u65	I'm so sorry, Mr. Maniots!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, listen to me for a minute and if you think I'm not right, don't give it to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Maniotis, you are the rapporteur for the Democratic Association. You have a right...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u68	I just want the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u69	No, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u70	If you consider that I am not right, do not give me the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u71	Sit down. You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u72	But, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u73	Sit down. You don't have the floor, and if you want to hear me, it's got good!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u74	Four times...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u75	You want to hear me? Well, nothing is recorded, Mr. Maniatis. Mrs. Jackie has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u76	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u77	Mrs. Jackrey, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am referring to the amendment under number 576 and a specialist of 50, which refers to the rationalisation and improvement of the overall activity of the Industrial Property Organisation. The proposed amendment explicitly falls under the 2010 Acts the Industrial Property Agency with regard to the provisions on the single wage, and I am referring to Laws Nos3833, Nos3845 and No3899 of this year. In fact, the additional earnings of staff have been searched as unjustified since 2011, namely, under the provisions of the laws I have already mentioned and regulated, and the way in which they are returned by workers as follows: with the retention of 10% of the monthly wages paid. Unpaid payments have been sought since 2011, as Law 4024/2011 has now made it expressly stated that private-law legal persons in the public sector and their employees are now explicitly and unequivocally subject to the single wage. First of all, I should like to say that the Industrial Property Organisation is a legal entity of a non-profit-making nature with a surplus budget and in no way is it regularly granted by the State budget. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Jackie. Mr. Pappas has the floor. Here, Mr Pappa, you have the floor for the amendment you wish to support.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. It is Amendment No 540 and it concerns the transfer by three months, from 1-10-2016, of the procedure for the direct invoicing of the media advertised and the present draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment we have had a legislative intervention to consult about the allocation of advertising time, and we very soon hope that this intervention will come to Parliament as well. This is a law that will exalt the advertising market which, as you all know, has too many opaque areas. It is a necessary complement to the licensing process in which we are going within the timetables at this time and ensure that licensed stations and, of course, ERT, legally operating channels, sell on an electronic platform their advertising time so as to ensure full transparency in the relations between advertisers, advertising companies and the media. It is obvious that there will be no State intervention in price formation at all. We are already in consultation with the stakeholders, and I think the result will be something that will help improve the financial data of the new licensed stations as well. It may be that many of you understand what I mean. Of course, there is one issue with the smaller media, which do not have the possibility of having access to large advertisers, and if we were now moving on to direct implementation, as envisaged, we might have had a problem. Let me speak for thirty seconds. It is very common when the state comes to regulate a market and a number of business interests are affected, the way in which entrepreneurs think absolutely and simply conclude that the moves are made to favour their competitors. Unfortunately, this is a personal conclusion that tends my own mind to become firm. I hear over the last few days that through the competition the government wants to rule out the alpha or beta channel. No falseer! And I call on everyone not to play with the fate of the workers. We had the opportunity before, during the vote on the bill and the efforts we made to bring about the establishment of the National Broadcasting Council to discuss this. However, I have to say to both the workers and the Greek people that the pre-selection procedure for the competition has now been completed. It is an absolutely objective process and the only one - the only one - standing between a television station currently operating and a legal licence is the owner's wallet and nothing else. So the owner's attitude to pay the price to the contest that will give him permission. The Government has absolutely no opportunity to intervene in the proceedings. The competition is objective, crystal and I think it will be a model for other competitive procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u81	You know those who have taken the list that seven Members have been written as speakers. Mr Theocharopoulos has already asked for the floor. There were complaints from Members of Parliament, and they said that a number should be preceded. I would therefore suggest that three Members should speak, and then Mr Theoharopoulos, one who has asked for it, because there is an urgent need for a matter and then any parliamentary representatives who have declared themselves to follow. Do you agree, Mr. Theocharopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u82	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u83	I do not think there will be a problem from the other parliamentary representatives. So let's start with the first speaker, Ms. Iglezi, from SYRIZA. Mrs. Igleze, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a draft law that is important because it establishes the framework for minimizing serious accidents relating to offshore hydrocarbons and their consequences. The aim is not only to exploit the country's mineral wealth but also to protect the marine environment and coastal areas, as well as to prevent the deterioration of societies and economies by possible pollution. As I pointed out in my position in the Committee on Production and Trade, it is extremely important to incorporate the provision for the precautionary principle, as stated in the English version of the directive. According to the European Commission, the precautionary principle may be invoked where a phenomenon, product or process may have dangerous effects, identified by a scientific and objective assessment, if such assessment does not allow sufficient certainty to be determined. Therefore, recourse to the precautionary principle falls within the general framework of the risk analysis, which includes, in addition to its assessment, its management and notification. In particular, it forms part of risk management corresponding to the decision-making stage. I therefore consider it very important that the precautionary principle should also be written in the draft law and not only in the explanatory statement, when it is admitted by everyone that this directive and others worldwide came out after the sad accident in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010 on the BP platform, with the consequences for people and the environment that we all know and do not want to address. It is our firm position that the energy design and exploitation of mineral wealth should pass through those social processes that will allow for the co-formulation of policy and prospects for the country. It is important to have these forecasts, which will ensure effective participation, and indeed in matters of environmental protection and social survival. Democrat energy planning remains a matter for us, but I believe it is important that the public should be involved, both in examining the possible consequences of offshore work and in the environmental licensing process of installations with the provisions of Article 5. I consider it important from the arrangements of this draft to introduce into the licensing procedure for the right to research and produce hydrocarbons the assessment of the applicant’s ability to prevent and deal with major accidents and to cover the liability arising from them, as referred to in Article 4. Indeed, these are crucial for its authorisation. Two distinct principles are still in place: the licensing authority and the competent authority. It is important that the competent authority on the issue of offshore work safety is an independent authority, which is not related to the licensing and authorisation of the right of research and production, nor to the economic development of offshore natural resources and the management of revenue from hydrocarbons research and production activities. In the offshore oil exploration and exploitation process, I believe that the important independent confirmation of compliance with safety and environmental critical elements is being established. This mechanism should in fact be installed before the installation plan is completed and before work in offshore waters is started. There are still provisions on cross-border readiness and emergency response, which is very important, considering that neighbouring countries are being activated in the mining sector. This may have adverse consequences for our country, as cross-border preparedness is necessary to deal with possible accidents and to avoid environmental degradation. This draft law, however, also contains provisions relating to latitude legislation. I would like to point out here that it must be completed, as the Minister said, immediately the quarry design and the definition of the quarry areas. We should not perpetuate the policy of extending deadlines, but try to achieve a clear and long-term planning. This would be crucial both in support of this productive sector and in its development. I also consider it important to discuss the quarry law in a uniform way and not by fragmentary arrangements, even if they are in the right direction. This is because then it will be clear to all measures to restore environmental damage and to improve the environment in areas with intense latitude. I would particularly like to mention - and because of my scientific position - the provision for the replacement of the reafforestation obligation of an area equal to that of the quarry with the obligation to pay for the use which is set at 100% of the value of the forest area of intervention. I think this provision is right, ladies and gentlemen, because, as I often say, the forest is no longer a chance to cut it off from one region and plant it in another. We've noticed a lot of problematic reafforestations, tree plantations, I'd say. They came up because of the forced reforestation obligation. It should, however, be ensured that the money provided for in the Forests Agency is allocated to the financing of essential projects to protect, upgrade and exploit forest ecosystems. The obligation to restore inactive quarries, which have not yet been restored, could also be foreseen. Finally, I would like to refer to the arrangements for environmental inspection, which are very essential to carry out the work of environmental inspectors without undue delay and without precarious consideration. It is clear to all of us that the role of the public in controlling environmental infringements is irreplaceable. Therefore, the forecasts that strengthen this scope are in the context of the DSO’s contractual obligations. A few words about the amendment to the TEC. First of all, the determination of new use prices for the natural gas network is very important. In this amendment, 200 million State aid is deducted from the recoverable difference, the development of the remaining millions in forty years is shared, so that it does not charge prices, and the interest rate of recovery is projected to be revised. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need one more minute, Mr President. This is a proposal aimed at streamlining the situation. It is understandable that the government has recently served a multidimensional energy policy aimed at ensuring sustainability conditions both for domestic industrial production and domestic consumers who have turned to natural gas, but also for the IPCC and the IPCC. I would like to say a few words about the IGM. I think, Minister, that it would be very important for us to be able to have the amendment today, because really IGM is an agency, an agency that has offered a serious project, and there is a risk that, because they cannot have several days' work outside of the building, IGM is going to lose, which you are well aware of. I hope that this issue will soon be resolved and resolved in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u85	Mr Georgiadis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, I find it hard to hold onto Mrs Iglezis. After giving us these lessons about your government, which goes to fix what the previous ones broke down. I should like to refer to the Skouries where you were two emblematic persons who went to ruin privatization and who fortunately both backed up and continued the investment there. That's very good. I have not yet heard a reason for self-criticising that last September you almost blew people's jobs. But I'm passing it so we don't ruin our hearts. I am actually going to the point, because the subject of the amendment and of the European directive is, I think, exhausted. Minister, we are not going to have a technical debate if what you are doing with the 200 million is accounting or is not, because there is obviously a lot to be said in the technical debate. I'm going to stick to what you've said. You said you preferred an IPTO-type model. I would therefore like you, Minister, to tell us sincerely and without civilisations: do you want to spoil privatisation? Don't do that, because you said from the Step of the House that the company was aware. As you know very well, the company wasn't aware, and that's what the company says to anyone who meets. Secondly, please tell us what this is all about. I read the reports. Don't move your head, it's all been written in the papers, Mr. Poppa. It was also written in the newspapers that a letter has been sent to Mr. Tsipras by the company. Is it true, Mr. Skourletis, that a letter has been sent to Mr. Tsipras? What does that letter say if it has actually been sent? If you can submit it to us in the Minutes, we can read it. If it has not been sent to disprove, please, that it has been sent so that they do not move in the various newspaper reports on the subject. Thirdly, you said from the Step of the House that you are interested in increasing 3% to 4% in the household invoice, in one cubic year. We are talking about 1.5 euros a year to the consumer. Obviously, you don't say that. Then you said that this is about the industry, which is of particular interest to her. The argument is accepted. You're not telling me, what do you think is more interested in industry? Is this an amendment that you have brought or the increase in taxes on fuel that you have put in, as a government, cost them more than 400 million more? Obviously, you are not interested in the industry, because if you were interested in the industry, you would not increase their taxes by 400 million. So this is where your argument goes. I shall therefore repeat, Minister, this. It is a different thing to tell us: 'I want to make a better deal, because I consider the previous bad deal to be a bad deal', and there to discuss all parties constructively what can be better and it is very different to move unilaterally, just to implement what you said from the Step, namely 'I believe in the IPTO model'. If that is what you think, you have to tell the House, you have to say that your aim is to ruin privatization, because you want to go to the model of IPTO and there to place the parties, but not to mock each other. Also, Minister, as far as I understand it, you disagree with 17%, the excess of PPC, which Mr Pitsorlas said today is progressing normally. You said it was wrong. You mentioned it specifically as a neoliberal model of the past. If you don't believe these, are you going to ask the troika to change the deal? Because these are prerequisites for the first dose. Is it therefore the Government's intention to open up a question with the troika - I repeat and ask - which will have to do with the completion of the first instalment and the payment of the next EUR 2.5 billion, Mr Skourletis and Mr Pappas, obviously, why you, too, as Minister of Government and the Prime Minister's right hand? Because Mr. Skourletis told us here that he disagrees with Mr. Pitsirla and with the additional 17% of PPC, but that is in the technical memorandum with the Troika on the first evaluation. If that is indeed the will of the Government, it is important for the Greek people to know now that we are going for a new adventure with the troika and for a new blockage in the first assessment before the second one begins. If that's not the case, and you intend to honor the technical memorandum with the troika, then why do you say it and why are you fighting on the radio? The words 'Mr Pitsirlas sit on his eggs'... Mr. Skourletis, listen, once your insides at SYRIZA have to solve them between you two. If you don't like Mr. Pittsorla and since you're sitting here all this time with Mr. Poppa - and Mr. Tsipras sees him, I imagine - tell him that Pitsirlas must come out. Getting out on the radio and in particular "TO KOCKINO" and calling Pitsirla and then getting out of Pitsorlas and answering you from "TO KOCKINO" or another radio and saying "no, I'm the good guy and the other one is the bad guy" you understand that it creates a problem. The main thing is not your personalities. How interested we are. What is the problem with the DESCRIP and whether or not you have informed 'SOCAR' and with the issue of Pitsorla and 17% and all the others we have said? The problem is that you create to all potential investors the feeling that if they come to Greece, they will have no one to agree. How, at the same time, does the Prime Minister, Mr Pappas, give such great battle to attract investment in Greece and, at the same time, let Skourletis and Pitsirla fight publicly on radios, that is, those responsible for bringing investments to Greece? You realize something's wrong. Mr. Pappa, I'm glad you're staying. You said a very good reason for media workers. Mr. Poppa, I must admit that I have raised from your sensitivity to the workers. I think it's authentic. Should you tell us a little if this statement that I read today in all the media that you said yesterday that you are about happy to close the MEGA? I don't know how you said it exactly, but it's a chance now to say it, because I read it on almost all the websites and blogs. Because, you know, at the same time, you're sorry about the workers and you're saying something like that, if you've said it, you realize something's wrong. So let's at least clarify it, let's know if you've made a kind of joy like that. In conclusion, I should like to refer to a subject of topical and urgent importance. I regret that Mrs Jackson, Mr President, and Mrs Chrysovelloni have left, but that's all right, we have two top ministers who can be placed. I have not heard a comment from a government official about this gross attack by Mr Kammenos on Mrs Fofi Gennimata. Mr. Pappa, have you honestly changed your authority? Your co-pilot, for whom Mr Skourletis was previously applauded and for the SYRIZA-ANEL co-government, attacked a woman who went through the adventure of cancer for political reasons. Didn't a SYRIZA MEP find you talking about human rights, and you have organisations and you yelling at the slightest, and you're overly sensitive, say anything about this attack on a woman? Yeah, we're political opponents. So what? Because we're political opponents, do we have to be here? Because we're political opponents, do we have to wish the other one would die? Because we're political opponents, should we be mocking against each other? Does the government have any comment on this, Mr. Poppa? Or in front of holding the chair to be sad about the workers, don't you mind if Mr. Burn said more than usual? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Fotella has the floor from the river...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u90	Oh, I didn't see the Minister. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Georgiadis, it is clear that here you are the highest-ranking official of the New Democracy. They are the parliamentary representatives and you are Vice-President of the party. I imagine that the preaching you have now given us on characterizations would have it in mind when you called me "fascist" on a radio show. Do you insist on that statement?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u92	I'll answer right later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u93	Yes, sir. It's very interesting and we keep it for later. I think we're judged by the pan-Hellenic. I wish you continued your pleasant correspondence with Mr Pattaco and remember these and take public frequencies back to launch such charges.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u95	Now for the workers, I would ask for hypocrisy to be stopped. But I will not, because I am not optimistic at all. That's what you're counting. Because when the government has brought the regulation into line with the minimum number of people employed in the new licensed channels, we have suffered severe criticism, in conjunction with the ownership of the channels, that we are violating the administrative right. Now I inform you that contracts are being set up on a pan-Hellenic channel where blocks exist. This is a first positive development. Well, sit down and watch. Rescind the statements, which appear to be unresponsive to the reality, that the Minister wants to cut off the "SKAI" that you come out of every day and devour us. No problem. Recall them, however, because reality disguises you and good luck and keeps on with your extreme characterizations and social relationships with coupers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, I would also like to speak on personal grounds, because that is the definition of the personal issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u98	Wait a minute, Mr. Georgiadis. I'd like your patience a little. Have a seat, please. Mrs Iglezis has asked for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u99	Yes, Mr. President, but Mr. Pappas will not leave. She can't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u100	You want to answer the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u101	But he wants the Minister to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u102	Mrs Inglezi has asked for the floor on staff for something you referred to in your speech. So we will hear Mrs Inglezi and then answer both issues together. Mrs Iglezis, you will explain, however, first of all, what the personal issue is, because the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Georgiadis referred to my face and made a...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u104	I'm sorry, I didn't give you the floor. The 'Personal' has made it a tire. Anyone who refers to a position of any speaker - I mean, making a political comment - is immediately affected and put it on staff. The Rules of Procedure therefore - I am reading Rule 68 to hear it - say about staff: 'Personal matter is considered to be the reproach that contains an abusive manifestation...' - keep this - 'individually against the MP or member of the government, as well as the performance to a speaker of a different opinion than the one he expressed'. Therefore, which, under the Rules of Procedure, do you invoke? You'll tell me first which of you you're invoking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u105	I invoke the second, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u106	I mean, Mr. Georgiadis distorted something you said. Here, then, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Georgiadis has drawn a conclusion himself. So I'll tell Mr. Georgiadis that I won't do the gift to his favorite company and go back to Skouria. Mr. Georgiades, be sure of that. So when you want to defend the investments, you do well not to use this company. It is not an example, but rather an example of investment, because it does not protect either the public interest or the local economy. A lot more, it doesn't protect the environment and it destroys it. You probably don't follow developments, Mr. Georgiadis, or you probably want to hide these developments, as does the company. If you know about twenty days ago, the Ministry of the Environment sent back the study of "ELLENIKIKI CRYS S.A." for metallurgy using the "flash smelting", because there are too many omissions and too many inaccuracies. So let's wait to see if your favourite company will respond to these comments from the Ministry, which are very serious, because on this "flash smelting", as you know very well why you are dealing with the subject, it is based on the entire contract concerning "ELLINIKIKI CRYSOS S.A." So when you draw conclusions, do not arbitraryly draw them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u108	Here, Mr Georgiadis, you have the floor for two minutes because they expect other Members to speak, as are the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u109	First of all, I don't have a favorite company. You know, I think that foreign investments should come to the place to reduce unemployment and to manage to increase our Gross National Product. So I have no favorite or unloved company. I want investments to come. With regard to all the rest of the information Mrs Inglezis has said, I do not want to reply. They burned the Squirrels every day to stop the mining of the gold from the “ELLENIC CRYSOS S.A.”. Mining continues and the investment will proceed. It's good. That's positive. Let's just say an apology for what they've done. They beat Halkidiki, put Ierissos in the bars just to continue the investment. Let me now refer to the subject. Unfortunately, Mr. Pappas is gone, Mr. President. That's why I wanted to talk at that time, because I knew he was leaving. Mr. Poppas once again has become obscene. It appears online - and I have no reason to hide it - a dedication of the Patakus to me. I haven't seen her, but let's say she's gone. What's this about me? So if I write a dedication to Mr. Skourlet and take it to him with my book over there, they'll say that I have something to do with Mr. Skourletis? If I had a dedication, it would count, not if someone else had done it to me. So Mr. Poppas vulgarizes with rheumatism and rubbish of the internet. He also did so in an official announcement from the Government and his Ministry. And of course, now he's getting up and leaving. As far as the designation is concerned, the 'fascist' I called him was a political designation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u110	Please...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u111	That's what he was missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u112	Even though he mocked at me with lies on the internet and got up and left, I won't do the same. So I'll say that I made a political description and I'm judged for him. You don't agree, the other one agrees. In relation to the reasoning of the closing of television channels was the designation. I, Mr Skourletis, told you to address the issue of Mr Kammenos's tweet and the personal issue to Mrs Gennamas. Unless you think that passing a woman such a disease is a political matter and you should bring it to the House! On this, Mr Pappas - I beg your pardon, if you have anything to say, we would be glad to hear it from the government - he had nothing to answer at all. Mr. Famellos here, who's raging at nothing, has fallen his head and doesn't talk, because how to talk about his partner in the government doing such vulgarities!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u113	I'll speak, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u114	Mr Georgiadis, do not refer to names because we are going to start a new 'on staff' cycle again and we will not be finished. Please. Finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u115	I'll talk about the pricks of politics when the time comes!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u116	So, Mr Skourletis, you finally have the opportunity as a government, supposedly, of human rights, to put you on it. Because if you don't, Mr. Skourletis, it goes on to say that you adopt it. Then don't tell us about dullness in politics, because you will have adopted supreme vulgarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u118	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, I cannot answer that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u120	Minister, all right! You have the floor, but strictly for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u121	I won't do you the favor. Although you like this game, I've seen you bloom, smile all over now, it's your time right now...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u122	And you smile.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u123	I draw the smile from your lips. I would like to say to you that from this kind - and keep this - the controversy it calls for 'personal dialogue', 'publishes', I have suffered the consequences. I have suffered the consequences of a MEGA channel with the same subject. Do you know what the matter was then? We were talking about drug shortages - you were, too, I think at the time - and I mentioned cancer patients who had no medicine because of your policy. The next item was the 'approved' site of the people who always plead for you, saying, because Mrs. Gennamas was sitting there, that I do not take into account and don't talk to Mrs. Gennamas about cancer. If, then, you want to get into this confrontation, I think it is not good, and we must keep the debate in a political controversy, with arguments. Let's not put any more dimensions. It doesn't help you or us either.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u124	You're telling me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u125	I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u126	But Mr. Kammenos said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u127	So if you have anything with Mr. Kammenos, tell him. So are you saying that it is right now to have such a conversation between us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u128	I'm sorry, aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u129	There he is! There he is!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u130	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u131	Aren't you ashamed to keep playing this game?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u132	It's awesome! This man does it every time. We held four meetings of the committees and flew in the same way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u133	Is that the left position? You're not ashamed to defend...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u134	Please, Mr. Maniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u135	But he is described by this behavior, by him and by his resignation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u136	Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u137	He'll tell us, "You're not ashamed of yourself?"!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u138	Minister, are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u139	Aren't you going to ask for an apology? But aren't you ashamed? We defended you when the Golden Dawn...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u140	Minister, are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u141	All right, all right! I'm not gonna do the favor of working...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u142	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u143	Enough! Your time's up. Enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Fotillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute because a matter has been raised. You understand that Parliamentary spokesman also raises a matter at the moment...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Theocharopoulos, I have no intention of depriving you of your word. After Mr. Fotella anyway, it's your turn to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u147	I want to talk about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u148	You can at that moment say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u149	You realize it's for a minute...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u150	If you insist, I cannot give you the floor. I'll give you the floor. I'm just making a suggestion. Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u151	Minister, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks made an unacceptable, immoral attack, exceeded the limits of vulgarity and of himself, to speak clearly, without any misinterpretation. This was a common acceptance by people of all political spaces, except the government and SYRIZA, where there is no placement. So today you have been provoked to give an answer a little while ago, and without our own intervention. However, you had nothing to say while you were on this subject. I think, in my opinion, that first - first - the Minister himself, if he felt his mistake and did not see politics as a Roman arena, he would have to apologise at once. He didn't do it. But, okay, Mr. Kammenos is a professional hybrid. You to the government and SYRIZA, don't you have anything to say on this matter and condemn such expressions? I would ask you even now - because it does not honour the political system to discuss this, nor should I say again what Mr Kammenos said - to say that you are also condemning what he has said. Otherwise, as this is the case, you seem to be adopting them at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u153	Minister, now I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u154	It can't be, Mr. President. We can't play like this!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u155	Is that how we're gonna move on now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u156	So I tell you that I do not even know Mr Kammenos's statement. I said, not in the knowledge and wanting to comment on Mr Georgiadis, because on the basis of this statement, which we do not all know, it makes such a controversy. You have now taken the thread from Mr. Georgiadis and continue. All right, if you want to have a conversation like this here, we can do it. But it characterizes you. What can I tell you from there?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u157	Are we characterized by Mr Kammenos's statements?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u158	Here, Mr. Lightla, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. We're a nice atmosphere! However, the truth is that I am surprised that you have been surprised, Mr. Theocharopoulos, by Mr. Kammenos. I didn't expect anything better than Mr. Kammenos. It didn't surprise me. It's the usual practice. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the security of offshore hydrocarbons, we are well aware that dealing with the environmental impact in advance is far more effective than the ex-post resolution of the problems they cause. The draft law comes to contribute precisely to this, namely the adoption of a responsible environmental attitude that will contribute positively to the sustainable development of the country's natural wealth and the image of the hydrocarbons industry. At the same time, the protection of the marine environment is achieved, because the necessary mechanisms are created to carry out effective control and surveillance of all activities. The Region of Western Greece is currently one of the regions which will also proceed in offshore mining, in Katakolo and in the West Patraikos, as well as in investigations into the extraction of terrestrial hydrocarbons in Itoloakarna, in the north and west Peloponnese. This has had the recent positive opinion of the Regional Council and therefore creates new development and economic data for the whole region. At the same time, however, we must safeguard the environment and the tourist advantages of the region and avoid any tourist degradation. After all, we must not forget that Catalo is located within the Kyprian Gulf, a region belonging to the Natura 2000 network and any accident could be fatal for the development, tourism and the wider region. After all, you know well that in Greece we have never had a problem introducing laws. We have never had a problem creating an institutional framework for the protection of citizens, flora and fauna. The problem has always been the implementation and strict implementation of this legislation. To that end, we are very much stricter in the framework. However, what is most important today is what we will be voting on tomorrow. One more thing about the extraction of hydrocarbons. You should see the issue of regional tax, Minister, which must be shaped, according to the compensatory benefits that local communities must have from the possible exploitation of the deposits. In this way, the West Greek Region, for which you know it has high levels of unemployment and poorness, can really change its economic path. At the same time and with the completion of roads - and not just - networks, it can be an investment resource for further development. At this point, I would like to make some points to you. For example: The climate summit in Paris sets targets which, in order to achieve this, require an investment of EUR 12.1 trillion over the next twenty-five years. 'Shell' abandoned its plans for mining in Antarctica. Obama cancelled the construction of a pipeline called "Keystone". France shall reject any request to extract hydrocarbons on its territory. Spain establishes a Mediterranean Special Protection Area to an area of more than half the Aegean. In conclusion, Greece has not established any such zone. Finally, Germany prohibits new buildings from having central heating with oil. So what do these facts show us? What do the above facts talk about? Anyone who monitors and perceives the great tendencies of our time will easily find that hydrocarbons are now in the past. The project of our time is now that of tackling climate change. Its main consequence is the need to turn to energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. We must start investing in the future and in technologies, ladies and gentlemen, and not simply sticking to a obsolete scorching. We must have a new energy policy ready. Western Greece in terms of water resources is rich and will be forever. Oil will be for a few decades. I conclude, Minister, with this: we are soon to see your policy on Renewable Energy. This is also the direction in which all the world's advanced societies and economies turn. And since - badly lies - you have evolved into the most persuasive students of the partners, it will be good - slowly to harmonize yourself with their energy policies as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr. Firela. Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Theocharopoulos, has the floor. The three speakers will then be followed by the list. Here, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are here today to discuss a bill relating to the country's energy future. Apart from the incorporation of the European directive, which lays down the legal framework for safety in offshore hydrocarbons research and exploitation, the draft law contains arrangements for energy issues and other matters of responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment. Once again, amendments are included and tabled, they are withdrawn, rescinded, and arrangements are made for a number of issues, even unrelated to the subject of the bill, are to be voted on. Obviously, we could not disagree with the incorporation of this directive. This is a directive which will contribute actively to the definition of the conditions for offshore exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons deposits, as well as the reduction of serious accidents related to offshore oil and gas operations, the reduction of their consequences and the improvement of reaction mechanisms in the event of an accident. A characteristic example is the sad accident that occurred in 2010 in the Gulf of Mexico following an explosion in an oil-mining platform. It was a tragic accident with human victims, causing major ecological disasters. It was also the occasion for a review of Community policies to safeguard the safety of these work. However, we are called upon to proceed with its ratification with great and unjustified delay. What was the reason for this delay, we did not hear. Is it possible to delay the incorporation of the directive on the safety of hydrocarbons into mining activities when in our country there are already installations in the outdated gas deposit in southern Kavala and in the oil exploration in Prinos, and there are also prospects for using deposits in other parts of the country? Can Greece once again be left to the margins of Community legislation with the risk of being referred to the European Court of Justice? Ladies and gentlemen, the country's energy future is an extremely important aspect for its development process and in this context there are no delays. What do you do about it? Apart from offshore hydrocarbon production, an important factor in the economic development and energy supply of our country is land. Please explain to us the reasons for the delay in the selection of the contractors for land that has been opened, and why the tender procedure of the maritime plots in Ionian and south of Crete is delaying. We have told you many times that the issue is not the adoption of laws, but their immediate implementation and, obviously, their integration into a comprehensive and coherent design. Community directives such as the one we are discussing today or other energy regulations make no sense if they are not integral parts of the energy process and policy and if they are not accompanied by the development of appropriate investment tools. We don't miss the laws. We lack not only their implementation, but an overall framework that can be implemented and proceed with the whole process. In this context, of course, it is extremely important to take account of recent developments. I am referring to both Greek-Turkish developments, Turkey and, of course, to their impact on our country and Brexit. We would also like your assessment if you believe - and how - that developments in Turkey and the geopolitical imbalance in the wider region will affect our national interests in the field of energy. And to say on the issue of Turkey, we have said that the existing, major democratic deficits in Turkey have been solved by more democracy than by the democracies, which have been attempting. We were and are therefore opposed to the devastation of democracy. Of course, at the present time, we do not see the process running in Turkey as a strengthening of democracy, but as a fundamental increase in the deficits of democracy. And that is something we must stress and of course also strengthen our attention at all levels. With regard to Brexit, do you think it will have an impact on the energy sector and on the European Union and on our country? There are concerns about the environment that can gradually be established for energy companies or for relations with Russia or the consequences that may exist in the area of Renewable Energy and Climate Change. All this needs to be properly and in good time to take the necessary steps to avoid any negative consequences and to determine the next steps for our country. In the second part of the bill on mineral wealth, I would like to stress that our country has a mineral wealth. However, there is a need for a comprehensive planning for the use and management of it. In Article 41, for example, introduce some regulations on lato-law legislation. Apart from these regulations, no fragmentation is required, but the definition of a comprehensive legislative framework and the identification of quartz areas throughout Greece. With regard to the new extension, as provided for in Article 38, in the process of utilizing the depleted southern Kavala, how much longer is it necessary to prepare the studies for its conversion into an underground gas warehouse? This is an issue that should have been closed already. Before going to the amendments tabled, I will comment on what you said, Minister. You referred at some point to the certified environmental inspectors and accused the Democratic Incorporation for neoliberalism, because it suggests that the private sector can also operate in this area. Of course, the rapporteur for the Democratic Independence has given you a detailed account of these issues. However, from where and by where and when we ask for the private certificate to function, anywhere, in any sector, with the control and with the rules of the State in this process, this is an unregulated procedure? It is the opposite, as is the case - and very rightly analysed - in other cases. You also blamed for old-fashioned behaviours of the Democratic Alliance. Old-fashioned behaviors! Is neo - party behaviors to promise 13th and 14th wages and then do what you do? Is neo-party behaviour to say that you will be abolished by a law, in an article in the memorandum and bring the painful memorandum of August? Is it a neo-party type rather than an old-fashioned type to ask for no privatisation - as Mr Stathakis has recently done in TRAINOSE - EUR 300 million and, in the end, for the same privatisation to be done instead of EUR 45 million? Here we have lost the concept of words. And of course, on this particular issue, which you attacked a moment ago in the Democratic Independence, I would like to tell you that four times Mr Maniotis has tabled a topical question on the issues of PPC and IPTO - four times! - and you haven't even come to answer. And instead of answering why you have not come and in any case, since you are here to give an answer on the specific issues of the question - you are not answering the question, say a word here - you have risen and attacked.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u162	And that's what Mr. Maniot is lying about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u163	You will answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u164	Twice it was when it changed...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u165	Minister, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u166	You will answer, Minister, then!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u167	Not on my own responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u168	You'll answer, okay!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u169	Minister, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u170	You know that and you say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u171	Minister, don't interrupt! Nothing is recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u172	Minister, do you know what you're answering?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u173	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u174	That you haven't come to answer twice. You're answering that it's not four, it's two!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u175	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u176	Answer me! Take the microphone and answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u177	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u178	Minister, note what you want and you'll answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u179	Why don't you answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u180	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u181	Mr President, give me the floor to answer the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u182	Excuse me, go back and address the Minister and then the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u183	You will hear truths! You will hear truths!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u184	Well, Mr. Theocharopoulos, keep talking. Minister, don't interrupt. Note what you want in some of your interventions, you'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u185	Look, don't get mad at the truths. You just said you haven't answered twice and if you know why. Why didn't you answer today? And you attacked a moment ago. Leave it twice. Well, as far as the amendments that have been tabled are concerned, I understand your irritation over all these issues and about all this undoing of promises, but also about making an attack on these specific issues, it goes very much. As far as the contested amendment on limiting the potential revenues received by the gas manager from recoverable amounts of previous years is concerned, and which can continue to raise serious issues in relation to the 66% of the company's shares, new fees reduce the company's future revenues by around EUR 200 million at nominal prices. It is a serious matter and must be dealt with as seriously and responsibly as possible. You have also developed the argument in the committees that the recovery of these amounts in combination with the increases resulting from the application of the existing TECF tariff regulation would lead to 68% increases in network charges, which you say is translated into a new charge of 4% to 5% for domestic industry. At the same time, however, both 'SOCAR' and 'SNAMI' have expressed their discontent and consider the proposed amendment as a breach of the original agreement signed two years ago. In any case, because privatization has been jeopardised - as you said before your speech, you want privatization to go ahead - and answer what you intend to do from now on, if the matter comes back. You said that you spoke with them, we have also seen recent communications, at least 'SOCAR', on this subject. So give concrete answers on how to avoid reaching a situation in the last few years, which will be a problem. Do you intend, first of all, to proceed with the procedure, which, according to the forecasts, can bring investments of EUR 400 million in the energy sector? And if so, how will you deal with this situation that has been created mainly by the statements by the representative of SOCAR in Greece, who are strengthening the possibility of a possible shipwreck of the agreement? How will you ensure after the previous negative experience with 'COSCO' the credibility of the country? I hope that we do not get to the same situation at some point, that at the last moment certain arrangements will not be accepted and that they will then be changed again, because you know that is worse for the credibility of the political system and the government and Parliament. We therefore want to draw your attention to the process at the moment, so that we do not end up in such a situation, as it has resulted in the negotiation process with 'COSCO'. As far as the example of 'TRAINOSE' is concerned, I do not need to tell you any more. I told you before that, in any case, is the credibility of project reasons, whether or not it has been observed in relation to earlier declarations and acts in the last few years. With regard to Mr Pappa's amendment - Mr Pappas is not here to discuss it now - he moves the procedure for the direct invoicing of media advertised. We should therefore be told by the Minister responsible whether the proposed extension to this amendment relates to his legislative initiative. Did he say before that it relates to a certain degree, but will he implement the 2014 law that goes with extensions? Or will he not apply and bring an extension right now and then implement a law that will bring us? And if so, as it brings the extension, why does it not inform the law precisely and what will it have in the final law for Members to know before the vote? These are the questions that need answers so that someone can be placed in this particular amendment responsibly. They haven't been given so far. So I will not go into detail the other amendments, which of course have absolutely nothing to do with issues of the Ministry of the Environment. They continue in the same deadlock, fragmentary and clipping way of legislating. Ladies and gentlemen, the energy sector today is characterised by challenges, to which we are called upon to respond by planning, by institutional change, with initiatives. Unfortunately, however, the government proves ineffective in this area to promote radical changes in a progressive direction. We need a new production reconstruction plan, which will be planned, presented and of course will include energy as a key pillar of this new productive reconstruction plan. Eighteen months now, a year and a half have not been seen, society does not know and we do not even know what this productive reconstruction plan is for the country. If there is, which sectors, which sectors? We know absolutely nothing. And of course we do not know what role the energy is to play in this plan, if any. So, Minister, what you have to do as government for our country at the moment is at least now to start the process of a new production reconstruction plan involving both the energy sector and all the sectors in which we have comparative advantages so that the country can come out of the crisis. As long as this is not the case, the country will go deeper into the crisis and no matter how much the government crys about what it has done and what it has not done in this process, we will not come out of the crisis to move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u186	Mr Saridis has the floor from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for our country, for Greece, the issues of energy policy because of its geopolitical position are at the same time foreign policy and national defence issues. It is a duty for each Greek government to coordinate effectively its work so that the multidimensional service of national needs is effectively implemented. I believe that the articles on the directive show that we learned something here too from the unprecedented ecological disaster in the United States in 2010. The main issue of the bill is that of harmonising us with Europe with the safe performance of offshore operations. Today there are only two of them, Prenos and Kavala, which, of course, are essentially a single body and their future will be common. In the future, however, more will be created. It is imperative, therefore, that we now do everything that needs to be done to protect the natural wealth of the Greek seas, as an offshore ecological disaster could destroy Greek tourism in a moment, destabilise the country and make it very difficult to get out of the Memorandum Crisis. The mistakes made by other countries, by destroying their environment and their economy, must be a guide to the decisions we make. Indeed, this European directive lays down rules and creates a safety framework based on prevention. This is the main issue for us in the Centroon Association. Our priority must be to prevent and avoid disasters, but also to prepare for if everything fails. This Directive helps to protect both workers and the natural environment. This, of course, does not mean that we should not remain vigilant. In the course of exploiting our country's energy wealth, we must provide for a number of issues. The example of Cyprus, which the honourable Member, Mr Maniatis, mentioned in detail, shows the potential for Greece. A lot of prospects are being opened for the qualitative and efficient exploitation of Greek energy sources. We must wisely and with understanding all the political forces to support this effort to upgrade Greece's energy wealth which has the potential to keep the country at a competitive level. With regard to the abolition of the tests of energy inspectors, this is a defeat for the government and a victory for bureaucracy. Because we have never been able to carry out the tests properly, the world has not been able to follow up the postponements and we have now come to consider the abolition of the tests as a solution or even as an opening-up to the profession in order to stimulate the market. The distortions created will be the subject of many controversies that will ultimately affect the market and social cohesion. The sloppiness of accepting that we cannot be like the other twenty-five European countries nor on this simple subject creates many questionable and reasonable questions. If we cannot apply a simple procedure such as the one concerning who can be energy inspectors, then what confidence can we have in implementing the European offshore business directive? This does not solve the problems, not create the conditions of stimulation and strengthening of the market. We will need to return to this matter soon to deal with the results of your failure to abolish the examinations. The provisions on the register are also the positive ones, but also the use of new technologies as a means of weakening bureaucratic obstacles. Also, in the case of quarries, their operation and, ultimately, the transparency of quarries is another one of those which, quite simply, nobody understands why we let them get to this point before we do something. We also support this effort. In closing my position, I should like to refer to an issue that you themselves have actually raised in this Chamber and you, Minister, in your reply, are dealing with the Tritsis Park. On the issue of Tritsis Park, the Centroon Association of 23-12-2015 had asked a question to the Ministry where it actually asked the legal framework for the management, licensing and maintenance of this park, to get the answer three months later, in March 2016, which said: "We will talk to all stakeholders to find the best organisational and administrative shape for the management of the Tritsis Park". In a report submitted on 13-4-2016 to your Ministry, Minister, where we had effectively put the positions and views of the Municipality of Ilio as regards the management of the Tritsis Park, you simply replied that you would take these views into account and decide. In the Minutes, I answer the questions and the answers we have received from the Ministry. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Saridis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A few days ago, I went to make autopsy at Tritsi Park, because it's an issue I'm committed to helping and finding a solution for. Apart from disturbing Mr Tsironi and Mr Skourletis with my questions, I am also trying to find solutions, to propose something. So in the process I find it very important that I also know the opinion of the people, the people who live there. So, on the high road Republic, where the JRC makes its concerts, at the north entrance of the Tritsis Park, there are the KAPIs. There we met with people and they actually told us that there is no sincere concern, that everything is a lie. For 15 years there has been this situation in Tritsis Park. If tomorrow there's a fire in Tritsi Park, what's going to happen? It's a question that should not be left through anyone's mind. The Central Association soon and in cooperation with the mayors will launch a public information campaign aimed at highlighting the crime that exists in Tritsis Park. We would really like to know the content of the amendment that you will bring us and we would like to know whether the mayors are also aware of the content of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u188	Independent MEP Mr Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, 'yes', 'yes, hypocrites and 'yes'. We are watching the Minister - most recent - knowing everything, but not the statements of his co-pilot, Mr Kammenos. Mr. Pappas...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u190	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u191	It's not possible. You do not have the courage to say 'I do not agree'. Say it! 'I do not agree with these statements'. It's nothing. But something else forces you not to say those words. It's not hard. Mr Papapas earlier, yesterday he closed the channels, 'Mega is a past', today it gives channels a few months not to pay taxes. These extensions bring us today. Hypocrisy has a limit. Today we are integrating a directive of the European Union. That's good. Finally, we are reducing the volume of the directives we have to ratify, even if this is overdue and with problems. Since March 2015 you have had the plan from the competent committees. Almost a year and a half after we talk about it. As usual, you are voting and promoting legislation on matters that you have voted against as opposition. Let it be. This is where you sold your ideology. Selling everyone you fooled that you were supposed to support them. Are we going to deal with that shithole with the hydrocarbon management company? But that is how you despise politics. You give the impression that lying is part of politics. No, ladies and gentlemen. Lying is a component of politics so far, of yours and of the past. Not ours. Not the Democratic Responsibility. We do not intend to extend for the fifth time the temporary licences, as you do with Article 41 in quarries, because we do not have the guts to complete the quartz map. Thirteen years in consultation. Nor should we transfer the costs of moving from one budget to another, as we do in Article 45. And other articles. I think there have been many good colleagues who have said the problems. There is, of course, the question of Article 61 with the EPC. Mr. Skourletis changes the conditions for privatization. What should first be the first anguish of each minister? How will development finally come, how will these investments become, as the Democratic Responsibility suggest, to unite the energy sector with the construction sector and with a new programme of billions, financed by the Juncker package, to start the construction industry to upgrade the buildings? We are in vain waiting for such designs to be made. Instead, we are changing the conditions of privatization. What do you mean, Mr. Skourlet? 'Do not dare and come to an investor in this country'. Unofficially, listen to it. Mr. Skourletis prefers you to unemployment. He doesn't say it for the first time. He said it with the Squirrels, which one took the licenses, and then he gave them without actually changing anything. We were told by Mrs Inglezis a moment ago. We heard it from her. He told us that the company you licensed doesn't protect the environment. So how did you clear it? Suspect. Nor is he, of course, the only minister who says so. It's unfair to only talk about Mr. Skourlet. Mr Dritsas said it's the port. And then he took it all back. Of course, Mr. Skourletis will be getting away with it now, because the Prime Minister does not have a trip to Azerbaijan. If he had a trip in a couple of days, he'd take all this back. We'd be running around with amendments for the Minister to pick up the unbroken ones. Mr. Drizzas didn't plan it well, so he was forced to take it back. We ask: 'Why does the Prime Minister give an excuse to the Azerbaijani people to leave?' We have been told by the committee that they have a problem with parity, that is why they have a problem with their economy and that is why they find an excuse to leave. What do we do? Are we giving them an excuse to leave and get away without putting a single euro in? Is that the Greek Minister's job? Save the Azeros? Why are you deceiving, Minister, the world for the price of gas? Of the EUR 50, EUR 3,2 is the price of the CIS. And two euros, having the 50 euros, would be 52 euros. Is that what really burns the industry? You tell us that RAE agrees, but she told you she can't make a change in the past but from now on. And that's why he asked you to pass the order. Good. Did RAE change the regulation from now on? Changed the regulation? Why? Only when RAE changes the regulation will you have the moral right to bring the amendment on past charges. Otherwise, we will be back in six months, one year to bring us back an amendment for the next year, which the regulation will not have changed. There are many questions which do not allow us to support the amendment that ex post overthrows an investment. The mistake is not wrongly corrected, Minister. It's the wrong regulation. I agree with you and agree that the regulation is both wrong and suspicious. On the other hand, it took place just before privatization. But it is a double mistake to change the terms of a process already under way. With the people you have not honoured your word. You promised a lot, you didn't give anything. Not a little. Nothing! As politicians you deceived. You are liars and the Greek people will judge you. As temporary managers of the Greek state, however, you have no right to undo the credibility of the Greek state, canceling its signature and if you do not understand it, we will not support you in your downfall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u192	Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Ilias Kasidiaris, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u193	It is a huge matter of Greek hydrocarbons. According to Greek university professors, the exploitation of Greece's mineral wealth, the use of Greek hydrocarbons could solve the economic problem for ever. A lot of madness has been heard here, beyond SYRIZA's assholes. It was heard until there was no future in the use of hydrocarbons. So we should put things in place, on their real basis, by referring to why these things must be heard in this House - the evidence submitted by the praisers, the Greek professors, who know this subject and are very specific about the economic benefits that our country could have if Greece were to be governed by a genuine national government and that it was immediately going on to exploit our mineral wealth. According to the professor of geology at the University of Patras, Mr. Zelidis, the utilization of the deposits primarily south of Crete, within the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone, could ensure the energy self-sufficiency of Europe for decades. So we can understand why the SYRIZA Government was so anxious - ANEL to continue the work of selling PASOK and New Democracy and to bring to the vote the creation of a supertarget, which leads first of all to the divestment of Greek hydrocarbons. After all, the Germans of Deutsche Bank, the same foreign loan sharks who have enslaved our country, are the ones who have spoken of EUR 420 billion gains only for the deposits south of Crete, to which no one refers. Nobody dares to report. They're talking about the Ionian, very right, the Patron Gulf. No one talks about the deposits south of Crete. No one speaks of Greek Exclusive Economic Zone, except the Golden Dawn it has submitted since 2012 a special law proposal. If this proposal is passed and it becomes a law of the state, within one day Greece has declared itself an Exclusive Economic Zone, something that Cyprus, Israel, Egypt, all Eastern Mediterranean states have now proceeded to drilling and make money from the natural gas deposits, the deposits of which are the deposits of the Herodotus basin. New evidence is provided by Professor Foscolos. I am referring to an article by Professors Foskolos, Lygeros and Konofagou, who specifically speak of the area south of the Gulf of Messara on the fourteenth floor of the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone, which all the Mezzogiorno governments refuse to declare, wait for everything to be sold out and then proceed to an AEZ declaration, so that the benefits, the profits, the gains of foreigners get them. There, according to Professors Foskolos, Lygeros and Konofagos, there is an area with 400 billion cubic meters of gas that can yield for the next twenty-five years 5.5 billion euros to the Greek Government and 1,1 billion euros to the Region of Crete. Professor Foskolos, the expert - because he is not Skourletis - is not the representatives of the previous actors, the ministers of the previous governments, representatives are the professors of geology of the Greek universities - says in particular: "If the governments dared to take advantage of the deposits south of Crete, it is no exaggeration to speak of a one-digit unemployment rate in the country over a period of time". We would also solve the problem of unemployment if Greece were finally moving on, based on its own powers, to exploit its mineral wealth. And the expert continues: "If there is finally a government will and the horrific syndrome is overcome against Russia..." These words are very important, because I will then go on to refer to the case of the divestment of DESFA to the Azeros and the proposal made by the Russians of GAZPROM to buy the DESFA, which was blocked by the Commission and I had told Moscovisi when he came here and made fun of the Greek Parliament, saying then that the memorandum led to an increase in the Greek Gross National Product. So he says Professor Foscolos: “There must be government will and the horrific syndrome over Russia must be overcome. And then, in a few years' time, by 2020, we could have moved on to mining, to produce hydrocarbons, to make money for the Greek state from gas production." As long as, for these unrelated ones who say: "We will be long delayed, it takes many decades, that these deposits are very deep, and we cannot exploit them", specialist professors are correlated by the Greek deposits with the look on the plots of Cyprus in the Cyprus Exclusive Economic Zone and say, "Exploration is absolutely possible, as the depth of the deposits allows such an investment. These are deposits that are as deep as the plot "Aphrodite" of Cyprus, but which, as far as production is concerned, is three times smaller in natural gas deposits than in the south of Crete, within the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone, which you refuse to declare. So I'm going to the D.C.F. thing. We all remember in the government of Samara - Venizelos the dynamic introduction of GAZPROM to the Greek market, a proposal which was far beyond the proposal you are working on and are now discussing, the Azerbaijans, the 'SOCAR', a Turkish satellite, which at the last minute blocked by unfair and illegal intervention from the Commission. Because European loan sharks do not want the Russian actor to be dynamically involved in Greek things. Because they know that with a direct partnership, with an alliance of Greece - Russia, our country will grow geopolitically, it will cease to be a protectorate of the European Union, it will be able to make money, it will have huge revenue from the exploitation of hydrocarbons and it will no longer be the poor relative, it will cease to be this state that you all want to turn Greece into Greece and, in part, you have achieved over the last few decades. As I said, however, DESFA is selling out at 'SOCAR', a company of Azerbaijan, a Turkish satellite state. On a Turkish satellite you want to turn Greece today. I shall certainly refer to the issue of the eight inmates of the Turkish army. There is no sympathy for these people - Greece's enemies are and, as such, they must be dealt with - but a serious national state, of course, would give them political asylum. Firstly, because they deserve it, because if you send them to Turkey, they will be cut off their ears and heads, they will be raped and killed - that is for granted - as other coups have done, but above all, because we can take advantage of them, we can take out Turkey's state secrets. They know all the secret plans of the Turkish General Staff against Greece. A serious national state would therefore take all these secrets from these Turkish actors and give them political asylum. This is how serious states work, not protectors. And because I talked about a protectorate, of course, we all saw what happened yesterday in the town of Komotini, where we had an illegal gathering of Turkish intelligence agents. The Golden Dawn had predicted, had filed monthly reports against all those who are conducting, conducting anti-national propaganda within Greek territory. What was the reaction of the SYRIZA regime? It was to send the MATs, the "left" MATs, which beat as well as the MATs of the previous governments, and beat and beat with clubs and chemical Greek citizens, who strongly demanded that Turkish propaganda cease within Greek territory. And the left government sent the "left" MATs and washed the whole town of Komotini in chemicals to back up the Turkish para-state. This is SYRIZA's government. The country's honour was rescued, of course, by the indignant Greek citizens who dynamically came out on the street and shouted at the slogan "Greece belongs to the Greeks" and clashed with the forces of SYRIZA. Of course, not to blame you, you want to turn the country into a protectorate of Turkey, but you have already turned it into a protectorate of the United States. This is where we see the fragile phenomenon of the American communist. I am going a little back to relate what I will mention to the energy and natural gas case that this House is discussing today. In 2012, he had come here to Greece, at an Economicist conference, the Eastern Mediterranean agent of the State Department Richard Morningstar and said publicly that: "Greek cannot make use of natural gas deposits south of Crete unless agreement with Turkey has been reached before." What did the American mean by simple words, simple arithmetic? Take advantage of the deposits, get 10% of you, 10% of the Turks and 80% of the foreign factor. And, of course, I am talking about US communists in SYRIZA, because today you are continuing this very policy of subjection to the American factor. We saw the present Minister enjoying himself with the American ambassador, with the people's killers - as you said - the other day in the American Embassy and it did not make us any impression. We know very well that since the day your Prime Minister went to Texas, he has given you land and water to the foreign player, and that is why he is a Prime Minister today or at least he pretends to be the Prime Minister in Greece. All post-government governments, therefore, have made a joint decision not to exploit the country's mineral wealth. It is no coincidence that the Kavala oil we are discussing today, the North Aegean oil has begun to exploit it - and then it could not go back, of course - and the first drillings were set up there in the underwater space of Thassos, Kavala and the northern Aegean on military government. And on military government in 1938, on John Metaxas, the first drill was set up in Katakolo of the Prefecture of Elijah. The reason why only the military governments in Greece take advantage of the country's mineral wealth to employ you who run our country and do absolutely nothing for the Greek people. Because in the interests of the Greek people alone, the exploitation, use of these energy deposits must go ahead. I would like to say that we do not have a democracy today. I was in prison for a year, the House was running with two hundred ninety Members. After a year of imprisonment the competent court council told me, "I'm sorry, but there's no evidence in the litigation against you." The only evidence there were some phones that had fallen from Prime Minister to supreme judiciary officers. So there is no democracy today. Don't make fun of the world. We abstained from this festivities of yours, from this fieste. Because it is a challenge when the people are being thrown away, when the people are literally exterminated from partying with champagne, with expensive toilets in the chili. While the Greeks live below the poverty line, while the Greeks commit suicide it is a huge challenge to become such blemishes from the political system. The Golden Dawn - to close - is the only political force with a proposal on the exploitation of Greek hydrocarbons. We have tabled a draft law since 2012. We challenge you to have this proposal for a law to proclaim the Greek exclusive zone, because this is the only way to exploit the country's mineral wealth. And then with a geopolitical shift towards Russia, with an opening to the Russian factor and an alliance of trade, defence and energy with the Russians, Greece will be able to do what it really must be, that is, a leader of power in the Eastern Mediterranean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u194	Mr. Mavrotas from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. This draft law incorporates the European directive on the safety of offshore hydrocarbons, i.e. oil and gas. First of all, I would also like to point out another friendly tactic for the SYRIZA Government to bring to the consultation a draft law of thirty-fifths of articles on the incorporation of a European directive, and suddenly present in Parliament a bill of sixty articles with various other heterogeneous instruments. So, unfortunately, the modules of energy inspectors have not been widely discussed or your new version of Latin legislation has not been discussed. Our special speaker, Mr Amyras, has been mentioned in detail to the individual members of the bill. I will insist on the issue of the third chapter on energy inspectors. In this respect, therefore, a first general comment - which also reflects the respective community, as was seen in the hearing by the institutions - is that the provisions you bring most create and complicate the situation rather than address the problems that exist. A diligently vague landscape makes it even more blurred. Specifically, we do not understand the purpose of Article 52, as it refers to the 2010 CENAK and makes no reference to the most recent article 10 of Law No.4342/2015 on the energy efficiency that incorporated the European Directive 27/2012 into Greek law. Why is there no link to the recent L.4342/2015 on the energy auditors, including the energy inspectors to them and clearing the landscape about the specialties of diplomat engineers? So what difference does the energy auditor have from the energy inspector to differentiate the legislative provisions and create a legislative salt? Why do you refer back to the 2010 KENAK and ignore Mr.4254/2014, who effectively abolishes photographic devices that acted discriminatoryly in favour of certain diplomats? In particular, in paragraph 2 of Article 52 you say that energy inspectors can become those who have the right to sign an energy efficiency study based on the CENR 2010 by ignoring recent developments and European legislation that we have incorporated with Laws 4254/2014 and No 4342/2015. In fact, with the legislative improvement you have submitted, we have learned that there are also energy inspectors who have issued energy-efficiency certificates for buildings, but have not had the right to draw up an energy-efficiency study. In other words, on the one hand, we have energy inspectors who have the right to sign energy efficiency studies, but there are also energy inspectors of another category who do not have the right to sign an energy efficiency study. It's a classic example of clay-frog legiting. Instead of clarifying the landscape, as is imposed by the relevant European directives, you have made it even more confused by maintaining exclusive rights in specific categories of engineers. At some point we have to discuss all these things here in the House. My second comment on the energy inspectors is on Article 57, where you are abrogating the n.e.c. 100/2010, i.e. abolishing the requirement that the candidate energy inspector must have attended specialised seminars, after giving examinations and thereby obtain relevant certification for the issue of energy efficiency certificates. Why is that so? Are you generally against the assessment of qualifications and certification after an examination? Or is it because you're allergic to any form of evaluation - and we see that in education and in public administration - the ball took that too? Consistently, all operators said there is a need for specialised training and certification of the energy inspectors. In fact, at second reading in committee, the Minister argued that the energy inspection is in too many schools and lessons. From my experience, as teachers, at the National Technical University, I can assure you that getting the diploma does not automatically make him qualified and accredited engineer. He gets the basic knowledge, learns to look for how to solve a problem, but surely the diploma doesn't give him an expert on all practical issues. Diplomas and diplomas are probably a prerequisite, not proof of specific qualifications and accreditations. On the other hand, if only the diploma was enough, it is like telling me that a graduate in 1970 and 1980 has received in school knowledge of his technologies, for example, for recent cogeneration technologies, for fuel cells, geothermality and other modern technologies, or new methodologies for the calculation of thermal and cooling loads, that is, things unknown when studying in the 1970s and 1980s. That is why it is necessary to update knowledge and to confirm it in order to upgrade energy services. And alas, if the engineers were stuck in the curriculum of the time they studied. That is why we believe that diplomas and diplomas are necessary, but not suitable conditions for qualified professional rights. In other words, the diplomat cannot just sign studies on everything. There must be disconnection, otherwise the substance and content of the studies will be lost and it will only count the paper, which will be the signature passport of each type of study. However, when the trend throughout the world is continuing certified training, neither do we nor the bodies that we have heard in the audience, because you want to abolish it. Finally, we hope that you will not be forced, once again, by the way you legislate to take back provisions that you are now voting on and then suggest that you withdraw them or amend them. For these reasons we believe that you should link Article 52 of this bill to very recent Law 4342/2015, which must finally be activated. We are not just voting for laws to be found in the VETs, but also for them to be implemented. Furthermore, in our opinion, the training, evaluation and certification of energy inspectors should not be abolished in Article 57, so that the Greek society enjoys high quality energy services from certified personnel with up-to-date knowledge. The big bet is, therefore, to clarify the landscape, to lay clean rules in line with European data, to give equal opportunities on the basis of certified knowledge and not to raise syndicated walls. Energy upgraded and energy in general is a very important matter for us to leave it as a result of bureaucratic and synergistic interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u196	We continue with the last speaker from the list, Mrs Kefaliannis from New Democracy, and the parliamentary representatives will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill on transposition into the National Law of Directive 2013/30, which in any case is being delayed, despite the fact that the legislative text was already in place by the previous government, the Minister of Energy, Mr Skourlet and the Government in a sudden way and, in any case, without any prior information, brought an amendment on Friday 15 July on the recoverable differences in the DESCRIP, with retroactive effect for 2006-2010, which effectively poses a serious threat to the militarisation of the DESCRIP, which has been signed between ICT and “SOCAR” on the entry of this strategic investor into the ETUC’s share capital. Once again, the government, in its irresponsible attitude, causes problems, as it leads to a reduction in the company's value, dynamics one of the most important investments in the energy sector, which, beyond the direct economic benefits, also has a great geopolitical and geostrategic importance for the country. And we're wondering, Mr. Skourletis, do you not understand it or are you just trying to blow privatization into the air? In any case, Mr Skourletis seems to have a selective institutional sensitivity, as his well-known regularism further undermines the independent role of the Energy Regulatory Authority. It started with the "block" of its full-collection and replacement with party selection executives of its own and its predecessor, Mr. Lafazanis, and now requires the responsible regulator, RAE, to recalculate the amount that the administrator is required to recover for the use of its infrastructure and investments and to amend its own earlier decisions, which RAE should now characterise as wrong. There are thus very serious questions of infringement of national and Union law. Minister, the issue of the calculation of grants to the share capital of the EPC did not arise today. This methodology has been followed since 2006. If it was wrong or right, it does not change the unacceptable way in which you chose to do it. And don't tell us that you're cutting yourself off for industry and its costs, because you and your government, either with your actions or your omissions, do everything you can to affect its competitiveness, with the irrational and over-taxation, with your ideological tangles and the stiff state party mechanism that you have established. Minister, at last you understand it, the dangerous moves and in the case of the demilitarisation of the TECF, are against the public interest. They deeply wound the country's credibility, further aggravate the economic climate and further discourage candidate investors that the country needs so much. Finally, connect to realism and understand that trust is a predominant condition for investors to come to Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion has been tabled including Article 50, regulation - an amendment abolishing the derogating structure on high-quality agricultural land and it is indeed positive that it has been withdrawn, following constructive pressure from the New Democracy side. And it is good, because as we have proposed, a substantial and scientifically documented dialogue should be preceded by the country's broader spatial planning. The draft law provides for the setting up and operation of two authorities, the licensee, to issue the relevant licence for the exploitation of hydrocarbon land to the undertakings concerned and the competent authority whose character is regulatory and control. The fact is that at the transitional stage and until the establishment of the competent authority, the hydrocarbon management company shall exercise its powers. However, there are issues of conflict of interest here, as the administrator also assumes a role of regulator, a practice that is not compatible with what is currently in place. Directive 30/2013 provides cover for conflict of interest, as it gives this alternative to cases where offshore facilities do not exceed six, however, Minister, it is absolutely essential and crucial that you clarify some serious issues, such as what today's staffing of the EDPS, so that it can take over and cope directly with the relevant tasks by voting on the law. Will the EDPS proceed directly to check the screening of Preno, or will you invoke the argument of changing the internal rules of procedure and the outstanding secondments of officials? What do you do with the question of the administration of the HR? Has the administration been designated? When's the last time the board met? Is the EDPS finally working today? And if it works, why just a few days ago, Minister, did you say that at the moment the bids are being examined, two in number, for the twenty plots of the Ionian Sea? Why did it take more than one year to examine the two tenders? What's the Ministry doing, the ERC for hydrocarbons land plots? It should be stressed that in 2014 the Government had this issue very high in its priorities, maritime and land plots in a competitive process. Can you tell us, especially on land, Arta, Preveza, Istanbul, Istanbul, Northwest Peloponnese why the relevant conventions are not signed? Have you calculated the cost of the blockage? Have you calculated the cost of the direct investment that has not been made? Have you calculated job losses? Ladies and gentlemen, Article 41 provides for an extension for five years of the permits to operate and rent the quarry. The extension we believe should be longer, because the Mining Enterprises Association has also proposed that the possibility of extending 10 years should be legally granted. It is a more stable solution until, of course, the necessary quarrying law, which will permanently resolve the issue and resolve other retrospective problems. Ladies and gentlemen, we are clearly in favour of incorporating the Community directive. However, we consider it necessary and necessary to give substantial answers and solutions to the issues that we have raised in the bill many days ago. And it is absolutely essential that you show particular responsibility for the issue of the demilitarisation of the CIS. It is not possible for the Minister responsible with unilateral actions to call into question an agreement on the basis of an international competition, to reduce the role of RAE, not to consult with the HSE, to decide on the reduction of the company's value and the valuation of the company's assets by hundreds of millions of euros, causing further deterioration of the economic climate, and, moreover, to disregard the serious geostrategic and geopolitical dimensions. But did you not do the same with the agreement with 'COSCO'? But you were saying, but you agreed and signed, but you brought the House to vote, and then you were running to change them, even in view of the Prime Minister's trip to China. These are incomprehensible practices that harm the country, and try to understand, even with great delay, that a stance of responsibility is required, which sends out clear signals of seriousness and credibility to both Greek citizens and international investors. Your Government and the Prime Minister cannot speak of fair growth and investment when your actions prove that growth is a field of experimentation, unarmed tactics and ideological obsessions, which damage the Greek economy and devaluate Greece's image abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u199	Mr Minister, I would like to address the floor, asking you to speak of the amendment which has just been tabled and which has been shared by the groups. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to speak for a minute. This is the amendment I was saying to you in my speech concerning the IGM, and it actually makes it clear that all the specialities involved in the workshops sent by the IGM are covered by the costs for off-site. The second amendment, which we did not have time to table and go to another bill, will be discussed. It is the one that is a little broadening the limits of the days for compensation. I would also like to make it clear that the amendment, developed by Mr Papapas under the general number of 540 and by a special number 37, as well as the one developed by Mrs Chryssovelonis under the general number of 572 and a special 48, and by Mrs Jackson under the general number of 576 and by a specialist of 50, is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, may I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Minister. Ma'am, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, look, eight ministerial amendments have been tabled to this bill. The six are completely irrelevant to the draft law we are discussing. One came forty-five minutes before today's debate begins and the last one comes half an hour before we finish. Mr President, there is a limit, and let us agree with most of these amendments on the substance. But at some point the parliamentary procedure must be respected. Two of the amendments have not even been tabled by the Minister responsible to develop them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u204	Who do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u205	I am referring to the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u206	You're wrong. They were in the committees. They've been incorporated into the bill, and that's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u207	Is the Minister here in plenary? The other ministers are here. We are talking about two ministerial amendments. The Minister didn't even come to develop them. The President of the New Democracy, Mr President, has sent a letter on 14 June to the President of the Parliament - and I shall conclude - where he specifically refers to the - if you wish - the stifling of the parliamentary procedure. In this letter we still have not received an answer and we see even amendments tabled to the end of the debate and, even without the relevant ministers even coming in to develop them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u208	No objections, Mrs. Keramea. I think that all the parliamentary groups at times have voiced their objections - the strong points - to the issues of the amendments and other issues relating to the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u209	You must do something, Mr President. As a minimum, the ministers should come.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u210	You also know very well that the competent body to discuss this is the Conference of Presidents. So at the next Conference of Presidents to be re-examined.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u211	It's up to you to call the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u212	At the discretion of the President-in-Office it is for the House to call on whether or not it accepts an amendment which is late. That's what the regulation says. Consider it, then...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, please ask the ministers to attend.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u214	Openly, I'm telling you. Consider what the amendment contains and we decide accordingly, but it is not a matter which we will resolve here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u215	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u216	Mrs. Kyrame, your opinion has been heard. It's registered. We will discuss this at the Conference of Presidents. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Famelos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u217	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, starting with my position on the bill, I would also like to refer to the subject of the amendments, because after Mrs Keramos' speech, I felt it appropriate to check on this issue, although I had seen the situation. I would like to say here that it is good to follow the interventions of the Chief of Staff. As a parliamentary representative, you are doing well and you are giving a follow-up to this House, but I note that only one of the parliamentary amendments was overdue. All the rest correspond to the Members' right to contribute to the parliamentary work. Does your speech sometimes lead to extremes and restrict parliamentary work? We have been trying in recent years to limit delays and to do parliamentary work much more organised. I would like you to appreciate this effort and contribute without creating technical tensions, since much earlier than today's sitting - three weeks ago - both ministers came to committee and presented their own amendments. In any case, that was your assessment. Sustained. We are also critical of this. We'll be excellent, if not better than what we are now, at least from the past we've lived in. However, today's debate on the draft law, which we have, concerns a very important issue, I would say more overall, beyond the subject of the directive. Because it is in the context of the great - if you like - of energy policy, which has acquired a new dimension, a new framework, new objectives from the change in the government of SYRIZA, the Independent Greeks and the Epoch Greens, since it has banned energy policy as a key tool for our development policy, but also for strengthening our geopolitical position. I think this has become clear at international level, since it is not only the Prime Minister's meetings with the major leaders, but also the most important countries in the energy map, which have marked the last one and a half months, but it is also the combination of the great energy projects that gives us this feature. You referred earlier - several of the rapporteurs - to some of the projects on the energy agenda. The TIP was mentioned against coral, but no one spoke of the combination of the IGB with the IGB, the LNG in Alexandroupolis, with the broader design, which in SYRIZA now acquires specific features. And that, if you wish, is why it manages and combines development and energy projects in the region, but which are not on an agenda of a country that is declining to memorializes the economic policy of the European Union, but a country that is a different element of stability, democracy and also a key factor of development in the Eastern Mediterranean. This is not something that characterised Greece's previous political and economic history. Now, now, we are taking different steps and the rest of the countries recognise that. The European Union recognises this as well. Of course, if you wish, the Prime Minister's invitations at all levels of the international meetings that are being held and are not so small the attention and importance given to our country by the other neighbours, but also the wider economic community, are insignificant. With this bill, we come to fill an important gap in the respective legislation, which was foreseen as the result of accidents at the level of the European Union. It is very interesting that it is the highest level of protection that is guaranteed, with regard to coastal mining - let us say so - offshore research and exploration operations. It is therefore very good that both research and risk management are entering the country's institutional framework. This is undoubtedly a positive conquest. But things have also been heard, which - I would say - are out of reality. In the debate I heard - and Mr Theocharis is not here, of course - that the metallurgy study should be refused to return to the "ELLENIC CRYS" licence. Or did I hear before, for example, confuse mining in international waters or offshore research with various anti-scientific superstitions. I would say that we need to land the parliamentary debate, because things are a little too many times. The Minister, if I'm not mistaken, told the committees of the investigations, which are carried out on marine land. Specific things. It also mentioned how these procedures have been accelerated, which were very late. I remind you the first competition took a year and a half. The second competition made nine and a half months. Now, we're trying to go to the third competition to the sea plots in much shorter time. Let us not say air words, at least here, which fuel the public debate - if you like - misinterpretations. Of course, we have negative elements, such as the sharp drop in international prices, which does not create the most favourable environment for research on marine land. On the other hand, however, I think we should also take into account the strategy that the Minister has announced, that it is not appropriate for many land to enter the tender procedure at the same time, quite simply, because we do not want to reduce competition and reduce the potential for better results on the part of our country. As far as the bill itself is concerned, I think that prevention is most important in terms of accidents, which can happen in offshore operations. This highest level of prevention and protection is the key element in the European directive. That is why, when considering the technical and economic capacity of any licence holder, the licence should also consider its ability to deal with the conditions of research and mining, i.e. to carry out the work effectively, but also the technical capacity to deal with the accident and to cover - if you wish - any impact. However, I would say that prevention is much more important, because many of these effects on the environment have reversed characteristics. However, in any case, there is an obligation to such licences now for managers, but also for full economic and environmental restoration of any damage in the ecosystem or in the economic zone of the region. There has been a lot of discussion on the subject of the amendment to the TEC. It is a fact that the National Natural Gas Network Manager is in a routed privatisation, but it is very important, because it affects the end of the use of the network. This is a very important issue. The application of the existing price regulation, however, leads to increases of up to 70% at the end of the use of the network. In fact, in industry it is clear that this can lead to an increase of 4% or 5%, which has been described. In the private sector, if I'm not mistaken, it could be 7%. In any case, there is a mistake in the regulation. Systemic or not, there's a mistake in the regulation. So there is this very simple specific issue: the market, 60%, has a profit of 400 million. Based on the capital growth mechanism, the so-called ‘recoverable difference’, the refund is around EUR 547 million. So the country has to get 400 million and the owner will then win 547 million. At the same time, however, with what is damage to the country, there is a serious risk, I would say, that we will blow Greek industry, production and households. And that is based on the framework that you created before the notice. You're not responsible. There's a question. Was it known that there would be this profit to any buyer? You haven't answered. But now I say: What do you choose to do? Because that has not been answered. Mr. Theocharopoulos said that it is very important and we need to see it with great care and sensitivity, recognizing that there is a problem of interest for the country and for production. The Civic Opposition has not taken place. We ask: shall we charge production more? Take a seat. Are we going to give some hundreds of millions to any contractor? You haven't answered. It's something you created. And, obviously, because there was another question, if we change the terms of the tender in retrospect, I say that we are protecting the public interest in retrospectively, because some people have not predicted and have not protected it. Your responsibility lies solely with the competition, because it is not only the New Democracy's responsibility, it is the responsibility of the entire previous government. But now we have to take a position. Are we going to support the public and national interests, but also the interests of producers, in order to have competitive energy prices or not? For us it's clear. In productive reconstruction, the state must have its tools so that it can manage prices in terms of production, direction and protect the weak. This is clear to us. You're not in position. But be careful. The possible increase in prices, beyond the issue described, will also create a reduction in demand, reducing demand will secondaryly create an additional result of greater capital to be recovered. The result will be a higher public cost, if prices rise, but also a lower demand, so a reduction in IPDP revenues. So the PPC, our arm, which should contribute to other large energy projects, such as the Greek-Bulgarian pipeline or the LNG we mentioned earlier, will have a reduced capacity to finance. So you see how many problems multiplier, what domino, were created with this option on the energy market? That is why we are saying that we need to make a concrete decision. The second comment I would like to make concerns the energy inspectors. It's a difficult matter. There was a very long delay in the market, and I also recognise the anxiety of those who took the first certification, but also the anguish of all the others who left abroad because they did not get the certification. Because opening up if you want to buy in the field of energy inspectors doesn't drive people abroad, it's probably calling people from outside who has the skills. I now also address Mr Mavrota to my colleague, since we are graduates of the same school, chemical engineers. You are indeed a professor of this public school. We therefore have the possibility of signing as scientists the study of the construction of this house or of this technical infrastructure. We are, of course, signing it, because we have the possibility of signing simple engineering facilities. However, how are those who have the opportunity to sign the study on a property not to circumvent the energy inspection and must be certified. It has not yet been answered by the modern theory of science invoked by a world that you may defend. So how is it possible for a scientist, who on the basis of his professional rights, to sign an energy study, to not be able to inspect its implementation? On the other hand, we obviously need to support public education in order to achieve this level, so that it has these results of reliable energy inspection. No, however, because there may be weakness - I know in your department or the rest - to try to reduce public education more and cannot exercise the role so that at least the engineer who comes out of the market cannot do the simplest energy inspection I am sure he can. That's a theoretical question. Our view is that we need to take the production machine back in a specific direction, which was not the direction of the bipartisanism of the New Democracy and of the PASOK. We support fair growth, the efficient state with innovation, extroversion and exploitation of the trained capacity, and this is done by different rules beforehand. We're not the same. In the development law you had six and a half thousand investment projects and waited two years. At the same time, you had created a very serious problem in all the negotiations. In the Greek, for example, which you accuse us of having made an agreement with your own, clearly and not the same as yours, because we received an additional one and a half billion in public works, we took them forward, we took a park for society at least in one part of two million nine hundred thousand square meters, we reduced the building coefficient by 25%, we increased access to the beach by at least one kilometre with one kilometre, with very many other profits, such as the participation of the concessionee in 50% of the waste management. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. That's not the privatisation you did. This is a privatization that we were obliged by the compromise we had all made together as a country to complete the agreement in the summer, but we did so on much better terms for society than for the sale you did before. The same happened in the NSRF, which was basically drugged, and indeed from what I remember you had a timely question to lie to us about it, because you thought we would fail. We managed to close it to 113.6% and now be the first country in Europe. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] So we are completely different at all levels of politics, because quite simply this policy is for the benefit of society and the country. Even the interests of the country have not been able to serve! But how would that happen when with the head of UBS in Greece, who has eaten fines in all the other countries of the world, with multiple acts of fraud, intercepting correspondence and tax evasion, you refused to receive - with Mr Samaras - information from the German State to ensure the public interest in tax evasion. Mr Slavonis himself has appointed President of the CFS at the Government of Samaras - Venizelos, and now you have him in charge of development in New Democracy. Obviously, this model, which is rather a model of development Far West, for the benefit of your own - after Mr Papastavros and Mr Slavonis, others will probably gather - the country has decided to interrupt it. It has decided to go to another model of development of fair, environmentally beneficial and important geopolitical, as is the case with this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u218	Mrs Keramos, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as has been thoroughly analysed by our rapporteur, Mr Screka, we certainly agree with the incorporation of Directive 30/2013, which relates to the safety framework for offshore hydrocarbons. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important that this draft law should be passed, despite the government's remarkable delay. New Democracy delivered you ready, prepared the relevant draft law in February 2015, i.e. eighteen months ago. I understand you needed some time to process it, too. But, with a ready text on serious security issues, issues in the end of life and death, I think that the eighteen-month delay is difficult to justify. And I challenge you, Minister, to tell us what the substantial changes you have made to the draft law you have received from the Government of New Democracy and PASOK, which justifies the delay of eighteen months in incorporating this directive. Of course, I understand that the issue is not high on your political agenda, as is nothing about attracting investment in the country. In 2014, the previous government had the exploitation of hydrocarbons at the top of the environmental policy, both in relation to marine and terrestrial land. By the way, Minister, what about land plots? Why have you been delayed almost a year and a half to proceed with the procedures that will bring closer to the safer exploitation of the country's mineral wealth? Have you calculated what the cost of this delay is? These are questions for which we are waiting for answers. The Minister tells us it's over. When? This delay is challenging, when the Greek economy is being drugized because of the actions of the government, where unemployment is increasingly affecting parts of society and the recession has returned for good in our country. I shall briefly refer to three points in the draft law, which raise concerns: the first point is that we are obviously satisfied with the fact that the Minister, under the pressure of opposition, withdrew Article 50. Article 50 abolished without any documentation, without any control and without any dialogue with scientific bodies the possibility of building and developing investment, professional and productive activities, beyond rural areas, which are adjacent to the national provincial and municipal networks. No one doubts, ladies and gentlemen, the need to create a single spatial plan, a national plan, so that there can be rational development in our country. However, this must always be done on the basis of an integrated study, after dialogue with the scientific and social bodies, not in the air, not arbitrary and unscheduled, as you are unfortunately quite accustomed to operating in your policy. The second point, in relation to the articles relating to the creation of the competent authority, a authority which is of the character of regulatory and auditing powers - including - the assessment and acceptance of reports of major risks, as well as the supervision of the compliance of managers and owners with this law. However, during the transition phase and until the establishment of the competent authority, its responsibilities will be exercised by the Hydrocarbon Management Company. I will not dwell on the fact that issues of conflict of interest arise, even for this transitional stage, as the administrator also assumes the role of a regulator. He has already referred to the committees in detail. I will, however, dwell on the fact that, despite the provision for a small increase in staff, you are very well aware that the EDPS is under-represented and therefore raises a practical question of how it will work efficiently since it is immediately after the adoption of this law that it has to start its work. And why am I pointing it out? Because this is how you operate, ladies and gentlemen of the government, in every area of politics, earlier, without strategic targeting, without planning, without study and documentation. And we all know in this Chamber that recruitment is restricted, as these restrictions are imposed by our contractual obligations to creditors. We all know also how much public services are overstaffed, and we also know that by planning and targeted mobility the needs of the subordinated services could be met. Thirdly, I shall refer to Articles 53 to 57 on energy inspectors. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, I have not yet understood what problem is being posed by the existence in our country of official certified training in specific sectors, through which the knowledge of professionals, who are invited to provide specific services, will be updated. Why do you disagree with a training programme for the energy inspectors, who are the original and final certifiers of the studies produced, because only a small proportion of the studies of these environmental inspections will be audited by the state mechanism. In short, they also certify their reliability and ability to produce the result. So why, gentlemen of the government, is this ability not to be certified? Why should continuing vocational training be abolished? Because, ladies and gentlemen, your mentality, your logic is that of equilibrium downwards, the logic of minor effort. But this is never how our country will come out of the stall. And obviously we need to see the type of training provided, the cost, the process, in cooperation with the scientific bodies. But let us see it and redesign it, if necessary, not abolish it monoconon. And I arrive at one of the most critical points in the provisions of the amendment on the CRS. I regret, however, that the Minister decided to leave the Chamber at the very time when the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative got up to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, I really hope that we are wrong and that there is an explanation for this amendment of the government. It seems, however, that we are again in the face of government actions that are a dynamic climate between investors and the Greek side and which ultimately damage the credibility of the country. The Minister said earlier that in particular his actions do not jeopardise militarisation. And then I ask: why did the CEO of 'SOCAR' come out and say that if today's amendment is voted, does it not see how militarisation will proceed? What will the Minister do to save privatization? And if he doesn't care to save her, where will he find the 400 million that won't come to the public funds, because it will be dynamised, will this privatization have been thrown out? Ladies and gentlemen, the memories of the gallant debate in the House on the concession of the PPA to 'COSCO' are still fresh, when the Minister responsible for the 'almost one' of ratification of the convention proceeded to unilateral changes, which were essential, which differentiated the content of the agreement, so that the centralization of the port was called into question. A privatization that would send a positive signal to the international investment community was almost tolerated in the air because of the unilateral, hidden manipulations of the relevant minister and therefore the government. The same thing you did with PPA seems to have done with PPA, it seems you're now doing with DESFA. And I would like to explain that the Minister responsible is moving towards a unilateral devaluation of the fixed property of the ICES by hundreds of millions. With a ministerial decision that wants to legalise it, importing it as an amendment to this bill, it reduces by hundreds of millions the fixed assets of the company DESFA, where, as you know, the main shareholder is TIADED and thus the Greek public and Greek society. It does so because it believes that in this way it will not increase the price of transit currently paid by consumers of natural gas. Today, the consumer pays gas of about EUR 50 a cubic metre and of EUR 50 a, the transit charges are just EUR 3.2. The Minister therefore reduces by hundreds of millions of euros the property of the ICBM and is in danger of blowing an investment of 400 million euros into the air. And because, Minister, you were not in the Chamber before, I asked you this: you said that your purpose is not to pick up this privatization. What do you answer then, when the CEO of 'SOCAR' said that if this amendment is voted on by the Greek Parliament, does it not see how militarisation will proceed? How do you see privatization going? If you are not interested in saving the privatization, where will you find 400 million, which will not be invaded by public funds, because it is precisely not going to be the privatization of the TEC? And since you said that you were particularly interested in not making the increases in the exact time-limits, I would remind you that our responsible rapporteur, Mr Skrekas, has made concrete proposals to you, on the basis of which the costs of the Greek family, the Greek company, the Greek company, the gas company in Greece, may actually be reduced without harming the Greek public. Ladies and gentlemen, whatever the Minister's intentions, it is not possible for the government with the responsible Minister to act and amend the assets of the Greek State, which has already been offered and agreed with investors, without consulting these investors. What signal do we give investors, gentlemen? Why should they trust us? The head of 'SOCAR GREECE', asked by journalist, replied that he knew nothing about this unilateral action, for this amendment. Is it true? I don't know if it's true, I ask. Is it true what he claims? Have you consulted investors on reducing this property they are going to buy? Have you consulted with them on the tabling of an amendment that reduces by hundreds of millions the value of the company in which they will become shareholders? I think you confirmed that you had not been consulted before this amendment was tabled. Ladies and gentlemen, for our country to return to development orbit, we need investments that will bring jobs. I'm saying it very clearly. Of course, any improvements to contract time, wherever possible, are welcome. But you don't do that, you don't improve contracts. Desert to tactics, which damage our credibility, which are at risk of blowing down the few investments that have been agreed on in the air. Gentlemen of the government are at last responsible and serious both to investors who want to invest in our country and to Greek society, who suffer from the unbearable measures that you have imposed on it and which they expect to invest, in order to be able to see growth. What development are you talking about when you're firing everything out of the country? How will jobs be created if no investments come? [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. What investor will ultimately trust our country with such examples of bilingualism and unreliability? I did not expect that we would have such a live example of bilingualism by the Minister himself, who, from this moment on, told us that he basically disagreed with the privatization of the CRS, but that he was not obliged, not least, to do so. How will we attract investment in this way when you cannot take care of your own program? I shall conclude by referring to something that has already evolved, in Mr Kammenos's statement, to the message sent through twitter, which concerns Mrs Gennamas. It's been, I think, an hour and a half. The Minister told us before that he did not know the statement, which amazes me, because I think the whole political world was aware of this message. In any case, it's been an hour and a half. The Minister has, I imagine, been informed of the message. Minister, there are times when this Step of the House is talking over and above parties, we speak as human beings. I think, therefore, that all three hundred Members of this House should condemn this message concerning Mrs Gennamas and her personal problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u220	Thank you very much, Mrs. Keramea. Mr Dannelis, a Parliamentary representative from Potami, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. On the subject of procedure, I would like to say a word which, of course, has to do with the substance of the production of the parliamentary work, of the parliamentary procedure. We repeat monotonously. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. I imagine, however, that we all agree that the quality of the production of parliamentary work is not that. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we celebrated the forty-two years of return of democracy in our country, the best, the most stable, the most productive in the history of the modern Greek state. But democracy requires constant vigilance and institutional consolidation. And, of course, her quality is constantly being tested. Fortunately, ladies and gentlemen, last year's 'no' referendum fell asleep in its lap 'yes' and we remained in Europe. So the "plan x" has remained a scenario of morbid imagination of some dangerous fools, but they are also extremely dangerous types. Coming to today, we wait with particular interest in a few hours for the Prime Minister, who will present this evening the framework of the constitutional review, which he will propose to the political world. And we hope and hope that this framework will enable us to deal with several of the pathogens that are chasing the country's public life. I would also like to say a word about the issue which, in fact, has really left me at risk, as I imagine every Greek citizen: his refusal to condemn, Minister - not only you as a person, but, above all, the Prime Minister - Mr Kammenos's inappropriate comment, a comment that went beyond all his past, on the President of PASOK. I do not understand what the selective relationship between you and Mr Kammenos and that spirit is. I don't understand where the famous moral superiority of the Left has gone! I know her on the left. And we are no longer talking about political contradictions. We're talking about humanity. In fact, I am outdated by every Greek citizen, I imagine, in this country. We must now come to the draft legislation under discussion, the ratification of the directive, which has come a considerable delay today. It is a directive whose ratification, obviously, cannot be denied. On the occasion of this directive, I would remind you that a major European strategy is under way, especially for us, the blue development strategy. This regulation concerns two - three of the main areas for development: the extraction of underwater materials, blue energy, namely the development of facilities for sea wind farms and maritime farming. They are key areas in which our country has extremely comparative advantages. And since we are looking more than ever for the support of a sustainable productive model for the country, I think it is areas for which your Government must run. And I imagine that the whole political world will support your every initiative in these directions. With regard to Article 41, you said, of course, that you intend finally to bring the bill on the 'latomic map' - to say so - of the country. Because the extension not only solves the major problems of the country's degradation and destruction of the country's natural wealth, it brings - and, therefore, it undermines - incompatibilities in development efforts. And I will not go into a large number of such cases, which are afflicting regions of Greece. I will only refer to a clear case of incompatibility of uses at the western end of Crete, namely quarries, which continue to degrade and destroy the landscape next to some of the most beautiful corners of our country, in Falasarna and in Elafonisi, high-quality areas. But, as I said just before, we could look at a large list of such cases. For Article 61, on the arrangement to determine the recovery difference between the 2006-2015 IPCC period and the 2006-2015 period, I fear that we are seeing the project again with 'COSCO' shortly before the visit to China by the Prime Minister. While there are issues which should of course be of concern to us in terms of safeguarding the public good and wealth, we are very concerned that it is not morally or politically acceptable to change terms of international conventions. So a number of issues are being raised, which I do not know how to deal with, from the climate of unreliability, of course, for any possible investor that the government creates, even the reversal of the 2016 budget, because if almost half a million disappears from the State's revenues, balance of payments will be extremely difficult and will come again under the well-known procedure of tax enforcement. Tax, why and who? That is why we are concerned, Minister. I would like to conclude by saying that the amendment supported by Mrs Chrysofelonis just now, by a general number of 572 and by a special number of 48 - if I remember correctly - is in agreement with us, because we are in fact faced with problems in some areas of Greece, which would detract from whole areas of traffic services. I conclude by saying again that regardless of whether we agree and vote in favour of many of the amendments tabled, that is not a quality of production of parliamentary work. Because, indeed, it is the extreme expression of a deterioration in the functioning of Parliament to abuse in this area even in the ratification of international conventions, please, Minister, to see it again in the government. Of course, the Conference of Presidents, which decides, will have to see it more seriously, because we are almost concerned with this issue, which is repeated and now our regularity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u222	Thank you too, Mr. Dannelly. Here, Mr Carras, you have the floor as a parliamentary representative of the Central Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. Let me first refer to a point of order, which returns every day: the way in which amendments are tabled at the last minute. I know that this is an untechnical way of legislating. I have proposed - and let me also inform the House as a member of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure - that in the next Review, which is to take place at the beginning of September, we should seek a mechanism under which no provision of law will apply if it violates the Rules of Procedure. And if that is the case, it will even be placed in the Constitutional Review. Because regardless of the correctness or not, the necessity or not of the amendments, half an hour before the bill is passed or an hour before or even on the same day. It is not possible for Members to assess, interpret, see what the government is seeking, and in any case many of them also have the right to vote. The first part of the bill is an international obligation of the country. The issue of hydrocarbons is important. We agree with the first part of the bill on the grounds that it introduces European legislation, which, as we all know, is the result of consultation, compromises and a scientifically possible level, because the European Union has the services, it has the appropriate addresses, it has the potential. After all, the issue of offshore exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons also concerns international relations, not only in the country, because it is a compromise with international waters, because these offshore activities are carried out in international waters, apart from the Aegean Sea. Here too, there is a wider issue. Of course, we are well-informed about hydrocarbons today, but there are still many issues outstanding with the exclusive economic zone. We all know that the demarcation made with neighbour Albania has been annulled by the supreme court of the country. We all know that it will delay a new demarcation. We have our reservations as to whether we can ever demarcate ourselves with neighbour Turkey and, furthermore, because the issue of the gypsy zone takes precedence over it. Is she gonna stay at six? Are we going, as International Maritime Law provides, to twelve miles? We have full darkness in this area. But I mean something else. The current international situation, which is now beginning to raise the neighbour, Turkey, possibly under a transitional regime or a period of instability, prevents it and agrees with Greece and these issues which are pending. I fear that they will be extended, transferred to the ultimate future and we do not know what they are doing. Of course, legislation, even if it comes to this timely time, is always useful, so that there is the armour of the country and that legislation can be implemented at any time. As one reads the text of the first thirty-five articles, there is no reason to disagree, because it cannot add anything, we do not even have the know-how, the experience. Greece is very difficult to make an improvement or a removal. I shall therefore go further. The very issue of the bill concerns the country's mineral wealth in general. I have been told - and I have been given the opportunity before - that we must stand by the mineral wealth and especially the decorative stones, the marbles, which are largely in Greece and are, as far as possible, growing in time as possible, which is gradually de-industrialised and which have remained little, little, little exportable products. As long as China develops, of course, the Greek marble industry will grow. But is the current legislative regime helping her? I see, therefore, in Article 41, that we are attempting to regulate mineral wealth and, above all, not mining, latto-activity. Unfortunately, the mining wealth in Greece, whether we like it or not - regardless of the debate that is being held on whether the Skourias will pay or not pay or go, which are daily - has been abandoned since 1955. If you wish, I would also remind you of the problematic firms in the period 1980-1990, which have now ended any mining of ores. However, because we have quartz legislation, I will say this: the deadline for the setting of quartz areas is extended by the first paragraph of Article 41. But it's been extended since 1984! We have no objection to prolonging, but not every five years. There is the procedure, which is in line with the Constitution. I want you to allow me to say one more thing. All the decisions of the Council of State referred to in the explanatory statement and the Scientific Service of Parliament, I had the luck of handling them. Well, we've come to the conclusion that the quarry regions should already have been established. We have concluded that the law on quarries is only for supplementing or correcting an existing definition. I do not understand why we are prolonging for young people, for new interventions and, in particular, at a time when the Latto activity in Greece is downgrading. For we are talking about quarries of inert materials, which are dwindling every day, since we do not have a building activity, we do not have an intensity of public works, we do not have substantial production. So let this part of the legislation also be improved. We won't say no. I would just point out a few thoughts so that it can be operational. Because tomorrow it is possible for a supreme law-enforcement tribunal to come and say that the extension has exceeded the constitutional ceilings. What's going on here? And so, to abolish all the legislation. I have a comment to make on the subject of the category of guarantee letters and on the legal improvement in paragraph 7, which concerns the operators of quarries, marbles, inert industrial minerals, which have submitted the guarantee letter and which will not be required in multiple areas of restoration. That is what I think first of all. But I don't think that's right. That reforestation is to be lifted on those lands that have been given a guarantee letter. What areas? In those that we will have exceeded quarry limits, we are going to have an illegal change of use, so? And because a guarantee letter will be lodged for the restoration, will we violate Article 117 of the Constitution or say that there is no need, let the Constitution go to everything, to see what we will do to move on with the exploitation? And I'll say something else to the Minister. Yeah, which accusations, because this is where he puts them collectively. He's talking about inert marble industrially. So, we're saying that in the quarry areas, where we come out of the boundary, Minister, and because we're making illegal exploitation and we have a guarantee letter, we're going to lift the reafforestation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u224	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u225	I'm afraid if you vote for this law, you'll be in trouble along the way. I'm afraid you'll be in trouble. I now move on to the well-known Article 62 of the Forestry Act. What does that say to us? It tells us that in questioning the property regime, we will be granted a guarantee letter to operate. That's right, first of all. But he has a problem. This guarantee letter should not be equal to rent. It should cover an annual holding period in order to be renewed. Because if we go to the 15-year-old or 20-year-old rental period and ask for a guarantee letter contrary to the whole of the holding, no bank today is available and no operator is able to provide it. If we want to give an incentive, then, you give an annual guarantee letter, which is renewed or for one year's leases, which is indefinite and, if there is a breach, it will collapse. Let's go down. One issue, which has concerned me, is that I have found a good, even late, amendment by Mr. Nicos Papadopoulos, which deals with an issue. It settles the matter of the remaining areas in the quarries. I think we can support it too. Otherwise, I have two, three comments and I'm done. It remains the unification of the Mining Inspectors' Body, the Environment Inspectors' Body, the Building Inspectors. Do you know what problem this coincidence creates under one administration? But they are the criteria of environmental inspectors - which control the environmental conditions - and otherwise the criteria of the mining inspectors. It's the development of the farm. The mining inspector may only be a farm consultant for production. Today, with the confusion of competences, and if we conclude that a single institution will sign the fine, the certificate report and the ratification report that will be imposed, they will be subject to criteria - I will say it, even if it is a little bit more - of the specialty of the supervisor in question. If he is head of environmental services, he will "protect" anything that moves within the holding. If he is a metallurgical inspector, he will "protect" his own piece. If he is not a building auditor or an energy auditor, then let us say goodbye to every possibility of reasonableness, because the criteria there will be different. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In conclusion, I would like to say one last thing, which is the following. I've heard too much about the recoverable difference of the D.C.D. I have not reached any conclusion, ladies and gentlemen. I didn't understand if the order was right or wrong. We're talking with numbers, but I didn't hear anything about who's finally going to pay the bill, whether it's 213 million, as the correction tells us, whether it's 319 or a total of 859. Who's going to get hit? Are we talking about the consumer being partially released, will the industrial consumer, the home? It didn't draw any conclusions. And that is something that should be regulated, which will contain a completeness, to be dealt with, because ultimately, what I know is that the state budget and all the taxpayers will be charged. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u226	Thank you too, Mr. Carras. Mr. Papachristopoulos, would you like to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u227	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u228	Thank you very much, Mr Papachristopoulos, you facilitate the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u229	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u230	Wait a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u231	Much less, Mr President, for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u232	Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u233	Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving me the floor. I would like to express my opinion on a specific amendment, to which Mr Dannellis referred. It is the number 572/48 that deals with the regulation of an incoming and expenses issue from the national roads in cases where we have been working in progress on roads and exits. It also concerns the highway in the northern part of Heraklion, but it may also concern other areas. One point I don't think it's necessary inside. Where he says 'with or without a separator', he should say 'with a separator', but there is not the appropriate Minister, who presented it to us, to give us an explanation. We agree with the amendment. We say 'yes' to number 572/48, because it solves a problem on the highway on the northern roads in the region of Heraklion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u234	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, twenty three Belgian scouts. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Special speakers want to talk? There's a deal to talk up to two or three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u235	I'd like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u236	Good. So we're going in a row. Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u237	Mr President, there has been a debate, and we have also talked about this draft law, and especially about the first part, which concerns the transposition of the directive, although the debate has always been a scientist - very much - in this case, I do not think it is a bad one. I will simply say that, with regard to this draft law, there was a more general acceptance, at least for the part concerning the transposition of the directive. Some things have been mentioned by speakers and colleagues from the opposition in relation to issues of health, safety, the environment, etc. I would like to say that there are some fears possible if these mining procedures continue, etc. In the explanatory memorandum and within the draft law, it states: 'The other issues relating to the environment, health and safety of establishments and personnel are covered by the existing national and Community institutional framework and any additions thereto will be the subject of a further legislative initiative'. In other words, I would like to say that, as far as environmental impacts are concerned, this directive concerns the procedure and possible accidents, prevention and all this on the mining platforms. International legislation prevents such establishments in protected areas, in areas of marine water supply, in areas of NATURA, etc. As far as Greece is concerned, even the Poseidonian meadows are concerned, they have not yet been mapped sufficiently. Secondly, we have heard a lot about the Norwegian model and so on. Let me remind you that mining in Norway has taken place since 1970. It also means the depth of mining when it's about a hundred meters, while around here in Greece, we're talking more than a thousand meters. I would now say about the issues of education, because a lot has been said about education. In fact, there are departments that have to do with mining techniques and methodologies at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, postgraduate but also, of course, at the Polytechnic University of Crete. Let me mention that the three open door contracts, which have already been signed, report EUR 215,000 per year for public staff training, so that they can be able to do so. Finally, I would like to refer to the EDPS, which I have heard the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative say that it is subordinated, etc. It is said that there will be ten people from the public sector - be careful - and from the public sector, in fact, without the ESA being burdened by itself and without talking about new recruitments. I would like to say two, three things in relation to the general issues that have been heard. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We have heard a lot from some speakers say a little about the bill, a lot about the general political issue. In the case of privatization, I will come and say the following: the privatization of 'COSCO', ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, as you are referring to privatization - the process of privatization, privatization, as you say - has been done in SYRIZA. However, it was with an agreement which ensured far more than what you had agreed. And that is the qualitative difference of this government. We are talking about the exclusion of land facilities, about matters relating to staff, about the exploitation and the free front of the Drapetson coastal front - fertilizers. We, the SYRIZA - ANEL - Greens, this difficult agreement that has been voted on in September must implement it as painlessly as possible for the world and fight for certain issues that we have had to sign and agree so that the country does not go to the rocks. Also, because it was heard about TAP and so on, I would remind you that SYRIZA in the former New Democracy Government - PASOK voted'residents' in this draft law and that government in the agreement, signed by the Prime Minister, includes compensatory amounts from 11 million to 32 million for all three regions. There's a qualitative difference, even there. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me remind you, of course, of the reduction in PPC tariffs and all that the Ministry has advanced. I would say by closing down - and I thank you, Mr President, for breaking the three minutes - that some people here in general and from the opposition, especially from the former coup d'état, have to realise that there is another reality of politics in that country. There is another government, which is committed to solving issues and moving our country forward to development. As regards the country's productive reconstruction, a question has been raised, I think the PASOK Parliamentary Representative. What, he says, is the plan for productive reconstruction? The development law, which has recently been adopted, shows sectors of development, development and investment in high innovation, small and medium-sized enterprises, high added value investments and all of this. That is what we are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantari. Mr. Screka, you have the floor. Do you need three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u239	I won't need any more, Mr. President. Thank you very much. It is true that for about nineteen months, the political reality in Greece has changed. I fully agree with the rapporteur for the Coupling. In fact, we have a government, which consists of the alliance of deception. It's the government that makes the white one. It is the government that, for what the rapporteur of the Coupling Committee said, was at the bars and was against all these projects, in all these actions, in all these initiatives taken by the previous government. The current government of SYRIZA - ANEL does not want it, very well or badly, to exploit Piraeus and the agreement with 'COSCO' is signed by Kostas of Karamanlis, and the TAP is signed by Antonis Samaras. And everything you are bringing to the vote today in the House to make use of public property for the benefit of the public, for the benefit of the people, to create growth, to make money in the country, to create jobs, has the signature of the Government of New Democracy and the previous period supported by PASOK. That's the truth, they don't want to believe it, they don't want to say it. The reality is that the only privatization, the only privatization that bears the signature SYRIZA - ANEL is the privatisation and sale of TRAINOSE, which is sold today for only 45m euros, when two years ago it had a valuation of 300m euros, Mr President. In fact, they sell 'TRAINOSE' EUR 45 million, when the subsidies received by 'TRAINOSE', i.e. the private person, in the next four years by the government, may be SYRIZA and ANEL - is EUR 220 million. That's what your government has achieved. So, as this example probably does not honor you, it does not show that you are doing anything good, so it would be good not to talk about the fourteen airports, which you did not receive either 1 euro or the Greek one, which you did not get either 1 euro or 1 euro, or 1 euro, which you are only delaying, so that these investments can be implemented, nor today, because I am afraid - and the Minister did not respond - that this initiative, today's amendment, is not for Greece's benefit. There's something else he's hiding. I asked the Minister very clearly, and I repeat that if you think you can achieve something else with the agreement, through a new negotiation, through a dialogue from the investor, as he emerged from a competitive international procedure - because someone else did not come to give more, he gave most - if you believe that you can achieve more through dialogue, debate and negotiation, help you. But when you come and unilaterally change the conditions when you come and intervene in the work of the Independent Energy Regulatory Authority, this shows us another signal, that you have other plans from behind, dark. And I ask you. If you don't have any dark plans, then come here and say clearly now: "We have no other plan, cancel the sale of the use of the IPCC, we don't have a DESCF and DPRK combination plan, and we don't have a DPRK and DPRK final sale plan together as a company." You tell us today clearly and we will support you in your efforts to achieve something better today than a two-year agreement. We don't disagree about that. With regard to your attempt to help the people and support the weak, I am reading today - listen, Mr President - that people with a disability of over 80% and who had a 50% discount on HISPI, will at this time pay 100% of the HISPIA. They won't have a discount any more if they have revenues of 600 euros a year from interest in a bank. That is the protection of the weak. When the EKT is cut today, when the prices increase, as I said before, when they are increased by EUR 450 million - half a billion euro - it puts the state of the SYRIZA fraud alliance - ANEL deeply into the taxpayer and takes it 450 million, Mr President, by paying for petrol, diesel and heating oil more precisely. These people can't tell us here that they come and protect the weak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u240	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zaroulia, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u241	No, Mr. President. I just want to make an observation. It's embarrassing to see co-government and Census fighting about who sold this place first and best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u242	Thank you. Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u243	Mr President, when the allowance is cut by the unprotected children, when they cut the discount even by the unemployed or disabled people, much more when it comes to non-electrical buildings, it makes it unnecessary to make any comment. But, you know, there's a matter. The point is, say, they probably start thinking about it themselves. I heard earlier colleagues proud of the TAP, the IGB, the LNG of Alexandroupolis, the upgrade of Revithousa. Children of SYRIZA, you were fighting these when we implemented them and incorporated them into European energy programmes. And we have ensured not only their integration but also their funding. It's good that you actually land, but not to twist what we've just been living for eighteen months. Mr President, you will allow me to do so for the first time in Parliament. I would like to make a very personal comment. Andrea Lindsom, the Conservative Party candidate, when David Cameron resigned, said he would be a better Conservative Chief than Teresa May, because the first has three children, and the second has no one! Yesterday I made a very brief statement and said that I see a'silence of lambs' on behalf of SYRIZA in front of Mr Kammen's disgraceful post concerning gennamas, much more on the Day of Democracy, Ethos, on the day of dignity. Today this issue has been raised and I must say that I am going beyond the fact that a government and officials who want to appear as left-wing citizens do not condemn this misery, inhumanity, what goes beyond what any citizen can tolerate in everyday life. Because, unfortunately, this is the case, I have decided not to respond to the insults of the Minister because the previous President has not given me the floor. I will just say that at the end the quality of the speech of each political person also characterises the quality of his or her ethos and that much more applies when, unfortunately, the saying of the Older of the Republic applies in this case: 'Who is yelling and who has exulted? The gentleman saw it. Well, it's not worth answering." Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, too. Mr. Vardalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr President. Both today and in the committees with arguments we have been detailed in why the Communist Party of Greece will vote against this bill in principle. So I will not go into the issues we have already said, nor shall I refer to the dispute between SYRIZA and the New Democracy over which privatisations are better and more qualitative. Privatisation is done to find a profitable way out of accumulated funds and it is in no way for the benefit of the people. They're being made for the interests, the profitability of big capital. The directive we are debating is for the same reason. It is cut and sewn to the measures of the large groups active in this sector. I would like to focus on a number of amendments, to which I have not referred over time to my prototype. First of all, I should like to refer to Amendment 551, which concerns ensuring that employment credits are provided for assistants and educators. As far as we know, the Minister himself, in presenting her, said she would be hired around twenty-two and one thousand substitutes and uproots. But the teachers themselves with their collective bodies estimate that the gaps are twenty-five thousand, which means that we will still have gaps in the new school year. So this problem is not solved. Secondly, once again, there will be no recruitment of permanent teaching staff. For another year, in other words, the announcements that you made for twenty thousand permanent assignments, going for a walk, prove a scam and instead of permanent appointments, to cover the thousands of gaps that exist in education, primary and secondary, the government eliminates these gaps, either by compacting sections, either by singing the entire day or exorcising specialties from special education and others. The amendment tabled by a SYRIZA MEP, which concerns the quarries, finds us vertically opposed, because it gives us a time-limit for extension to new areas, for which it is not certain whether this authorisation would be granted if they were in the original licence. In our view, there is a 'photographic' provision which in any case favours the already exploiters of quarries. In general, the exploitation of quarries is being robbed with illegal extensions and instead of fines for these illegality or even withdrawal of licences, you legalise them. For the amendment concerning the IGM, you are only dealing with one of the issues raised by the workers. It is in a positive direction and we will vote on it. However, the rest of the issues need to be addressed in this direction. Finally, there has been a lot of talk about Articles 51 to 58 for the energy inspectors. Everyone referred to this issue. In our opinion, what are you doing? Promote certification systems. A degree-professional degree is released, i.e. what is provided for in the Bologna Treaty. This is a new way of breaking down professional rights by categorizing. That is why we are opposed to these provisions of the articles. Finally, Minister, we have tabled an amendment concerning cleanliness workers mainly in the OTAs. The problem with equivalent workers in public and private law shall be solved by a prior provision in a previous article. The workers at the Otta then were excluded. What are we going to tell these people now? Did you work weekends, nights, and your money goes for a walk? You did not accept the amendment. In any case, this issue must be settled immediately and workers must take their money. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr. Vardalis. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the feeling that the debate here today in plenary and in committees over the last few days has shown that the country is still at its very beginning, unfortunately, in terms of exploiting its energy wealth. The country is very back, years back, in the way it will structure the quarry map of the country, so that the potential investors - but especially the residents and users of the Greek environment - who are developing what kind of activity - quarrying, mine, mine - on which terms and consequences. We see that by incorporating the European directive we are taking a good step forward in the prevention of accidents and in the safety and hygiene of work in offshore drilling. We in Potami believe that, as I have said in my speech, the country must, as I have said, take this spiritual path, balance between protecting its natural environment, which is a wealth of great value and, of course, its needs for the exploitation of hydrocarbons, which is an extremely delicate issue. I told you about the AOZ proclamation, which must be made the first step. It is a complex issue and I think that there are no micro-participatory contradictions in this kind of issue. As I mentioned extensively in the case of Norway, so I would like in forty years - as Norway is about forty years ahead of us in exploiting the mineral of wealth - the Norwegian Members in their respective chambers mentioning Greece as an example to be imitated. However, our view - and my own personal and the river - is that the country must definitely enter a orbit of total decommissioning from fossil fuels. We have the greatest sunshine as a country than any other Mediterranean. We have the greatest wind intensity - and we are therefore - of any other Mediterranean country. We have all those components, which can lead us to sustainable development and the exploitation of natural wealth without side effects. I will make two more comments, Mr President, and I shall conclude. It is about privatisation - I would say - politically naive to think the SYRIZA Government, which implements the earlier privatisations and the ones that will come, that the world is opposed to it. No, Minister, people want privatizations. He wants them because he's full of a bad public, flattered, a public that takes away powers from healthy entrepreneurship. The world expects privatisation according to European standards, with open rules, with the same and equal opportunities for all. In conclusion, Mr President, I did not want to take up Mr Kammenos's post, the insulting, the very degrading, I would say, for the same post and not for the person he has offended. However, I would say that we should have too much increased reflexes, particularly the government, and take a stand in this Chamber when there are racist, homophobic, anti-Semitism, xenophobic comments and how much more than someone who is co-government and leader of a party. I expect Mr Skourletis, who does not chew his words, to tell us whether he agrees to be at the same level of responsibility as Mr Kammenos for his post. Does he express you as a personality? Simple as that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u248	Thank you too, Mr. Amyras. Mr. Megamystakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u249	In view of the committees, and today in plenary, I have seen that most of them agree with the main points of the bill. All I want to say in my denture - and I will be very brief - is that I would like more clarification and more details about the plan and programming for the TECF amendment. I would like to explain our attitude to this amendment. That is why I also took the floor. We will vote in favour of this amendment in good faith, believing that you may be able to achieve the best for Greece this time, as we do not in any way want to burden the Greek households, especially the Greek industries and craft industries, which are so burdened, while at the same time trying to attract foreign investments that will solve the unemployment problem. Hopefully you will handle all the parameters correctly, so that we have the best result for the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister has the floor to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr President. I think that, apart from the general acceptance of this directive incorporating national law, too much has been said that actually shows a different conception of crucial issues. Honestly, I understand why you cannot understand - above all, I am addressing the New Democracy side - why we support a model that wants to maintain public control on the networks and consider the bilinguality of what we defend, that is, the IPTO model in relation to the IPTO model. This privatization you know that it was under way and we told all tons that we would respect it. That is why it was included in the last August's agreement. However, I repeat that if we could turn the clock of time back, we would not be going to privatise infrastructures like this, in monopolistic situations, that is to say, such as the main networks in the country. And I think that's exactly what it shows a different perception of things. Finally, things cannot be heard that are unstable. The price was 400 million. The 180 million will go to the Greek public. The rest will go to DEPA. So if there is one question, if 180 million are not collected. But the question is this. Are you still insisting that we interfere with the terms of the competition? Because in this way you are currently weakening an argument and an attempt first of all by the Energy Regulatory Authority, which is responsible for setting prices and giving arguments to 'SOCAR'. Act as a porte parole of Azeri ‘SOCAR’. And the question is, why? Have you been tied to any ties of interest with this privatisation? If not as a party, any of you? I don't expect an answer. Rhetoric is the shape. But a lot sounds. In any case, as I have told you, without interfering with the conditions of privatisation and at the instigation of the IPCC, we come to defend what we think is right, which is domestic production and Greek households. And don't play with numbers saying it's a little euro, looking at microconsumptions. See the many tens of thousands of euros when it comes to industrial consumers, where the burden can in some cases reach 7%. That is why - I repeat - you will not find a single industrial producer who agrees with your argument today. You will have seen it from what is said on the various sites, but also from the public positions of some of them. Most of all, however, in support of this amendment - and the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has told you before - you do not understand that you are nurtured the gas market and the dynamics of the DEPA, which is called on to start, to support the energy plans for the IGB and for the floating of Alexandroupolis. And why are you doing this? On the one hand, for reasons of opposition, and on the other hand - and this is the most negative of you, and that applies to the Democratic Reconciliation - solidate any strategic vision for this country. You give a fight of retreats, you have a denial and all you do is cry for the good old days, saying "persistent majesty and remembering them." Except these grandeurs are paid today by the Greek people! Honestly, you cannot give up, when we implement the framework of an agreement that we adopted together last August, not with our own responsibilities for where the country was driven, but mainly through the course of the bankruptcy of the Greek economy that you followed over all these years, when you had given the world to understand that there is a strong Greece. Except that this powerful Greece undermined the future of the next generations, when you had made entrepreneurship identical with the privileged relationships, when you had shaped interactive relationships. And that is why you are screaming now, at the moment that there is a new, refining wind in the media area, for the very end of democracy, which must function, enlarge and deepen in this place. But something was said about the Squirrels, and you asked us to do self-criticism. Do we make self-criticism about what? Because we are consistently defending a three-way system which says 'public interest, protection of the environment and protection of jobs and legality'? That's exactly what's happening in the case of the Squirrels. That is why you cannot understand that in those cases - where studies were presented and they were legitimate, we adopted them - where we see that there are problems, will find us against them. This is the message that we are sending for investment in Greece: that there are rules, legality and these must be respected by all, domestic and foreign investors. Unless your standards are other, they concern standard Asian, mainly African countries. However, this still shows the lack of all this strategic background that I have said before that it now characterizes you. Finally, there have been repeated references to Mr Kammenos's post. I think that everyone, when making a statement of this kind, a report or a post, also assumes the responsibility of what they say and describe it to some extent. I wouldn't do anything like this at all. I think it's unfortunate. However, from the way you went to inoculate this issue in today's debate, I do not see so much sensitivity. Other kinds of purposes, I see, very small and very humble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is adjourned: ‘The framework for safety in offshore hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation, incorporation of Directive 2013/30/EU, amendment of the n.e.c. 148/2009 and other provisions’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u253	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u254	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u255	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u256	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u257	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u258	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u259	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u260	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u261	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Statement for safety in offshore hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation operations, incorporation of Directive 2013/30/EU, amendment of the d.d. 148/2009 and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in principle. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u262	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u263	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u264	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u265	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u266	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u267	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u268	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u269	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u270	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u271	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u272	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u273	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u274	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u275	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u276	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u277	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u278	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u279	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u280	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u281	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u282	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u283	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u284	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u285	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u286	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u287	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u288	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u289	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u290	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u291	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u292	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u293	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u294	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u295	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u296	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u297	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u298	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u299	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u300	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u301	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u302	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u303	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u304	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u305	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u306	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u307	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u308	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u309	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u310	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u311	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u312	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u313	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u314	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u315	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u316	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u317	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u318	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u319	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u320	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u321	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u322	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u323	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u324	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u325	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u326	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u327	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u328	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u329	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u330	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u331	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u332	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u333	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u334	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u335	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u336	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u337	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u338	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u339	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u340	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u341	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u342	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u343	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u344	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u345	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u346	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u347	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u348	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u349	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u350	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u351	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u352	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u353	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u354	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u355	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u356	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u357	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u358	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u359	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u360	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 12 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u361	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u362	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u363	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u364	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u365	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u366	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u367	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u368	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u369	Article 12 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u370	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u371	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u372	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u373	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u374	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u375	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u376	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u377	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u378	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u379	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u380	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u381	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u382	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u383	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u384	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u385	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u386	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u387	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u388	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u389	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u390	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u391	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u392	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u393	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u394	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u395	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u396	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u397	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u398	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u399	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u400	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u401	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u402	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u403	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u404	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u405	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u406	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u407	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u408	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u409	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u410	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u411	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u412	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u413	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u414	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u415	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u416	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u417	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u418	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u419	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u420	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u421	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u422	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u423	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u424	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u425	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u426	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u427	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u428	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u429	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u430	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u431	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u432	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u433	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u434	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u435	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u436	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u437	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u438	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u439	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u440	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u441	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u442	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u443	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u445	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u446	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u447	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u448	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u449	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u450	Article 21 was therefore accepted, as it is majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u451	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u452	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u453	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u454	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u455	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u456	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u457	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u458	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u459	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u460	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u461	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u462	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u463	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u464	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u465	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u466	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u467	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u468	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u469	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u470	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u471	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u472	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u473	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u474	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u475	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u476	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u477	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u478	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u479	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u480	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u481	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u482	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u483	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u484	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u485	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u486	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u487	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u488	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u489	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u490	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u491	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u492	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u493	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u494	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u495	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u496	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u497	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u498	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u499	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u500	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u501	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u502	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u503	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u504	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u505	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u506	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u507	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u508	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u509	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u510	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u511	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u512	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u513	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u514	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u515	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u517	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u518	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u519	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u520	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u521	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u522	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u523	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u524	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u525	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u526	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u527	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u528	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u529	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u530	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u531	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u532	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u533	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u534	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u535	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u536	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u537	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u538	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u539	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u540	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u541	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u542	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u544	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u545	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u546	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u547	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u548	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u549	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u550	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u551	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u552	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u553	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u554	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u555	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u556	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u557	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u558	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u559	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u560	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u561	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u562	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u563	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u564	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u565	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u566	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u567	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u568	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u569	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u570	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u571	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u572	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u573	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u574	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u575	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u576	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u577	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u578	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u579	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u580	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u581	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u582	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u583	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u584	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u585	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u586	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u587	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u588	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u589	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u590	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u591	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u592	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u593	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u594	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u595	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u596	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u597	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u598	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u599	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u600	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u601	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u602	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u603	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u604	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u605	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u606	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u607	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u608	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u609	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u610	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u611	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u612	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u613	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u614	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u615	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u616	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u617	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u618	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u619	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u620	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u621	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 41 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u622	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u623	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u624	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u625	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u626	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u627	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u628	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u629	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u630	Article 41 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u631	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u632	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u633	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u634	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u635	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u636	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u637	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u638	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u639	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u640	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u641	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u642	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u643	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u644	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u645	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u646	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u647	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u648	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u649	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u650	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u651	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u652	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u653	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u654	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u655	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u656	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u657	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u658	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u659	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u660	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u661	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u662	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u663	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u664	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u665	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u666	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u667	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u668	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u669	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u670	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u671	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u672	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u673	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u674	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u675	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u676	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u677	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u678	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u679	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u680	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u681	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u682	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u683	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u684	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u685	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u686	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u687	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u688	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u689	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u690	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u691	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u692	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u693	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u694	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u695	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u696	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u697	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u698	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u699	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u700	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u701	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u702	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u703	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u704	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u705	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u706	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u707	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u708	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u709	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u710	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u711	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as such, by a majority. Will Rule 51 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u712	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u713	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u714	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u715	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u716	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u717	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u718	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u719	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u720	Article 51 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 52 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u721	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u722	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u723	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u724	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u725	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u726	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u727	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u728	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u729	Article 52 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u730	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u731	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u732	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u733	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u734	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u735	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u736	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u737	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u738	Article 53 was therefore accepted as such by a majority. Will Rule 54 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u739	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u740	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u741	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u742	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u743	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u744	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u745	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u746	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u747	Article 54 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u748	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u749	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u750	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u751	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u752	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u753	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u754	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u755	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u756	Article 55 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u757	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u758	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u759	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u760	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u761	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u762	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u763	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u764	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u765	Article 56 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u766	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u767	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u768	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u769	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u770	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u771	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u772	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u773	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u774	Article 57 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u775	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u776	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u777	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u778	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u779	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u780	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u781	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u782	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u783	Article 58 was therefore accepted as such by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u784	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u785	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u786	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u787	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u788	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u789	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u790	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u791	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u792	Article 59 was therefore accepted as such by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 60 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u793	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u794	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u795	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u796	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u797	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u798	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u799	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u800	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u801	Article 60 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 61 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u802	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u803	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u804	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u805	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u806	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u807	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u808	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u809	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u810	Article 61 was therefore accepted as such by a majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u811	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u812	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u813	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u814	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u816	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u817	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u818	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u819	Article 62 was therefore accepted as such by a majority. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number of 540 and a special 37, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u820	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u821	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u822	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u823	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u824	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u825	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u826	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u827	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u828	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 540 and a special 37 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 572 and a special 48?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u829	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u830	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u832	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u833	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u834	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u835	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u836	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u837	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 572 and a special 48 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 576 and a specialist of 50?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u838	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u839	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u840	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u841	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u842	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u843	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u844	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u845	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u846	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 576 and a specialist of 50 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 580 and a special number 51 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u847	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u848	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u849	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u850	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u851	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u852	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u853	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u854	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u855	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 580 and a special number 51 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 582 and a special number 52 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u856	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u857	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u858	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u859	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u860	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u861	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u862	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u863	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u864	So the amendment under general number 582 and a special 52 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 547 and a special number of 40?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u865	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u866	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u867	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u868	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u869	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u870	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u871	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u872	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u873	Therefore, the amendment of a general number of 547 and a specialist of 40 has been accepted as it stands and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 573 and a special number 49?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u874	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u875	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u876	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u877	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u878	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u879	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u880	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u881	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u882	Therefore, the amendment under general number 573 and a special 49 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u883	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u884	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u885	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u886	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u887	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u888	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u889	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u890	Therefore, a majority of the members of the Court of First Instance have been accepted by the Court of First Instance. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u891	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u892	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u893	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u894	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u895	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u896	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u897	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u898	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u899	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Survey on safety in offshore hydrocarbons research and exploitation operations, incorporation of Directive 2013/30/EU, amendment of Directive 2013/30/EU. 148/2009 and other provisions’, a majority, was adopted, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u900	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u901	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-25-S1-commons.u902	With the consent of the House at 19.26' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 26 July 2016 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: discussion and decision, in accordance with Articles 68(2) of the Constitution and 144 et seq. the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, on the proposal put forward by the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Members of his party, on the recommendation of a Committee of Inquiry, on the investigation of the reasons for the imposition of bank holidays and capital restrictions, the signing of the third Memorandum and the need for a new recapitalisation of credit institutions, in accordance with the special agenda.
