ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to the Parliament's authorisation from 12-2-2016, the minutes of its PRACTICE sessions were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau on Friday 12 February 2016, with regard to the adoption of the draft law as a whole: (a) the Act of 24.12.2015 of the Legislation of the Legislation of the Ministries of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Maritime and Island Policy, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Rural Development and Food and Finance (A'182), and (b) the Act of Legislation of the Ministries of Economic Affairs, Education and Religious Affairs, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Defence (A'182), and (b) of 30.12.2015.]] I would like to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Social Affairs, the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice and the Standing Committee on Educational Affairs present their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Health: 'Measures to accelerate the work of government and other provisions'. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The third question will be discussed with number 515/9-2-2016 by the Member of Parliament for Elias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Finance on the tax burdens of farmers. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Treasury Alexiadis. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject is well known, and it is particularly topical because farmers are on the way too. And you will do well - I am not talking about you personally, I am referring to the government - not to mock them. Because Mr Katrugalos, who has angered them with his proposals to triple the contributions, says that one ten per month will be charged, because he wants to make them poor under 8 000 euros. He does not accept that farmers may have incomes. This morning a congress of government officials - whom I do not wish to name - said that the farmers have no requests, another said they do not know what they want and so on. The financial staff have said in the past that they are also taxmen. The demands are very specific: farmers are asking for the autonomy of the OGA - what has come to you to abolish the OGA you have not explained to us, and much more as far as you are concerned, Minister, given that VAT has increased in all agricultural supplies by ten points, from 13% to 23%. We also have an increase in the advance payment, we have abolished the refund of the excise duty on oil, we have a tax on wine of EUR 0.20, which amounts to the price of raw materials, and we also have the prospect of an increase in tax rates. So farmers are asking for measures to prevent this over-taxation - coupled with the increase in insurance contributions - the nipple that will affect primary production and the rural economy, and will lead to thousands of jobs coming out of young farmers and farmers and will lead to the closure of rural households. We are waiting for your answers to these questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u3	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, Mr Ephremidis, I thought that the debate on Friday had answered all these political questions. I understand, however, the political reasons why a philology should be reintroduced on matters which are not really based. If we look at the data, what laws and papers say, we will see that what you describe, Mr Papoutsis, does not correspond to reality. Of course, you are absolutely right in your second question. The government is really looking for ways of tax relief for farmers, incentives. The government is trying, especially to farmers and generally to society, towards a fair and proportionate distribution of tax burdens, as laid down in our Constitution and not towards the direction of fiscal policy, which you have voted on over the last few years. However, it seems that Friday's arguments have not convinced you or who is responsible for this whole situation. Because you think that for everything that is happening in the field of agricultural policy, responsibility is in one year's coexistence of SYRIZA - ANEL, and that there is no responsibility for the past and you have recourse to the laudable tactics to blame the government for what it does in one year - which we had to deal with all that we had to face - and not to talk about your tragic responsibilities in the field of agricultural policy over the past few years. To make it clear, we never said, none of the financial staff - and bring me the statement here - that they are tax-free farmers. We stressed the real problems. We said certain numbers. Do not try to create conditions of social automation or targeting social strata, which, with great mastism, did you and the media that supported your governments and now hitting our own, trying to put some people who are escalating - largely on fair demands - against other charges. But as far as your question is concerned, I do not understand the amnesia logic, because here you seem to forget what you did a few months ago. You are telling us, for example, about the increase in VAT on agricultural supplies. Did you vote for Mr.4334? Because that's where that was predicted. You're telling us about the wine tax. May I remind you that the wine tax came in to find the equivalent and to remove the VAT on the education imposed by Laws 4334 and 4336, which you also voted on? You are telling us about the abolition of the excise duty on oil. May I remind you that it was voted on with Mr.4336, which you voted on too? Finally, because there is a lot of talk about the issue of the taxation of farmers, I would like to ask: are you happy and happy about what has happened so far in the field of taxation? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in seconds. You refer to your question - and you said it Friday - by blaming us that we do not know how to read and we do not know what was the case with regard to the taxation of subsidies. I did not have the opportunity to speak on Friday to answer these issues. I've got Mr. 4172 here. So can you tell me where the subsidies were intended to be taxed? Because to Law No 4172, which I have here with its three changes, subsidies were within the taxable amount. But I'm waiting for the answers to your dentistry about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u5	Please, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u6	Do you understand, Mr President, that instead of answering our questions, the Minister asks us as if we are ruling? How can I call that? It is a good example, Mr Alexiadis and honourable Ministers, but you must understand that you have asked for the people's vote to be governed, and after you have made fun of them, after you have given them the thirteenth pension, after you have given them a duty-free 12 000, after you have given them rocked rabbits, you are now loading them in the past. Well, you rule and you need to solve the problems. And problems are very simple. Minister, under Law 4172/13, the calculation of income on the basis of the revenue book has been applied for the first time at a rate of 13% and you fought this law, not for the first time, not for the first time, which you belong to and which you are serving. This law nowhere says that agricultural subsidies are taxed. Article 21 states that for the calculation of agricultural income, any revenue resulting from production is calculated. Mrs Valavani then came, with the well-known amendment to tax subsidies of over EUR 12 000. So if you find me, Mr. 4172, that subsidies are taxed, I will buy you at the best shop, not at the buds you are accusing of going to farmers. In the buddies the last time I went, it was when Mr. Tsipras and I went with Mr. Kammenos after your victory in the election. Secondly, you told me about the wine tax. The wine tax came in to abolish the education equivalent. Who put VAT on education, Minister? You put it yourself. See what Commissioner Moscovisi answered the question Kali - Androulakis about the excise duty on wine. He said it was your choice. You're telling me about the abolition of excise duty on oil. Good. We've done away with him. The request, which was pre-worked at the Ministry, was the oil card to the professional farmer. Will you give it to me? Now we're going to VAT. What have we voted for, Minister? We have voted on the reform of the VAT Code. We did not vote to increase all the farm supplies by ten points. According to my calculations, more than 500 million left the farmers' pockets due to the increase in coefficients. And farmers in their memorandum, which they gave today to the Prime Minister and asking for an answer, say they paid about 400 million more in 2014 because of the application of Law 4172/2013 with this rate, with 13%. Furthermore, Minister, since it is your responsibility, farmers cannot deduct from the incomes, which are taxed with 26%. In other words, the share of women and their two children, who are employed, will be taxed with 26% as if they were business and taxed on the same scale. You know that very well. So, for all these requests, which are simply, do you have an answer, except your reference to the responsibilities of the past? Of course, if you want to talk about the responsibilities of the past and because there are today farmers living who produce and make our country proud and contribute to the balance of trade and talk about it. What is present in the agricultural sector was our job, and above all the farmers, who now because they are alive, claim not to die. So give specific answers, if you can, to the specific requests.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kutsuko, you're not honoring Elia's cultural centers, are you? Mr Alexiadis, Deputy Minister for Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u8	I waited in the three minutes and forty-five seconds for you to answer that. You didn't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u9	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u10	You have not answered, because I understand the impossibility of saying what is stated in the question...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, I have an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have a question after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u13	For what you're talking about in your question about n.4172... [[Noise in the Chamber]] There are some parasites in the Chamber, Mr President, we have to get used to them, unfortunately. I understand about L.4172 that you are unable to answer. In other words, Mr Kutsuko, in your opinion, because we are being heard at the moment by our ex-courts, economists, accountants, there was...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u14	You can read it yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u15	I challenged you to read it and you didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u16	All right, read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u17	I have it here, and I'll read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u18	Read about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u19	Was there, then, at Law 4172 an invisible provision that said from 12,000 or more, not taxed and came and taxed it? There was nowhere like that. You did not anticipate such a thing and Mr.4328/2015 came in and specifically provides for the exemption of subsidies of up to EUR 12 000. So what you're saying is not true. With regard to the criticism you have made, however, I would remind you of the following: reimbursement of excise duty - it is Law 4336 - an increase in the VAT rate - it is the von Wogau. 4336-, the increase in the advance payment of income tax - is v. 4336-, tax rate from 13% to 20% and 26% - is L.4336. For forgetting, Law 4334 was voted by two hundred twenty-nine MPs and Law 4336 by two hundred twenty-one. And you come now and blame us for being responsible for ruling, implementing the agreement and trying to guarantee farmers the best tax regime. Of course, as you said before - you confirmed - everything in the field of farmers was paradise by January 2015 and from February 2015, hell began for farmers. I, too, grew up in a village, have too many farmers' friends all over Greece, that's not how it is. And farmers' problems are not last year, they are over time. However, since I have always learned to speak with figures, in the Minutes of this House I submit to the minutes of the House its original wording, and as has been the case until now for the full information to be given, the laws that you have voted and you denounced today and which concern the taxation of farmers, the circular for which we have not been abandoned - it is POL 1116/10-6-2015, because you say that we are not clarifying the taxation of farmers, but we are clarifying them precisely - and all the documents of the General Secretariat for Public Revenue, with which we are fully answering the questions of your question and putting them before us to be fully informed. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Trif Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm saying that for the last time. It is not our political choice for our tax policy, it is a political necessity and we do everything we can to avoid tax evasion, smuggling, corruption, with results now, but at some point you must stop this inexpensive criticism. Finally make suggestions and, above all, explain where you led the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The fifth question will be discussed under number 523/9-2-2016, first question by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kossilis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the reduction of the prices of compensation for PV parks. Mr. Red has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you well know, the reduction of the electricity sales prices, including PV parks, which were agreed and guaranteed by contracts concluded and which ensured a guaranteed profitability and financial investment, was unilaterally and mandatory. These reductions were reprimanded by the first government that critical parameters such as time when the units were set up and the cost of manufacturing the PV parks were taken into account. It is clear, however, that the method of calculating the prices of the new deal was not based on reasons of public interest. In view of all this, enterprises and natural persons are already on the verge of economic catastrophe. We have had an unnecessarily, later legislative intervention by means of legislative intervention at the principle of freedom of contracts. In view of all this, Mr Minister, you are asking: do you intend to review the method of calculating the reductions in the original guaranteed prices of PV parks?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u22	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. You know that one of the government's key strategic choices is to encourage the penetration of renewable energy sources. This is our choice and is a strategic option for Europe as a whole, so there are specific commitments so that energy produced and consumed from renewable energy sources has reached 20% in 2020. So on the basis of this general framework and these general guidelines we are moving. Of course, in your question you describe situations which are real. For there were investors who put their money through specific contracts and specific price guarantees. No one, of course, at the time when this framework was forming, thought who would pay the cost of this choice. All this, of course, is not a paradoxical one - to refer to something that has just been said in another question - is a great political responsibility and a great deal of urgency on how to develop renewable energy sources in our country, by the previous governments. Is there a matter of state solvency against investors? Of course there is. But we are always in a dilemma. Encouraging the specific forms of energy, the RES, and in particular the PVC, should be in such a way that ultimately the guaranteed prices do not lead to a burden on the whole. Here we have reached a point where there should be changes, because this account for renewable energy was a deficit. There is therefore a need to reconstruct the framework for renewable energy, so that we can correct the distortions that existed in the previous period. For there has been a sloppyness, a prudence, which has produced correspondingly very great distortions. I would like to say to you that - and it has happened with the question we are debating today - there has been a meeting with the Ministry of Finance with the Banks Union to see the other issue you raise in relation to the high interest rates that these people have borrowed in PVs, etc. Our direction is to have an agreement to reduce these interest rates. However, as far as the general context is concerned, I would like to inform you that the Ministry is working - and this process is in its final phase - a new framework for renewable energy sources as a whole. This will apply from 1-1-2016 and will enable those who are currently in the old system of guaranteed prices or stay on it or move to the new one. I think we'll have a chance to discuss this in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u25	I wouldn't say sloppy, but something much heavier. There are also criminal responsibilities, because when you encourage investors to enter into large loans, to enter into loan contracts, money is disbursed, and after 2014 you are unilaterally legislating on the price and the loan remains as it stands, and of course investors would not move on in this move. Not just have to give a reason, but explain why they did it. Were there any specific reasons? And now we're coming out to wipe out the fire that others lighted. Therefore, Minister, the question is specific. I am pleased that there will be a new framework, but if possible in the old cases, those who had been borrowed, have a better interest rate and a settlement, and this will only be through the Greek Banks Union. What is the new element these people can recognize? Will they have a better way of dealing with the banks or through the new framework can they further reduce the damage?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u26	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u27	I would like to say that the new framework is moving on the basis of the 2014-2020 guidelines adopted by the European Union as a whole. This will provide for us to go from the guaranteed prices scheme, feed in tarif, feed in premium, so that there is a rationalisation and not to have all this situation which you have mentioned, which has indeed led - in a first phase - to quite profitable places, but very soon it seemed to be unrealistic. It was something that was cancerous and, in the end, the continuation of those guaranteed prices would surely lead to a total burden on consumers. So this is about the new framework, from now on, which will enter into force. The second point, which I said before and concerning the banks, is that we are pressing for a reduction in interest rates on loans already granted. And it is very reasonable to note that these were given to other times with other values, other guaranteed prices that the state unilaterally reduced, as we said before, its insolvency. Banks should therefore also adapt to this reality that everything has changed. So the least thing that needs to be done at the moment is to reduce the cost of serving these loans. From that point on, the Ministry's plans are to provide new opportunities for the necessary penetration of the RES, especially in the form of the investments that you will be able to offset the power consumption you have with the one you produce. We're talking about small photovoltaics. There is an attempt to extend this to both rural areas and in such a way that it does not relate to a single clock. So, what do I mean? The agricultural land is not always concentrated, it is not uniform. So a farmer has a plot here, and he may have several miles away. So until now, you couldn't use this power from photovoltaics, which you may have placed, and for all your land through what we call net metering, through this clearing process. This is a regulation which will be provided - and it will be quite favourable for farmers - in the new context which, as I said, we will announce in the next few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, too. The sixth Question No 408/18-1-2016, by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the progress of the projects to make use of the former airport of Greece, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, I would ask the floor, because the Minister is not coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u30	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, I have lost the weeks that I have come here and will continue to come that Mr Chakalotos does not appear in the House to answer for the investment concerning the Greek. And we all say we need investments! There are studies that give tens of thousands of...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u32	What kind of procedure is this, Mr President? It's none of our business, I imagine, that's our question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u33	Minister, as a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u34	Continue, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u35	If it's not about him as a government... I hope they're all in the government together. Mr President, I would like to ask you about the fact that Mr Tsakalotos has been on your face for ten weeks - if I count correctly - spits Parliament and does not appear. It's been ten weeks! It's not once, twice, three times. I would like to ask you - because you participate in the majority, although you are the President and you represent us all - what I have to do as a Member - and I would like to ask you an answer - for the Minister of Finance to answer me. Tell me what I have to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u36	First of all, I wish to wish you for the eleventh week to be your lucky one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u38	Secondly, I support the request for the question to be answered. As you know, however, the Minister of Finance may also be abroad.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u39	It's not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u40	I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, at ten times there is no one to come...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u42	I plead for your request.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u43	I'm not asking for anything else. I expect to see what you do next time you're in the Chair and Mr. Chakalotos won't be here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u44	I think my wish will be effective! The first under number 519/9-2-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gerasimios Balaoura to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the cost of using electronic means of payment, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The second question under number 512/9-2-2016 of the New Democracy MP Argolidas Mr.Ioannis Andrianos will be discussed with the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the establishment and operation of a Special Professional High School in Argolida. Mr. Andrian has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the topical question we are debating today concerns the urgent question of the establishment and operation of a Special Professional School in Argolida as a natural continuation of the Special Professional School which is already in operation and of course of the Special Elementary School that operates. It is therefore a demand that all children in the region be given the status of education, respecting the educational needs of each student. It is therefore a fundamental right for children who are now, without alternative, forced to withdraw from the educational process, with significant implications for their later professional and social life, their integration into society as a whole and their mental health. I would like to point out that in my previous speech in connection with parliamentary scrutiny, the answers I have received - I quote self-evidently - have said: 'No request for the establishment of a Special Professional High School in Argolida' has been made. And this despite the detailed documentation I quote in my 1687 question on 4 December, as well as the assurance of your own adviser, Mr Cassianou, at his meeting with representatives of the coordinating committee of parents and guardians, that the dossier submitted is mature and complete. And I must stress that it is rather problematic for the Ministry to answer two successive questions with the same wording - they are photocopies, Mr Minister - that the request has not been lodged, while it is clear that a request has been filed and that the dossier is complete. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. It's important.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u46	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u47	I am, of course, making the request for the Association of Parents and Princess of the Disciples of the Special Occupational Gymnasium of Argolida. Also, document and resolution by ELME Argolidas, KEDY Argolidas documents on the need to establish lyric classes at the professional Gymnasium Argolidas, documents by the Regional Education Department of the Peloponnese to the Ministry of Education (the Department of Special Education) with a positive recommendation for the establishment of lycheaeological classes at the professional Gymnasium of Argolida, the two responses from the Ministry of Education in the question and the report I submitted - one answer is a photocopy of the other - and even, a resolution from the Municipality Council of Nafplioles and also a resolution from the Regional Council of the Peloponnese. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Andrianos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I call on you, Minister, after today's debate to resolve this issue, since you yourself are now taking this process, and to overcome all these bureaucratic needs, because the need really is enormous, it is imperative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u48	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u49	Colleague, the request for the establishment and operation of a Special Professional High School in Argolida is mature and has been launched. I repeat, it's mature and it's started. There was even a meeting of the Special Gymnasium Parents Association with representatives of the Ministry, with the advisor Mr. Cassiano, to whom you have already referred. As you know, the chronological order of the actions of the administration, for which you have been informed, is as follows. The Secondary Education Argolis at the end of July 15 made a document at the Regional Department of Primary and Secondary Education of the Peloponnese, which called for the establishment, operation and adaptation of special education classes at the existing Special Gymnasium of Argolis. At the end of the 1915s the Regional Directorate of Peloponnese, by means of a document, is positively recommended and sends the file to the Ministry's competent Office, but it was not complete. This is not bureaucracy, it is necessary legality. As the Directorate responsible for Special Education and Education has informed you in writing of the questions you have submitted, the dossier has recently been completed and examined. The evaluation of the file by the Special Appeal Directorate, such as the formal conditions, concluded that the required legislative framework does not exist. I repeat that the request was to upgrade the existing special high school by attaching it to lyric classes. Therefore, according to and according to Mr. 4186/2013, we should proceed to the establishment of a Special Professional High School. That is why a number of administrative acts are required, a Circular to call for proposals for the establishment of special education units, a joint ministerial decision on skills in guidance groups and the creation of timetables. All of this has been launched and I hope that a fair and mature one - I repeat - will soon be implemented on a request for special treatment in Argolida. Finally, I would like to inform you, Mr Colleague, and, through you, the National Representation and the citizens concerned, that we have made progress in other regulations facilitating vocational training. One of these is to allow children over eighteen years of age who have been assessed as disabled or with special educational needs to be entitled to do so, so they have the right to seek out their possibilities to monitor and monitor structures belonging to general education, such as the PES and the PES. Finally, during this period, we are working to establish vocational education through the establishment of IEKs for Special Education and Education, through the organization of apprenticeships and school cooperatives. The establishment of school cooperatives also extends to primary, secondary and vocational education schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Adriane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u51	It is very good that the Minister has announced here in Parliament that the work is mature, that the dossier is now complete and that the implementation and creation of the specific educational institution, the Special Professional High School in Argolida, will proceed. Minister, this is an urgent need. You recognized her. I believe from what you have said that it will certainly be implemented. Of course, instead of using the verb 'I hope', I would like you to express this route more confidently. I believe, however, that you have said here in plenary, in reply to my question, that the work is mature and will be completed, that it is a commitment that you will implement, because I think, I am sure and I believe that you have sensitivities especially in these matters, such as children with special competences, which we must give them the opportunity to be able to integrate them, to integrate them, but also to have some education and not to remain in their homes. I would like you to visit Argolida and see the very good work done at the Special Elementary School and the Special High School. The fact that they come from other prefectures and from other regions of the Peloponnese to stay in Argolida, to take their children to these special schools, is something that makes us even more sensitive, so that we can quickly implement this necessary structure. So I believe, Minister, in your words, that you will set a timeframe so that this work can be done soon, because it really needs society, and that is what these children need. I would also like to say that the answers given to us in writing are good - and I mentioned two written answers that have been given to me, and I also tabled them in the Minutes - that they should not be photocopies, that is to say, that they should not be one response similar to the other. I have also asked to answer, but the question has not been answered about the Department of Theatre Studies, about the statements made by Mr Peglerin, who may be mistaken - I don't believe falsely - has been referred to two LPA members, while he has six LPA members and he has a total of six...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u52	For what department?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u53	For the Department of Theatrical Studies in Nafplio. I have asked you a question, which could not be a timely question, but because it has not been answered, I have had to ask you and put it as a timely question, to discuss it here in Parliament, because I think that some things need to be solved and structures that work successfully not to be broken down. I believe that the Department of Theatre Studies in Nafplio is such a structure that operates so far and has potential to continue, if we all support it, with great success. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u54	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u55	Mr Colleagues, we are indeed making a great effort to upgrade the special treatment. They are not children of a lower god, children in special schools. And in the recruitment we are going to do this year or whenever, as soon as possible, we will seek to apply the rule, to start with the recruitment of teachers to special education, which was provided for in the legislation, but has never been implemented so far. With regard to the theme of the Department of Theatreology in Nafplio, I would like to say that for this department, as for all the university departments, whether they are HEIs or are TEIs, there is none, but no particular thought of their reformation or their association. There's no thought for - as it's called - "ATHENA" number 3. All these issues come to their time, while the debate on the spatial distribution of higher education is not at present. The main thing is to upgrade existing education rather than shrink the structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u56	I would like to inform the House that the fourth question under number 525/9-2-2016, first question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Ioannis Delis, to the Minister for Health, on the problems of operating the Centre for the Health of Parannesti in the Regional Unit of Drama, is not being discussed because the Minister responsible, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, is on the outside, particularly in Brussels. The sixth question under number 506/8-2-2016, first question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Georgios Katsiantonis, concerning the maintenance of radiological equipment and the proper functioning of the Larissa Hospital, is not discussed due to the impediment of the honourable Member. The third question will be discussed with number 509/9-2-2016, first question by the MP Iraklios of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR V.K. Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the need to meet the needs of educational staff in primary school. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Let me point out the fact that Mr Philis not only comes to answer, but with the debate on the previous question he has shown that he is a parliamentary minister, unlike the extra-parliamentary Mr Alexiadis previously, who came to ask Members instead of giving answers. Minister, despite the actions that have been taken by the Ministry with a relatively delay, due to the developments that were taking place - in the summer, I pay tribute to them - i.e. reshaping, elections, etc., continue to exist - and we are now in the second half of the year - considerable gaps in primary education, but also in the special education units, which you have already pointed out very well that they are of great importance and are a qualitative indicator showing whether a country is looking after the people in need. I would like to present to you, from my own research, exactly the gaps that exist. These gaps relate to thirty one teacher in morning sections - and I will submit to you a document referring to which sections are schools from all over the prefecture, from the city to the countryside - and thirty-two kindergartens in entire sections. One of the kindergartens is still completely closed. There are also seventy-eight gaps in special education establishments and five inclusion departments for parallel support, namely, sixty-three teachers and fifteen kindergartens are missing. In addition, there are eighty two gaps of specialties missing in school units that are normally schools, specialty teachers such as English, gymnastics, music, visual, computer, French, German, theatrical education. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would therefore like to ask, because we have already entered the second half of the school year, that you carefully look at the gaps in primary education and special education, so that they can be covered and even now fully operational in the school units to which I am referring. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u58	As the general reason for education, Mr Minister, before I give you the floor I would like to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, fifty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the High School of Nea Triglia Halkidikis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I think that you are an educator or you are from such a family or have some relationship - if I am not mistaken - so I understand that, beyond the political significance of your question, there is also a particular reason, your relationship with education. I think that this relationship gives you the possibility of a dialogue on the search for consensus in the field of education rather than a sterile opposition debate, which also has this basis at all times, because it is political, it is a parliament. You are well aware - you are older than me here in the Chamber - that in recent years, in the years of the memorandum, public spending on education has been reduced by 35% and has been brought out of education by over thirty-two thousand teachers plus wage cuts and the other issues of the so-called punishing assessment that have upset education. We also received what we lived in September and October, with real gaps, was a repetition of previous years, but we also have additional problems to deal with this year. I am saying these introductory words to answer your question. The problems will arise from the fact that, for the first time, this is our information - case law in the Council of State, according to which the recruitment of alternates must have as a minimum a criterion and must be subject to their participation in these APAs, i.e. to be in the category of teachers, who have been assessed by the tenders and have been deemed to be able to be appointed. This creates a, I would not say, overthrow, but a new reality in the recruitment tables of the alternates. We have been working at the Ministry from now on, on the basis of this new premise, so that in September schools will be working on time, from the very beginning, without any teaching time being lost, with teaching staff in the places that we can ensure, with the greatest possible completeness. I think that developments in the economy will also help to proceed with a mass appointing programme for the first time after five years. Besides, the Public Investment Programme has over 590 million people last year in order to strengthen the major infrastructure problem. I could also refer to other issues. I would remind you that this year we have had a record of deputy recruitment, in relation to previous years, and a large number of recruitments in special education. However, we have loopholes and these gaps - we have to say that - to a significant extent - is due to the so-called 'planning gaps'. We have at the Ministry, after a great effort we have made, gathered such cases, which are not cases here and there, it is largely a few thousand hours. The first record shows thirteen and a half thousand hours of secretarial support. It shows two thousand sections of under ten students. Several of them have one, two, three students. You will tell me "there are parts with twenty-seven students". I'll take it. See, then, this disharmony, this bad reality that exists in the field of education. I don't want to blame anyone. Teachers give their lives for schools. Thanks to them, schools work. Thanks to them, there is a relationship of trust with the children. However, the fact that there is a category of teachers who, using client networks, are out of order and are at the disposal of the addresses or so-called 'linear support', shows that mass appointments to do this year, if we do not change, education will look like bottomless dirt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u60	Minister, you have your second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u61	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. In particular, you mentioned, at Heraklion Primary Education Department, we made eight hundred and eight temporary subsidized teachers. In particular, at the 1st Omega Vianno School, according to the figures of "My School" - is the regional system of the Ministry - there are two sections, one classic and one full day, with thirty three preschools and toddlers, where they serve three teachers, two permanent and one alternate from November 27, 2015. As the relevant Regional Director of Crete informs me, the loopholes in your preschools are a vacancy in the morning and twenty-two in the entire day's kindergartens. One in the morning relates to the Emperor’s Preschool, which is closed, due to the license of threatening education’s pregnancy from 8 January 2016. The last five recruits in teacher skills took place on 18 January 2016. These were presented by the three teachers with an instructor requesting a leave. You see, the problems we face are important, because education is a living organization. The gaps in your municipal schools are ten in the morning and nine in the entire day. For the parallel support of students for the school year 2015-2016, eighty-three requests for primary school students have been approved and renewed, twenty-two demands for infants required, according to the proposal of the CEDO, a hundred seventy-two teachers, special education teachers and twenty-six special-school nurses. They were appointed and took over for the needs of parallel support a hundred ten teachers and five kindergartens. For the specific sixty-two teachers and fifteen kindergarteners are still required. I would like to make one parentheses: we are faced with a comprehensive review of the system of parallel support, in order to move forward with the principle of inclusion and follow-up and not to create views of the Ghetto Schools or opinions which do not take into account the integration of children with special needs into the school system as a whole. Finally, I would like to say that the remaining gaps in your prefecture membership are five in primary schools and none in kindergartens. Specialization gaps in hours in the unreformed municipal schools of your prefecture are, unfortunately, in specialties which, like - beware - of trainers, French Philology, English Literature. It's amazing what's going on. In surplus personnel, we have spaces of specialty. That is where I refer to my initial position on the issue of the fictitious gaps. I hope from September and with your help, that you have an experience and your colleagues...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u62	Minister, I repeat, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. It's two hundred twenty-three in total. We have some differences. Sort of, though, it's what you said. I will give you the table I have in hand, so that we can see how we can cover the most urgent needs, of course, with priority not only the special education units but also the entire primary level, which is compulsory, as we have adopted it. On this occasion, I will make two proposals to you: I have tabled one to three or four of your predecessors, and no one has examined it - I am not saying that it has not been implemented, it has not been examined - which indirectly gives a solution because of the budgets. Of course, the reduction in budgets also came with a reform - a reduction in needs - which was supposed to have to do with the elimination of fictitious expenditure. But there are still problems. The proposal says for teachers exercising the right to maternity or paternity for nine months after birth, that we should volunteer, if they want, to offer services and, of course, that there is something to do with the protection of the child at school. They may not be able to do so in the first month or in the second month but in the next few months by nine - maybe for six months, I am now saying an example of myself - there may be a possibility. And because of the financial narrowness, if you want, you can give an incentive to an allowance, which I don't want to identify, so that it's not said it's small or large. If, in other words, you say 500 euros, it can be said that it is very much and if I say 300 euros, it can be said to be a little bit. It'll be appreciated how much this has to be. I voluntarily count, Minister, on the information I have, that more than four thousand teachers will accept at that cost helping the effort. This is illustrated by the evidence of how many get this permission. If they take her six thousand and 50% accept it, then it will be an important number. This is the one proposal I'm telling you that I've made it to three of your predecessors, but they haven't even examined it. And the second proposal concerns the fact that in previous AACC tenders, normal tenders were made earlier, there was the following problem: there was not exactly the time to provide the justification for fulfilling the military obligations, so there was an empty one. At some point, in New Democracy, the Ministry made a setup, but it did not cover all the cases, because it did not have retroactive effect. Because they may be ten, twenty teachers, those who are, once they have participated and succeeded in the competition, are useful, they need you, and especially the decision you said, of the Council of State, which will cause us problems. I believe, however, that a dialogue can be found between the way and law to walk an assessment that replaces or replaces the procedure of the Council of State or anything else. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thank you, Mr President, for the time you have given us, but there must be a proposal on education, health and social matters, and for the time being there to discuss the questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u66	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u67	I don't have anything to add. The proposals you have made are useful. We'll investigate them. They help and I keep an effort on your own, the offer and the willingness to deal with the issue of appointments, the way in which appointments are made to education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u68	The first, with number 520/9-2-2016, timely question of the second cycle of MP Evros of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Anastasia Garas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the reduction of the cotton production plan and the extension of the harvest deadline for the years 2014-2015, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. Now we will discuss the second question with number 513/9-2-2016 with the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the payment of debts to the municipalities by citizens of property owners, due to the acceding or harvesting of land for the creation of public spaces. Mr. Katsafandos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, my timely question is about the concern and inconvenience that has been created between the citizens of the city of Piraeus and other municipalities, about the compensation they have to pay due to the expropriations made by the relevant municipalities for various projects. In particular, on the basis of the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of the European Communities has ruled that it is for the national court to rule on the interpretation of Community law and of the principle of equal treatment of men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion. 5269/1931, i.e. a law which was made eighty-five years ago, the citizens whose property is close to places the municipalities expropriate to make squares, parks or playgrounds, because of the value they take, are invited to pay the cost of expropriation. In Piraeus, however, this has happened, Minister, in very poor areas such as Caminia and Old Red. This, of course, did not come about now but too many years ago. A large proportion of these allowances, although paid by the municipality concerned, the Municipality of Piraeus, under judicial decisions and in order to obtain the relevant work permits, were not collected by the payees, and are therefore subject to certain private debts, which we have reached outward rates with incremental interest. For example, Minister, a property that has an objective value of EUR 51 000 in Caminia and Old Red today, its commercial value is EUR 25 000 and what they are asking to pay is EUR 23 000. So you understand that, because of the economic crisis, this is impossible, but it is also unfair, Minister. It's unfair, because these citizens have never been asked, when the expropriation took place, if they wanted it, they never told them what the cost of expropriation would be and, of course, they never gained any goodwill in building a small square or a small playground in a degraded area. So, recognizing this injustice, the Piraeus Municipal Council had in the past made too many decisions ahead of the economic crisis that has suspended the recovery of all this money from all those residents who have their property there. But the problem is not solved. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If I may, it is very important, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u70	All right, Mr. Congressman, it's all important.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u71	It has something to do with all the municipalities of Greece. However, in addition to the economic circumstances, the question of compensation to the owners of such a company also raises a number of other additional problems. In particular, in the majority of the above areas, which we are talking about - squares, parks and playgrounds - the implementation, as you know, of Article 28 of Law 13371983 on the extension of urban development plans and related regulations is being carried out. In addition, you should bear in mind that these regions, at least for Piraeus, had no green ones, and that is a basic condition for the state and the state to be able to look worthy of the obligations it has. Finally, I would like to tell you that the expropriations made by the municipalities were made either from Community funds or from the Green Fund, the former ETUC, by 70%, were returned to the municipality. So I think it is unreasonable twice to pay, and the state to give back the money to the municipalities for some of these projects, which have been done, and the state also to ask the public to pay again. That is what I wanted to say and I am waiting for your reply, Minister. You understand that a law, which has been adopted eighty-five years ago for a story that has been done twenty-five years ago, with the current circumstances, we have to do something to correct it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u72	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, the question by my colleague is of crucial importance. But I would like to remind you, first of all, of the typical part of the case so that both the listeners and the listeners can hear it. Law 52691931 is neither the first nor the last, which relates to contaminated property. There are other legislative interventions. I remember '77, '48, '83 and 2003. So there is a question here, first of all, whether there is or is not any benefit. In my humble opinion, there is a great benefit, especially in degraded areas, because that is exactly where it is created arbitrary residence and the citizens and the state must contribute - the citizen who is benefiting and the state - precisely so that there are towns with polluting plans and no dirt towns. The question of the benefit of the local owners from the creation of a shared area is now a legal and town-based presumption, which benefits the owner as compared to the other owners who expropriate his property. Moreover, this has also been confirmed by Article 24 of the Constitution, which states that the project concerned is provided for by the law, the administrative act concerned, the involvement of the owners, when the implementation of the project entails an increase in the value of the property, a divergence. Since, at the moment, the price of a unit of compensation in the expropriated areas is the result of a judicial decision and the judicial authority is independent of the executive, I think that it is not possible to raise a question at the moment if these final judicial decisions are well or poorly implemented. The question, which I shall raise in my second speech, is whether this judicial decision is actually being implemented today. Implement what I mean? The responsibility of some municipalities is to say that for decades they have not been collected, because if they had collected then and when they had to, there would be no such problem today. As far as the other issue is concerned, the citizens do not pay twice. You know very well that the citizen pays the contribution, but this levy is scarcely enough to cover expropriation. This means that the money provided by the Green Fund is essentially surplus money. It is not the same money that the municipality will receive again, it is essentially the difference. In this sense, I think that it is a different thing to what happened to these municipalities - and I will say it in my secondary speech - and a different thing whether or not there is this institution for compensation in respect of contributions to land and money. Don't overthrow things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u74	Mr Katsafandos has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u75	Minister, to tell truths and not hide behind our finger. More rewarding work by a municipality than the recompense for sewerage does not exist. I will therefore inform you that if a sanitary project is done and it is via the NSRF, the public is not paying. I will tell you a tactic that various municipalities and mayors used in the past and today, now that we are talking about. You know that if the charging of financial services does not go ahead, it will be cancelled five years later. I, therefore, now come on the subject, which has been created for the inhabitants of Kaminia and Old Reds. I can tell you again that none of them were asked nor knew the cost, which would be paid by the municipality at the time. I say to you that we need to modernise and make some new provisions that adapt to the present situation. The mayor can't do anything he wants. In other words, it is not possible for other projects to pay recompense for citizens, for other projects to be postponed after five years, for others to be delayed and, at the end, to pay the marble. And it is not a practical matter. For these residents, trade value does not exceed EUR 25 000 of the property, which they have. I do not know, of course, what the value of expropriation and giving a green island and how much that costs. However, today they have been called upon to pay and their real estate has been committed, their bills have been committed, everything has been committed and have been called upon to pay fines of EUR 23,000. I, therefore, come to you on the basis of the problem of the people of Piraeus and say something broader: that we must go into a class, that a rule must be introduced, which will only be observed by all mayors, and not by the use of the laws according to their will and wherever we want and where we can collect and where we do not want to collect, where European funds do not exist in return, where there is no European funds to write off and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Chironi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u77	I understand and share your concern. I don't want to answer whether the drainage is covered in return by some other fees, because you know it's covered. You know that citizens who are connected to a drainage system pay the water services - in Attica, in particular, the EEAS - and have been paying it for a long time. There are means of sewerage charges and other charges, which exactly cover these costs. No one says that the works will be done free of charge or that they will be done by the state, despite the fact that, in our humble opinion, these are public goods and public goods, certainly the state must also contribute and not be purely 'payable', which is not exactly fair to the weaker. The water you mention is a common good and in this sense must also be covered by the consumer, but also by the state. On the second issue, which was essentially raised in your speech, the law or unfairness of a fine, I think I would be the most unauthorised to answer, because it is clearly the Ministry of Finance. As I said before, these matters are decided by the courts. It is not our Ministry's responsibility to say whether these fines, large or small, are fair. Nevertheless, I will come to your words, with a few comments on what you are really right about. First of all, it is not just the people who benefit from the regulation, but everyone. In this sense, if we relegate - and we are in the process of doing so - we should share this with many more people. It is therefore an intervention, which is in our minds. We are also calling on you, too, to help us all positively in this direction. The other important issue, which you have raised indirectly, is that these fines have been ejected by the incredible force of anatomy. If these fines were collected on time, values would have been completely different. So it is time to discuss again with the Treasury, to see the real values of land today, how much these expropriations are costing today to redefined. Although it is not our responsibility, we are positive that we should discuss this because it is not possible to pay a loan, because some municipalities have neglected them for decades. The last thing I want to mention is that I have already said in this Chamber that in the new arbitrary law we are debating precisely that these fees, these fines, these all have to be of a therapeutic nature. We must therefore see what it costs or what the reform of this city has cost us to look at at at the moment, the contribution to land and money is going 100% rewarding and not punishing the citizen. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I think, therefore, - and I am ending with this, Mr President - that if we in the dialogue that we are going to open on the issue of arbitrary issues, we are calling on you to participate actively, you know that it has begun and that we have in place all the institutions, Chamber of Technical Chamber, SGU and the others - we will reach a point win - win and for the citizens and for us as a state.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the fourth under number 524/9-2-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the Juncker package, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Also, the seventh question under number 429/19-1-2016 of MP 2 in Athens, Potamios Theocharis Theocharis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the resolution of the SAPIS Group's problem and the determination of the time schedule for payment of the compensation of the insured persons, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. Also, the first question by MP II, Mr. Georgios Amyras, on the procurement of banks for interbank transfers and card use, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Finally, the second question with number 745/38/2-11-2015, and application for the submission of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy, Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the stay of Mr Kim Glen, as Prime Minister, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. We are now entering the debate of the fifth under number 484/2/2016 on the second time question of the second-round question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Miltiades Varvitsiotis, on the lack of the state in the necessary projects to protect the Hymettos. Here, Mr Varvitsiotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to highlight the Minister's presence positively, because only the six of the thirteen timely questions have been discussed. The others have been received because of the absence of the ministers. There is also a systematic absence of the Minister of Finance and all the financial staff to respond to specific things. What I wanted - and that is why I tabled it as a topical question and not as a written question, Mr Minister - was to draw your attention to the multitude of Highness. The Hittite is a mountain which has been afflicted, devastated. It may, however, be the only real lung in Attica and it must certainly be protected. Hundreds of thousands of people have been involved in reafforestation in recent years, in Hypothet's support procedures, in environmental organisations, in protection groups. But last summer we had a very difficult fire, which burned about eight thousand acres. Then you came out immediately and said that you would strengthen the Transnational Protection Association, the SPY, who is doing the most organized work in the Hypottos with EUR 250,000 from the Green Fund, in order to do the works that need to be done, to restore the damage and, of course, to protect all the surrounding populations from the floods, from the transport of the burnt, the soil, the mud, from the stones, from the transport of all these divestments, which are falling and flooding our cities all the time. Unfortunately, this disbursement has not come beyond the act you signed on reafforestation, no effort has been made by your Ministry. I would therefore like to draw your attention and ask why, several months have passed so that this delay is not justified.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u80	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. I hope, Mr Varvitsiotis, that your question is due to incomplete information rather than to what we say, 'we consider it strange'. I think that, if we compare the state's reaction to today, we will come to the conclusion that in this case the state has actually acted in a record time and as to what must be done and what has happened in these few months' time since the fire. Instead, years have passed before, to react and usually these years have been devastating. In fact - you are absolutely right - it is a very sensitive ecosystem, which has been under incredible pressure, most of which have been due to the state's heavy deficits for decades. We, immediately after the fire, proceeded to the immediate elaboration of this special forestry study for the construction of both anti-corrosion and anti-military works on the burnt land, and above all so that we could save everything that could be saved in terms of the territorial capacity of the mountain for natural regeneration. That's why we signed. At this point I would remind you that between these two difficult months the elections were held, that is, we had the misfortune and we resigned as government at the end of August. In spite of these gaps, we had these studies ready and on 2 October we signed the Convention with the SPA. We were also criticised because we signed with SPAY. It was a request from the mayors to sign a contract with the SPA, because if we went to make contracts with separate contractors, there would be a very long delay. As far as Green Fund money is concerned, I would remind you that the contract was actually signed as soon as possible on 2 October, and we have the commitment from the Green Fund, which is its decision in this regard involving a position and a decision granting credit. There is no need for a decision from the Green Fund. There is, therefore, the sum of EUR 250 000. which is, of course, ready to be disbursed from the Green Fund budget in Measure 1 ‘Refractory and flood protection of burnt forests and in particular forest and forest basins’. In this sense, then, both the logging table and the restoration study by the Reafforestation Directorate and the EUR 250 000 to the fund and the programming contract have already been carried out and the following work has been carried out by the SPD. Cleaning of wells, cleaning of dams, building of logs, anti-corrosion and anti-milling operations. I would remind you that this year, although it was a year with particularly messy and heavy rainfall, we had no problem - because we have sometimes also had victims in the region - downstream of the disaster. I would remind you that underneath, there are extremely sensitive areas with very dense construction and the greens are very steep - if you have visited the areas that have been burnt. At the moment we have managed to have had the fitting of a stirrer wire to hold the rocks. We are still pending the completion of the flooding projects - of course they will continue - to take measures to protect the adjacent areas and, of course, to protect further from other fires. That is what I wanted to point out. In my dentistry, I'll be more detailed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Varvichiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u83	I do not disagree at all with what you have told us. You just didn't tell us why the EUR 250 000 has not yet been disbursed. You mentioned all of what SPAY did, that you declared the area resurrected, as I said to you, that the study was carried out by the SPAY. Why haven't you made the money? That's a simple question. What do you think? That the SPY has billions on his fund and they're sitting and waiting? It has some operating expenses covered by the municipalities. They participate too many groups of forest protection and volunteers and assist their work. It has been subsidized by equipment from various European programmes. That's it. Why don't you give the 250 thousand euros? You are now saying that this decision applies. Why haven't you given them up if they've really done all this to you? I don't know how you see things, Mr. Cironi. I, Minister, see them as follows: it takes care, love and speed to manage the difficult issues of power. Because I have heard too much - and you have gone to mention them - about who protects the environment or not. Let me remind you that your ministry has made decisions completely illegal that have fallen into the Council of State. You're cut off for the Squirrels. You told us you were behind the election. Since the elections on 20 September, however, it has been months. We are talking here about the mountainous volume of Attica, about hundreds of thousands of people living underneath it. Do not forget that this year we had murderous floods in Haidari, West Athens, and that was not the result of a fire but of more serious urban violations that had caused years of problems in the region. We do not want anything to be done in Eastern Athens as well. I'm the one who knocked you off the alarm bell for the delay. I congratulate you for coming to answer. But besides responding to the House, I would expect you to go to your ministry tomorrow morning, take the President of the SPAY who is the Mayor of Iliopolis - is not a party friend of the New Democracy and do not think so - and tell him that the money from the Green Fund is ready to be disbursed. If you can give more aid in advance of the preparation of the summer fire season, even better to do so. We will not let the Hymittos, despite what has happened in the past, burn once again and see only burnt and not planted the Attica suburbs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u84	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u85	I'm sorry, Mr. Varvichiotis. I'm afraid you've confused some things. There's a lot of difference. I have here the letter that was sent to our ministry on 24 September and registered on 25 September. It was sent on the days when the elections were held. Here Mr Valasopoulos, the Mayor and President of the SPAY, says that the expenditure that has been set aside and allocated from the SPAY's own resources, i.e. from the contributions of the Member States to cover the immediate urgent rehabilitation needs, without covering the entire burned area, is detailed. It also mentions the cost of which I imagine you will be aware. The total cost is EUR 399.762. Below it says: 'Please be sure that the amount of 250,000, which has been found from the Green Fund, is given the protection link for the immediate execution and completion of projects'. That amount, that's coming to help with the SPA. SPAY, therefore, had budgeted from own resources and we will assist it. Mr Valasopoulos does not say anywhere that he complains - because we have excellent relations and constant correspondence - because they delayed Hymetos' work because of the lack of this money. Of course we will. You know that the fund board recently changed, and in this sense there is no money available that has been set aside for the SPA, not to be given to the SPA. So I say again that we did our job and the works go on, contrary to what you write us in your original question that we have supposedly done nothing for the Hymitus. I think I've answered that sufficiently. But you have also raised other issues here. You've been hurting the wrong face. Personally, I've been volunteering in the Hymittos for too long. I'm also a resident of a municipality. We're fellow citizens from everything you know. That is why I am going up the mountain and refreshing almost ten times a year, without fans and without channels, with volunteers. Refreshments made with fans and canals are usually incorrect refreshments, with flammable materials, flammable trees, monocultures that usually occur where wild fire occurs after five or ten years. Perhaps you don't know that fire is a natural phenomenon many times and it's dehydrating for the forest when there's diversity. But when the forest is made up only of these pine trees planting, precisely to make television lightnings, then it becomes a mountain bourlot and then it is really in danger. So I'd expect a little more modesty. I expect to see you next time we go with friends to refresh, be there in our municipality, in the Municipality of Glyfada to see what work is being done by volunteers and who are the real volunteers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute, with the tolerance of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Varvitsiotis, I would say away from this resolution, but anyway. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u88	Minister, I have two things to say. I am referring to your announcement. You announced the funding of 250,000 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u89	They will be given, Mr. Varvichiotis. There's no reason not to be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u90	As far as reafforestations are concerned, as you put them, you really do - you have authority - a reafforestation design. Why don't you do it? I, in all reafforestations in the Hypoattos, have gone, lies the SPAY, who will obviously have judged what reafforestation will take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u91	Now the question is general.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u92	If you consider it harmful the reafforestations that have taken place so far, plan a new type of reafforestation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u93	Mr Varvitsiotis, we are recycled now and we are in general unrestricted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, I would like for a minute to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u95	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u96	We're not going to discover America and we're not gonna do it all as lighters. In our Ministry's Forest Department there are excellent scientists and they design excellent reafforestations with diversity and native species. I don't have to boast about it. In fact, this is a service we found from the previous administrations. And it's worth congratulating people. They're few and they're doing excellent work. In any work they work, they really do a memorable job.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u97	The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-15-S1-commons.u98	With the consent of the House at 19.26 minutes, the sitting on Wednesday, February 17, 2016, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
