ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS According to the document of the General Secretariat of the Government, due to the absence of the Minister responsible abroad, Mr. Petropoulos, the following questions will not be discussed: The first under number 1330/27-9-2016 topical question of the first cycle of Evia MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Excellency to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the increase of the limit for the netting of debts of the insured of the OGA. The seventh under number 1299/20-9-2016 topical question of the second question by the MP of Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKERROKEKIKIKIKOKIKIKOKIKOKIKOKIKOKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKOKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKIKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOK The following questions will not be discussed by the honourable Member as a result of a hindrance to the honourable Member: The second, under number 1333/27-9-2016, is a top-level question of the first-round question of the Member of the Greek Parliament, Mr Stavros Kalafatis, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the workers' employment at the Organisation of Urban Transport of Thessaloniki (OSTH). The sixth question under number 1328/26-9-2016 is a top-level question for the first cycle of MP A' Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the public consultation on the redefinition of Veroia. In consultation with the Deputy Minister responsible for education, research and Religious Affairs, the sixth under number 1279/19-9-2016 will not be discussed until the second question of Parliament's Kastoria, New Democracy, Maria Antonios, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the need to immediately deposit the contract of the Greek State with the European Investment Bank (EIB) to finance the research. The fourth question will be discussed with No 1326/26-9-2016 in the first cycle of the MP Argolis of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the use of the Yunker package in Greece. The question will be answered by the Minister, George Stathakis. Mr. Maniatis, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am pleased that the Minister is here to discuss an issue, which undoubtedly concerns all Greek society and relates to the progress of the so-called Juncker package. Minister, in the question I tabled to you, I had a quote from Mr Yunker's speech to the European Parliament a few weeks ago. The President of the European Commission, therefore, said in his speech, addressing MEPs: 'From one year of implementation of the Juncker package throughout Europe, from Latvia to Luxembourg' - that is what he said - 'EUR 116 billion has been invested, two thousand loans have been granted to small and medium-sized enterprises and newly-built enterprises and 100 000 new jobs have been created'. It is obvious, therefore, that it is reasonable to ask how many of these 116 billion have been invested in Greece. If one wants to do a very simple one, one could say - and if we consider that the Greek economy is, say, 2% of the European economy, in order to reach the average of these 116 billion, we should have invested in our country over 2 billion, today we are talking about 2.5 billion, and I always say that on the basis of the average, not the first positions. Similarly, four - five thousand loans should have been granted to small and medium-sized enterprises or some thousands of jobs created. Minister, in December 2014 the Greek Government had submitted to the European Commission's official website a complete proposal from the Hellenic Republic for seventy-four programmes of total budget of 41.5 billion. So what matters - and that is the question - at this first stage is: it is well known that your Government has suspended the submission of these programmes. The first question, then, is how long you have been suspending, secondly, when you referred a third question back to us, what changes have you made in the interim - therefore, for the time that has been lost - and fourthly, where are we today, so that the second question can be answered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Maniot. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u4	My dear colleague, I have the account of the Juncker project, July 2016. The fifth country in the Juncker project after the four large - Germany, Spain, England and France - is Greece. Fifth country in absorption of the Juncker project is Greece. I'm filing it. It is above all twenty-eight other European countries. [[At this point, the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, George Stathakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What does that mean? It means that, to be fifth in the Juncker Plan, Greece, some things have happened in the past year. Let me remind you that on 25 June 2015 the regulation was adopted, the implementing decision was made on 22 July. On January 29, 2016, Juncker announced the establishment and establishment in Greece of a working group, the Investment Team for Greece. The Commission's information brochure was published in February 2016. All ministries have been informed. Forty-two projects have been selected by the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism, depending on maturity and others. What's happened so far. I'll give you the details at the end. Greece is a fifth country to absorb the Juncker project for the following reasons: They have been approved 'from the window' for infrastructure and innovation - I will present to you, I repeat, the figures, one to one of all the investment projects - EUR 533 million financed by the European Investment Bank under the EFSI. The second pillar of Juncker relates to guaranteeing the financing mainly of small and medium-sized enterprises. A funding of 160 million has been approved to intermediate banks, which will lead to investment of over 280 million and will benefit over seven hundred small and medium-sized enterprises. I am referring to the agreement on small and medium-sized enterprises for financing with the National Bank and ProCredit Bank. So the picture is revealing. The figures are data, they are all European. I filed it. I will then submit the Commission's figures on the programmes that have been approved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I fear very much that in your reply you confirm our fears that very few things have been done in this direction. Do you accept the logic that out of the EUR 116 billion already invested should on average have been invested in the country over 2 billion so that we are on the country's average? Because otherwise we do not have a common level of reference. We therefore consider that, on the basis of this simple average, the country's targets and achievements should be more than EUR 2 billion. Secondly, you did not answer my question about what changes you were making in the interim from the original list that you received and for which, apparently, we lost two years without any further progress. What programs did you change? Why did we have that delay? Third question: how many thousands of jobs, on the basis of what you say to us - and I reserve to see them, why do we need to have detailed evidence in front of us - have they been created? We must bear in mind that in the other Member States 100 000 jobs have been created. Finally, Minister, of these things you said to us - if I remember correctly that some 500 million have been adopted, instead of two more and more which, on the basis of which I repeat, the average - can you tell us whether any of these are investments which you had fought in every way as an opposition? For example, are they part of what you have told us about the applications made by the Germans 'FRAPORT' for airports, yes or no? Are there any other investments in large, energy projects that were fully ready by the private sector and which you have also delayed? In addition, with regard to small and medium-sized enterprises that are objectively a key lever for the country, can you tell us how many loans from small and medium-sized enterprises you have promoted, to compare them with the two hundred thousand loans from small and medium-sized enterprises provided by all the other countries under the Yunker package? On these questions, Minister, I would ask you very much to have your answer. Otherwise, it seems that we have a whole different level of reference and you are obviously talking to us about issues, which are not based on the comparison that all European Member States must have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u8	I am pleased that you do not question the overall figures and want the investment to be carried out in the Juncker project. It also includes the loan of FRAPORT's investment, which you have insinuated, and which is in the figures I submit, which are all from the European Investment Bank. [[At this point, the Minister for Economy, Development and Finance, George Stathakis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But let me refer to the past. When we became a government, we received a list of projects, which were project titles and a terrible sum of 400 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u9	It was 40-41 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u10	You're right, it was 40 billion. These were immature works, I repeat titles. What we did was as simple as that. From all this list of projects, I will refer to these projects. The Juncker plan was running, starting, and so you had to have mature works. I would remind you that the Yunker project concerns only private investment and the PPP, it concerns public works itself only under very specific conditions. So the works you invoke were a list of zero maturity. What we have done is to distinguish a list of projects which were ripe, a list which we have posted in search of attraction of investments. Now, as far as the specific categories of projects are concerned, I said one category to you quite simply, and they are the overall elements of how it has occurred. The second category concerns lending to small and medium-sized enterprises, and I referred to the specific lending instruments that have been launched. As far as the third category is concerned, I would like to remind you that the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises has now been going on with very large packages together with the fund of funds that we are preparing together with the European Investment Bank and the EFSI, and that the financial resources for small and medium-sized enterprises will exceed 2.5 billion in the next few months. I'm coming to the fourth element. By the end of 2016 Greece will have absorbed about 2 billion out of the Juncker project. So he exaggerates what you implied. I repeat that the evidence that ranks the fifth country in the Juncker project is the Community. From the projects now, the long list of projects, let me highlight what we have an agreement with the EIB on direct financing. These are three very important development projects: first, the new 4 Athens metro line of 1.5 billion, 75% loans from the EIB and 25% from the ESRB, second, the electricity interconnection of Crete - the Peloponnese budget of 300 million, 50% from the EIB and 50% from the ESRB and, third, the extension of the natural gas network to sixteen cities of East Macedonia - Thrace, Central Macedonia and Central Greece budget of 280 million, 50% from the ESRB and 50% from the European Investment Bank. May I also remind you that on 15 July 2016 the EIB signed an agreement with the Greek State of 180 million for the financing of the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation and at an advanced stage there is a loan contract again with the State of 135 million for the implementation of a large programme of university building infrastructure in our universities. The conclusion is that the data are overwhelming. Greece is a fifth country in Europe to absorb the Juncker project, the European Investment Bank is present in Greece at an accelerated pace of agreements and shows very strong confidence in the Greek economy with the entire range of tools it activates. I conclude that the Greek Government is making use of all the available tools with complementarity, soon it will create more, with a view to optimising economic and social efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u11	Madam President, could you please give me a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u12	No, Mr Maniotis, why is the question followed, and then the Minister will have to answer and we will not have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u13	Just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u14	We must now keep to the time, because the procedures are becoming long-lived. In any case, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you mentioned the three major projects, namely the Metro Line 4, the electrical interconnection of Crete and the expansion of natural gas in sixteen cities, which were already in the previous list since December.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u16	It was immature. Now we're growing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u17	It's been quite mature ever since. Can you tell me why we had to lose two years and now tell us, two years late, when you did not give me an answer - the answer is not about me, how many thousands of jobs were created in the rest of Europe? Furthermore, let me tell you, Minister, that it is important to see from the two hundred thousand loans, how much loans were made to the Greek small and medium-sized enterprises. Don't tell me that the European Investment Bank is taking part. It has been involved for over two decades in investment projects in the country and has helped with funding in many projects and infrastructure and private projects. So the question is which projects you have changed, which projects you matured and which one of these projects...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u18	We won't open a debate now, Mr. Maniots.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u19	...have we lost two years now, while they were there and could have been promoted since February 2015? Thank you very much, Madam President, for your understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u20	Minister, if you'd like to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u21	I really can't watch you. The Juncker project started in July 2015. You say: "What you did before July 2015, before the Juncker project begins." Secondly, the list of projects - I repeat it for once - was virtual. Negative maturation. Thirdly, we have chosen the projects which we announced in due course, and for four of them we have advanced agreements. What else can I tell you? Fourthly, with regard to small and medium-sized enterprises and how many jobs have been created, I have provided you with the official information from the Commission. From the second pillar, a thousand jobs have been created and from the financial programmes of small and medium-sized enterprises, the 563 million that I have mentioned now starts. Now the National Bank and Probank took it. I've got all the evidence from the Commission. You insist on something. Accept the Commission's evidence. Accept that Greece is first in absorption from the Juncker package, with the exception of the four major economies. We are at your disposal for as many details as you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much. As the honourable Members have not been here, I will take advantage of the time to say about the timely questions that will not be discussed. The third, with number 1329/26-9-2016, timely question for the first cycle of Congressman I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the future of the naval service, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister, as Mr. Dritsas will be in the Occupation of Trial Officers. Also, due to the impediment of the Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, who will be in Ioannina, the following questions will not be discussed: The fifth under number 1335/27-9-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, on the Moors Health Centres of the Municipality of Faistos Heraklion Crete. The second of the petitions - Questions No 7519/4-8-2016 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the regulation of the issue of the refund as an unjustified payment of the remuneration of CEDEFOP officials. Also, due to the impediment of the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Panos Skourletis, who will be in an inter-ministerial meeting on investment, will not discuss the first with number 1331/27-9-2016 topical question of the second-cycle MP Kozanis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Theophantou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the recruitment of workers in the lignite plant "Ptolemais V" with transparent criteria from the OAED registers. The fourth question under number 1327/26-9-2016 is the second question of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssea Constantinople to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the compensation of farmers due to the huge damage caused to crops and livestock in Arcadia by the theory of 25 June, will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Evangelos Apostolos, who will be in a conference in Lamia. Also, for the same reason, the fifth question under number 1336/27-9-2016 will not be discussed in the Second Cycle of the Fourth Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Ministers for Rural Development and Food and Finance, on the destruction of fire oil trees in Larissa Prefecture. The eighth Question No 1288/19-9-2016 by the Independent MEP Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on the procedure for selecting directors to the National Health System (NSS), will not be discussed due to a workload of the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Paul Polakis. Also, for the same reason will not be discussed the ninth under number 1263/13-9-2016 topical question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, Minister for Health, on the problem of public hospitals due to deficiencies in modern medical equipment. The tenth under No 1292/19-9-2016 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the "South engraving" in Patras - Pyrgos, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Mr Christos Spirtzi, who will be on the Interministerial Committee. The eleventh Question No 1248/12-9-2016 by the Independent MEP Mr. Eftathiou (Stathia) Panagoulis to the Minister of Finance, on the cost of the "representatives of the institutions" in the public sector, will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou. For the same reason, the third will not be discussed under No 5298/373/11-5-2016 question and application for the submission of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Parliament of Athens, Mr Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Finance, on the cost of negotiating with institutions in luxurious hotels, as well as the 3062/10-2-2016 question by the Independent MEP, Mr Leonidas Gregorakos, to the Minister of Finance, on compensation for the share of cooperative banks. The first question by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panayotas Vranza to the Minister of Finance, regarding VAT rate 24% on live producing animals, will not be discussed due to miserable obligations of the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr Alexiadis. The second question under number 1334/27-9-2016 of the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukokorous, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the grant of an input-output system to service stations, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the State Secretary of Economy, Development and Tourism Mr.Theodoras Jackis, who will be in a meeting in Maximos. The third, with number 1337/27-9-2016, is a topical question of the second cycle of the People's League MP – Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the action of national mediation with the absence of a Greek flag at a meeting of the Prime Minister with the President of Turkey,” will not be discussed due to the misguided obligations of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Nicholas Kotzias. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 34/28/1-8-16 will be debated on the topical and urgent debate on the new Republic of Cyprus's membership of the European Union. Konstantinos Katsafandou, Theodoras Bakoyannis, Vasilis Kikilia, Konstantinos Ah. Karamanli, Emmanuel (Manu) Konsola, Konsantinos Tsiara, Fotinos Arabatzis, Charalambou Athanasiou, Savva Anastasiadis, Ioannis Andrianou, Anna - Misel Asmakopoulou, George Vagionas, Apostolos Vesiropoulos, Constantino Vlassi, Georgiou Vlachos, Mavroudis, Sofia Vouletsi, Ioannis Vroutsis, Georgiou Georgios - Adori Georgios, Georgios Yakou Yakou, Stergiou Giannoumakis, Kyrikounis Kantanis Kalokloumou, Akloumanis Kalokloumanis Kostanis, Akloumanis Kossiadis (Tastou), Akloustanis Kossiakonossi (Tas), Kosiakonosiakonosiadis, Akoutis, Akoloulisiasiasiakonosiasiasiasiasiasiasiasias, Akou, Akloou, Akou, Akloustanis Kosiasiasiasiaskaloou, Akloustanis, Akloou, Aklosiakonosiasssssssssssiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasias Kos Kosiasias Kosiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasos Koloou, Kloou, Kstaniastouloou, Akloou, Klosiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiaskaloou, Kaloou, Kaloou, Kaloou, Kaloou, Kaloos Kaloou, Kaloou, Kloos Kalos, Kstanis, Kalooskaloou, Parliamentary Representatives for today's debate will be from New Democracy Mr. Vassilis Kikilis, from SYRIZA Ilias Kamatos, from the Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kashiaris, from the Democratic Assent of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Athanasios Theocharopoulos, from the KKE. Christos Katsotis, from Potamis Iason Folilas, from ANEL Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos and from the Union of Kentrons Mr. Also, I have the honour to announce to the House that they are attending our meeting from the top Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-five visitors from the Foundation "The Theotokos" in Ilioon Attica. We welcome you to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Constantine Katsafandos has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the concept of timely question is judged by content and by reality itself. Unfortunately, the government chose to discuss the topical question, which we tabled fifty-seven Members of the New Democracy, two months later, it said a lot about the notion that it has not only about parliamentary control but also about the seriousness of the problem. We tabled this question shortly after the events of the attempted coup in Turkey, attempting to raise awareness of the government, warning about the risks and highlight the uncertainties of its policy, which create an explosive situation in immigration. Mr. Tsipras and your Government, Ministers, were lucky to have a responsible Civic opposition to them. Because Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy have taken a responsible approach to the great problem of immigration. They did not see it as an opportunity to catch displeased or outraged voters - something that you, unfortunately, did not do in the years when you were in the position of Officer Opposition - which is beneficial and important for major national issues, which are concerned with the present and future of this country. Mr President, immigration has four serious dimensions. The first concerns the humanitarian approach to the problem. The second relates to national security issues. The third has the economic and social implications, which it creates within the country. And the fourth relates to the country's international relations, as far as the European and global dimension of the problem is concerned. Unfortunately, all these four axes have failed. You have failed in the humanitarian dimension of the problem, because humanity is not stacking tens of thousands of people in inappropriate places without the basic hygiene conditions. You cannot feel proud, both for Idomeni, for the Idomeni camps, and for the camp in the port of Piraeus and the modern camps that you have done in Chios, Mytilini and other areas. For example, I am tabling the Amnesty International report, the recent report, where it accuses you of serious omissions. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Katsafandos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I do not need to tell you the day-to-day problems created on the islands, the explosion of violence, rape, drug trafficking and all that violation, which has developed within these camps. Unfortunately, however, you have failed fully in defending our national security. The countries have land, air, and they also have maritime borders - so you should tell the Prime Minister, because it seems that he is forgetting it - and unfortunately these borders have been abolished from your choices. You have failed to deal with the economic and social impact within the country. The management of immigration became a huge 'bizna' with direct assignments. A 'part' was set up around non-governmental organizations. At the same time, our tourism and the local economy of the islands were subjected to a severe blow, but not only. Do you know what the losses in the economy were from the occupation of the Idomen's railway line were? Do you know how much this story cost us? At social level, the overweight of the regions brings society to its limit, a society that has rushed to give love, food, first-demand species to all these people, but now they have all reached their limits. You have failed to manage the problem at European and international level. Greece has not become part of the problem. It's the same problem, and it's all yours. The borders of the European Union, as we all know from summer, have now been transferred to the northern border of our country and Greece is an intermediate place, a storeroom of souls. The government, capturing its ideas and its graciously unacceptable choice to link migration to negotiation with lenders, literally left the country at the mercy of God, undermining vital national issues. There was a involvement of NATO forces with patrols in the Aegean. Do you think you had an active participation in this agreement? And if you had, why didn't you ask NATO to patrol only on the Turkish coast? Because that's where you know it's the Immigration Squad. The European Union's agreement with Turkey has indeed limited its flows. However, the number of those who remained in Greece was growing and continues to grow. Why? Because there's no relocation. Why? Because there are no reprocesses. The Prime Minister himself said Sunday in Austria that the daily flows that we have on the islands of the eastern Aegean are about a hundred and fifty people a day, and the Prime Minister himself said there have been only four thousand relocations and relocations. Those who come, that is, in a month, now that the agreement is in force, have been kicked out in a year. Recently, the Turkish Ambassador to the European Union, Mr Selim Genel, found - and I tell you this as kindly as I can - that Greece is not particularly interested in the relaunches. At this point we have arrived, ladies and gentlemen, while the islands are sinking from the burden that you yourself have borne. I give the Turkish Ambassador's statement in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Katsafandos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Your Government refuses to move on to the separation of refugees and illegal immigrants. You all regard them as a priori refugees. You may also consider them future, potential voters. Where do you have this legalization to do what you want, to ignore national risks and to dismantle tourism on the islands? All over 2014, forty - five thousand four hundred fifty two people had entered our country. Since January 2015, with the change of government and the country's immigration policy, this number has increased rapidly. In 2015, eight hundred seventy-two thousand eighty-eighty-one people entered our country, an 1820% increase, and your policy is aware that it has facilitated this migration current. The shortest route to Europe is from Turkey to Bulgaria. There is a terrestrial road and it is certainly safer in relation to the risk of spreading the Aegean Sea. And yet there the flows are reduced. Why? Because he has passed on to everyone the message, Minister, which you wonder, that Greece is open to illegal immigration. That is why there has been an increase in the flow. At the moment, our country has become a hostage of Turkey. With great surprise we have all seen Mr Erdogan - at his last meeting with the Greek Prime Minister - link migration and control of migration flows with Greek-Turkish relations and Mr Tsipras to watch abhorrent. In other words, Turkey, in order to break back into our national issues, will be able to blink the string of migratory flows, because this government is weak in defending national security and is committed to its ideas, because it refuses to implement a structured, coherent and effective national migration plan. You know, Minister, yesterday's statement by Mr Erdogan, who even disputes the Treaty of Lausanne. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Katsafandos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Tsipras, however, Minister, who was also present at this meeting, is to blame for another major manoeuvre. He appeared himself as an expedited for lifting the visa to Turkish citizens. He has evidently found that he respects the conditions laid down by the European safety regulatory framework in order to defend this! But you forgot that some of the jihadists who participated in Europe's terrorist attacks entered Lero in Greece as refugees. It is the policy of the open borders of Mr Tsipras that we are already paying very much! This is where I want to make something clear. You didn't create the problem. You raised it. We all accept the need to have an integrated plan for managing immigration. But has there been some study, Minister, of how many refugees or illegal immigrants can be welcomed, hosted and assimilated by Greece? And if there was this study, I'd like you to tell us the number. Are the number those who will come so many more will send us back? And I would like today in this debate, Minister, to answer clearly if there is a case in 2017 that there will be re-promotions of refugees and illegal immigrants from other European countries to Greece. I would like you to tell me if you can deny it and have a categorical answer that they will not exist. Not that that means something, Minister, because you yourself have been self-sufficient a few times. You remember when we warned you that they would close our country's borders and you excluded it. Do you remember mocking local communities on the islands to accept the creation of hot spots? You told them that refugees and illegal immigrants would stay there for forty-eight hours and then leave? That's what happened and we don't know about it? Now that you've turned the islands into soul storerooms and every day we've got episodes all the time, what do you have to tell them? Now that you have dismantled tourism in Chios, Mytilini, Kos and others, now that they will pay those taxes which you have imposed on them through these difficult conditions in tourism, which they have experienced, who will be the ones to pay for the marble? Why, Minister, do you still not separate refugees from illegal immigrants today? Where and where is a refugee from Pakistan, Bangladesh, the countries of North Africa or Iraq, where there are safe areas? Why haven't the closed pre-regulatory centres been completed yet? Minister, I will deal in detail with my second and other aspects of government policy on immigration, making proposals like my colleagues. But you must realize that you are responsible for the government and not a non-governmental organization. A non-governmental organization can be uncontrolled. And you have left the solidarity and non-governmental organisations uncontrollable. But a government is answering. And he is accountable to the people and to the critical national problems he faces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, too. Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President-in-Office, perhaps this is the only time you have done well that you did not come to your time to answer the topical question, because unfortunately the data on the management of the refugee are changing at such a pace that we might need a timely question this week in order to answer these key questions. And, unfortunately, the data for our country is changing for the worse. It turns out that the worse than a bad agreement, such as that with Turkey, between Turkey and the European Union, is the poor implementation of the agreement. Of course, it is bad for our country, because both Europe and Turkey have earned to some extent what they originally claimed. Europe's political time in order to deal with the issue, and Turkey's major financial resources and a commitment to abolish visas sometime next time. It turns out to be a bad deal for our country because young immigrants are caught in the territory every day, who have reached the fourteen thousand since the beginning of this agreement in March. Watch out. Not fourteen thousand in total in the territory but fourteen thousand in the islands of the eastern Aegean. In other words, double those who really can accommodate on the basis of official structures. Fourteen thousand immigrants for whom very few things, unfortunately, you can do. Nor can you provide them with decent living conditions, nor can you adequately guard them and their children and, of course, nor can you create appropriate structures for unaccompanied children, nor can they be created and handled in time, nor can you quickly retreat them to Turkey. That is why, apart from a bad agreement, there is also a misimplementation of this agreement. How is this framework institutionally reflected? In the third report published just the day before yesterday in connection with the management of immigration and refugee, the Commission welcomes the reduction in flows from Turkey. And that's what it is. But it is a lack of reality. The other aspect of the reality is that the number of people trapped in the islands and in our country is increasing, enclaved that the agreement does not allow them to be transferred to the mainland before the applications submitted by refugees and migrants are handled. The first question, therefore, which we ask you on the basis of this topical question, is how you intend to deal with this issue. Will you, then, formally raise the question of reviewing the issue of the compulsory stay of entering the islands? And if so, when are you going to do it? Wait, Minister, can we have any new riots? Should tourism be completely destroyed? Unfortunately, there are phenomena such as this in Moria, sexual abuse and other refugees and immigrants? We only learned yesterday from foreign papers that Mrs Merkel rebuked the Greek Prime Minister for the delays in refugee. We do not know, of course, why he did this, but we can imagine them. A year ago you committed yourself to thirty thousand refugee accommodation places. Based on your own data, as derived from the relevant ministries, you host in organised structures about twenty-seven thousand. So the commitment you have made has not been implemented. As regards the relocation from November 2015 until today, four thousand four hundred refugees have relocated, which is a very small fraction compared to the thirty thousand. And, indeed, I ask you if you think that at the rate you're handling the applications this can happen in a reasonable period of time. And accept that Europe has not done what it had committed or at least made part of it. But what do you do about it? How high have you put it as a priority? What did Mr Tsipras respond, for example, when Mrs Merkel rebuked him in relation to the management of the refugee? Has the Prime Minister put the matter to his counterparts at the much-advertised Athens Conference? And if not, why didn't he include it in the official statement? Bulgaria, for example, has managed to reach the conclusions of the Bratislava Summit that Europe will protect its borders with regard to the refugee flows. And I ask you: is this an issue more important than helping Greece? Have you asked for a clear commitment and appeal to the other countries to assist in the provision of asylum-seekers? Finally, Mr Ministers, what is the government's response to the statement by the representative of the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the relocation agreement does not concern asylum seekers on the islands? Are you in a position to deny it? Because that, if it is true, changes all the data on the situation on the islands. With regard to the returns to Turkey of the asylum seekers, how many have been done so far? Five hundred and seventy-eight. How many of them are only Syrians? It's fifty-three. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will also use part of my dentistry. About the status rate, how many interviews have you been interviewed so far? You've got three thousand four hundred eighty-five. So let us summarize them: six months after signing the agreement, from the fourteen thousand young people in the islands you have just interviewed 1/5 and you have only returned to Turkey in 1/25. Six months after the agreement Turkey has entered into a contract of EUR 1.2 billion and has received EUR 467 million. We, in fact, do not know if you have already sent expenditure to pay for 2015. According to official figures, it must be about 1/11 of what we are entitled to from Community funds, while, on the contrary, you are using valuable resources of the state budget by the ministries in order to manage this issue. Six months later, you have not created special hosting structures for unaccompanied children, the presidential decree on the application of their protection procedure, the detection of their family and legal representation for asylum has not been signed. I ask you whether this situation is morally acceptable and whether it is a humane way of dealing with the issue on the part of the government. For all these reasons, Mr Ministers, our country, a country that has undertaken a disproportionately large burden on the refugee crisis, is now apologising to the international community. The harsh truth, then, is that the government has completely lost its initiative on the moves. Even in matters where our country is right in relation to the objections raised by Europe, it is totally unable to defend and communicate them to such an extent that it will in fact come out from above. So where are we driving? Unfortunately, in a new dead end. In the next few months, Mr Erdogan will push the leaders of the European Union to reduce the flow. Unfortunately, the victim of this intercystinda will be our country. If there is no agreement on the abolition of visas for Turkish citizens, unfortunately the increase in flows will be dramatic. So we expect to hear from you if you are prepared for that. As we also expect to hear how you are preparing for the possibility of reintroducing the 'Dublin II' - the Minister of Home Affairs officially put it - with the subsequent relaunch of immigrants towards the first entry gate, as Greece is, because then we will really be talking about a new nightmare. I hope, Mr President-in-Office, that you will give concrete and convincing answers today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u27	Mr Stavros Kalafatis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u28	Madam President, I may also use my dentistry. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, immigration - refugee until some time ago, we said that there is a chance that it might be a dead end. I believe that at the moment we are talking, the risks are no longer possible. They're real. They're not just visible. This is because it is demonstrated that the management of the refugee immigration by the government, as far as foreign affairs is concerned, can be characterised at least globally, as far as internally is concerned, can at least be regarded as inadequate. I shall avoid mentioning the revolts that characterise the government as regards their positions on what is happening, and in particular on the reactions of Turkey, where we really see in and from the behaviour of the neighbouring country, there is a great risk of the agreement being broken down. And in this case, the Government's reactions, whether by official means or by diplomatic responses, show that it does not understand the great danger that exists in this matter. And it is not only the risk of the collapse of the agreement in relation to Turkey's behaviour and the non-existent to the Greek side. There are other risks. Another bad aspect of reality, for example, tells us that new flows will be purely migratory and not refugee, as the evidence shows that more than 50% of the last flows are not coming from Syria. A little - very much, ladies and gentlemen, those who have left are already gone and the result is that, from now on, they will be pushed forward towards Greece, especially those who are illegal immigrants, who seem, in fact, to be trapped in our country. But to talk about other visible and immediate risks, Mr Ministers. One is ‘Dublin II’, revised as ‘Dublin III’, and the other is the one concerning the failure of the programme for the relocation of refugees. We all remember the recent statements made by the German Minister of Interior de Mezier and the Commission's reply, by the mouth of Natasa Berto, that, until its review, the Dublin II Regulation and revised as Dublin III should apply, which stipulates that the first country of entry of refugees - migrants within the European Union is responsible for handling their asylum claims. We must admit that there is a strong debate at European level on the possibility of reintegrating migrant return transfers, both from Germany and from other Member States to Greece. The representative of Europe itself even put an end to the suspension of the application of Dublin III, which has been in force since 2011, at the end of December 2016. The revision of the Treaty of the Regulation is expected to last for over two years. Where is the government's plan in the face of this visible danger? Has he been trained? What efforts have the Greek Government made and what concrete proposals have been made for the immediate revision of the regulation. Do you think it is enough for the Prime Minister's statements to twitter that the committee's proposals for the review are in the right direction? What efforts have been made even at bilateral level between the Greek Government and other European countries which react to the committee's proposal to create a balanced and compulsory refugee relocation mechanism in all the Member States of the European Union? Ladies and gentlemen, we still have to admit that the relocation programme is not being implemented. A year after the entry into force of the relocation programmes a total of about five and a half thousand people have relocated from Greece and Italy, four and a half thousand from Greece and a thousand hundred from Italy, which accounts for just 3.5% of the total number of sixty thousand relocations agreed on two-year horizons. Are we talking about relocation of another thirty thousand in the next year? Is that possible? Is the government ready for this? What do you say, Minister, in the recent proposal by the committee to transfer fifty-four thousand reception posts, intended for Greek relocation of refugees, to the Resettlement of Refugees programme from Turkey directly to the Member States. In other words, instead of accepting the Member States - refugees from Greece, they should accept in their place refugees directly from Turkey. What is the position of the Greek Government in this proposal? Is he at risk of implementing the relocation further this quasi-removal? Nothing has been said about this by the Greek Government. From early, as a New Democracy, we stressed the need to separate migrants from refugees, so that we can find ourselves in front of the ideological obsession of the government to consider all those who arrive at our borders indiscriminately refugees, ignoring European decisions, the definitions of the UN and the Geneva Convention, and to oppose the specific humanism of the Left, which we are already conducting in all directions with a sense of supremacy. The bad news, however, is that this humanism is not recognised at European and international level. Greece is being invoked by Amnesty International, which in a recent report reports that some sixty thousand refugees are still trapped in Greece under appalling and unsafe conditions. Similarly, at the beginning of the month British newspapers referred to a report by the Human Rights Watch extremely critical regarding the miserable living conditions of minors with the risk of abuse and sexual exploitation. It is clear that we have not been able to recognise any moral advantage from the international community, Mr Ministers. In addition, we are also critical of the foreign press about our inability to absorb European funds in support of migrants and refugees, as has recently been mentioned in a relevant report on the Eurobserv'ER website, which says that administrative difficulties on the Greek side are translated into terrible housing conditions. A little - very much, Mr Ministers, we are accused of miserable housing conditions, which are due to our own uncertainty as a country in terms of absorbing European funds available. We have referred extensively to the issue of the non-absorbing of European funds in the debate in July of our other topical question, in which, I regret to say, we did not receive adequate answers. In response to our committee to a question from our MEP, Mrs Vozeberg, it says that no payment expenditure has been submitted by the Greek Government under the national programmes of the FIFG and the FIFG, with the result that EUR 70 million, paid to our country as pre-financing, has been completely untapped. And the culmination in all the administrative inadequacy shown by the government regarding the financial management of the issue is the recent Commission's decision to send Greece a special management expert on refugee funds. Supervision and migration in simple words, Ministers. What do you answer that? What will be the responsibility of the expert? Why did the committee come up with this decision? Are there any suspicions of management failure or mismanagement? Mr President, in every area of management of the migratory crisis, you have proved to be unprepared and unprepared. Never in the seventeen months of your government has there been an early-track strategy to address the issues of the migration problem. There was no plan. The word 'prevention' is unknown to you. Managing inadequacy, failure to absorb European funds, inaccurate numbers of refugees in our country, with the responsible Minister confessing once again to four thousand, five thousand people who have escaped registration and we do not know where they are in the country. Thousands of unaccompanied or unwanted minors in terrible conditions. Delay in appealing, but also in examining asylum applications, European isolation with closed borders, fences and internal border controls, collapse and the advantage of our country's humanitarian person. And what about the government's answer to all of these and oral Prime Minister's? That immigration is a European problem and its solution is Europe's responsibility! Unfortunately, however, Mr Ministers - and I close - it seems that in the eyes of most of our European partners the European problem has come to be our country. Instead of Greece starting and shaping European developments together with the European institutions and partners, it has reached a scapegoat called for insufficient protection of Europe's borders, demonstrating unprecedented and ideological ignorance of the European context and developments, in danger of becoming our country, apart from a lasting store of souls and a cushion of the pressures that will be exerted by both the east and the west. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Metarakis has the floor, but he's not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u30	Madam President, it represents the President of the New Democracy at an event.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u31	Change the show. He'll talk last.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u32	Okay. Mr Consolas, Member of the Dodecanese of the New Democracy, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an important topical question tabled by Mr Katsafandos with another fifty two fellow Members. I am sure that the issue of immigration is not exhausted in this process. That is why, Madam President, I would like to ask you to give me the time of my dentistry in order to try to present a problem that is important, not just for the islands, not just for the Dodecanese, but for the territory. Mr Katsafandos systematically analysed this approach, like other colleagues, Mr Kefaloniannis, Mr Kalofatis. But, you know, this problem now, Mr Ministers, takes enormous proportions with huge consequences. Let me refer only to two issues in this debate, the impact that exist on the Aegean islands and on tourism, but also on the geopolitical dimensions, which the consequences seem to be very rapid in the course of time, even after the highlightations of international factors in the previous period. Your Government, Ministers, SYRIZA - ANEL Government, with absolute irresponsibility, creates explosive conditions in the Aegean islands. Who gave you the right, Minister, to build hot spots on the islands, especially on tourist destinations. You have an exclusive responsibility. This fairy tale that Europe gave you this right, or you were killed by Europe, is a tale that belongs to the past, will be judged by history. Stop the story, Minister. You're lying. Stop from the Prime Minister until the ministers are indifferent to testify. You know even your most loyal friends in the region state this dimension unequivocally, that it was your choice. Even if someone suggested it to you, what were you supposed to do? You know what it's important for the country's national policy. You are dogmatic, integrated into the logic of a legendary internationalism, a "speaking vineyard". Ladies and gentlemen, the hot spots even within this agreement, which you have made, should have been the structures for fingerprinting, recording, providing first-time humanitarian aid. In addition, Mr Timermans and Mr Avramopoulos were presented in Kos, at the meeting with productive bodies and in the government. But you've turned these centres into uncontrollable camps. You deceived self-government, local communities, entrepreneurs, citizens. The Mayor of Leros, you know, was friendly to you, dealing to you positively. He helped you in the first place. Besides, in Lero, Mr. Tsipras also recently went to entertain the fears of local society and self-government for the creation of hot spot. You spoke about staying a few hours, forty-eight or seventy-two hours, of illegal immigrants in Lero. Eventually not only did this happen, but these great hot spots were turned into uncontrollable camps, in people's warehouses. In fact, what does the Mayor of Lero say? "We have been deceived by the Prime Minister, a liar!" I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] I also testify in the Minutes and their view that these hotspots should be gone, because you know in the view of the self-government of Leros and the productive bodies, on the one hand, you have made self-government work for you, but, unfortunately, it is now deterrent. From the outset, the NGOs did not need to offer the aid they needed, because local society was aggregated with you. With the facts that have happened only one want the residents to leave the hotspot from Lero. I'm filing it in the Minutes. But the same is happening in the other islands - Mr Athanasios will say so - in the northern Aegean - has already said so - and so is Kos. I am tabling a practical decision from the producer bodies of Kos, saying that the hotspot should be removed from Kos. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] In Kos, the government has exhausted its vengeance. How? With MATs and violence. We all remember what happened. Why did the MATs go there? To punish those who protested in time, it was wrong to decide to create hotspots in Kos. Now what's going on in Kos? In a hotspot where they were transported from other islands - because transport from other islands is the residents of hotspots now, temporary against you - seven hundred seats today and more than one thousand eight hundred people. In fact, in Kos and Lero, you know, instead of listening to these people's voices, you punished them with the presence of hot spots. Minister, would France create hotspot in Nice, Spain in Ibiza, Italy in its holiday tourist areas? Oh, no. Therefore, this course has resulted in - keep this in the Minutes - tourism is dramatically reduced. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I asked, if you would like me to take the time of my dentistry. Tourism in Kos has a 15% drop in Lero 60%, in Lesvos minus 70% and the rest. I am also presenting to the Prime Minister a letter now sent by the Koskala authorities, who are now calling for specific measures to support tourism in order to avoid these phenomena and time. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] You know, because here again, two years later, the negative consequences of your policy on the tourism product. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's arguments are that we did not choose these islands but slave traders who disembark all these people. That's another lie, Minister. The government itself turned these islands into a attraction, initially by giving a paper to everyone free to travel, instead of separating refugees and illegal immigrants. If the latter are not detained for illegal entry into the country and are not being re-processed, then are not there any incentive for everyone to come? That's what you did. You gave motives to come. We are also listening, Minister, to the following: 'What do you want? Can we shut them up?’ Listen, say those other things. You're out of your mind. There are ways to guard the border without sinking boats. There is a way to make it dissuasive to stay. I told you before, Minister. We have discussed this in private. We have tabled proposals. But you believe that there are generally no borders and that the sea has no borders. Your Prime Minister said so too. That's what the country pays, Minister. These irresponsible and nationally dangerous positions have been formulated by the Prime Minister himself. What you do not understand is that the islands are the most sensitive national area. I make yesterday's statement to the Minutes - Mr Katsafada said so before - the Prime Minister of Turkey, the Turkish President of Erdogan, who, for the first time, so unequivocally questioned the Treaty of Lausanne and the Greekity of the Aegean islands. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] You have not shown us that you understand, Minister, that the islands are a sensitive national area. If you understood it, you wouldn't have turned the Aegean islands into a theater, so you could upload ideoleptic performances. You wouldn't have loaded them with so many immigrants. Because, you know what, Minister, there is a huge difference between refugees and migrants. The refugee problem is at risk of turning into a major problem for the country into a migration problem. You want me to remind you of something else that you lived in Kos, Minister. There is a Muslim minority in Kos, which has been living in peace for decades now. But here's something else going on. That's extremely dangerous. It's nationally dangerous. I am presenting to her practical concerns about this. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Another framework is developing in Kos and in the Dodecanese. You should know that for the wrong policies on education, the economy, there are compensatory issues in policy that can correct them. I fear that criminal negligence on national issues will be deterrent in time. Ladies and gentlemen, this irresponsible and nationally dangerous government encroaches on the islands and turns them into human warehouses, dismantles tourism and the local economy. I am tabling an additional report from German Foreign Minister Johannes Dimrod that the relocation programme - he says - does not apply to refugees and illegal immigrants on the islands. What did you agree, Minister, and you hid it and didn't bring it to the National Representation? Something's going on. Minister, you will have time from the Step to answer. Obviously, when you make agreements, you should also inform the House. You didn't. Mr. Katsafandos said so. I do not want to present you with a framework of questions that I and my colleagues have been asking for two years now. It's the first time you've been showing such a low-sensitive retardation. But above all, you must have democratic legitimacy for them. If you have made such an agreement as a government, we do not recognize it. We declare this from this Step. You are guilty and accountable to the Greek citizens and, above all, to the citizens of the Dodecanese and the northern Aegean. You are now revealing that you are entangled in these people on the islands by turning them into human warehouses. I'm telling you straight away. It is a matter of time before there are uncontrolled situations. It's a matter of time before they're dead. I'm afraid I'm afraid and I wish I'd be disproved. Then you will be accountable, Minister, for the European Union's agreement with Turkey is not certain to last. I'm curious to hear your plan today. What's plan II? The border is closed and they're not going to open. The resettlement agreement is neither operational nor will it be operational. Don't be hallucinated. You know what, right away, we have to decide to get these people out of the islands. There must be a more proportionate distribution in the country. You must close the uncontrolled camps, there must only be structures on the islands for registration and then transported and divided into refugees and illegal immigrants. Because the first, the first, the refugees, must enjoy temporary protection status, the second, the illegal immigrants, must be held in pre-experienced centres, send a clear signal of deterrence to all those who enter and move into the country and finish once and for all. It is certain that the government will rush to tell us that we are talking about these with extreme right-wing perceptions and that they are matters relating to the extreme right. Stay away from me, Minister. You know me and you know my course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Consola, it doesn't mean we'll be overtime.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u35	I shall conclude, Madam President. You know, you can also ask Mr. Glezo, your first colleague, if I have far-right payouts. What I want to say for sure, to respect time, Madam President, is that the country needs a national migration plan. Mr. Mitsotakis tabled a framework for proposals. Accept part of it. It needs study, it needs a society under which the country will enjoy peace and security and its citizens too. It needs a plan to halt illegal immigration under structured conditions, which will be shaped in the European area on our own proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor. Will you use your dentistry too?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u37	Yes, Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u38	You have the floor for exactly eight minutes, because there are many ministers here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u39	I always spend time with her. I have a good history. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago I was in this Chamber again on a topical question this time, discussing with the Minister responsible, Mr Musala, the suffocating situation that has been created in Chios, and since then time has just flown, slowly, without finding solutions. Then the Minister told me that it is not, he says, worldly the way in which I approach migration, that I allegedly call the world in uprising and that we should finally put back on the government's effort. That's exactly what Chios did, she put her back on. I wonder whether you will be insisting on the same line today, because since then we have had new serious incidents in Mytilini and in other places and, of course, we have had the great mobilisation of all the people of Chios without a party identity and your voters, Minister. It was a mobilization that some tried to blacken up, ignore it, but the world of Chios tells you very simply that the situation has overcome the endurance threshold, it has overcome the island's ability to host refugees and immigrants safely for both immigrants and residents. Ladies and gentlemen, from the very first moment on, Chios, like all the islands, embraced these people who crossed the border to avoid war in their country. Support the effort to create hot spot. I would remind you that Chios was the first island to open a hot spot and you, Minister, and the Prime Minister and Minister of National Defence and the Deputy Minister of National Defence, then you visited Chios many times and saw the support of the residents. The Municipality of Chios paid the hot spot purchase. You told me the other day that you paid for it. I have applied for documents, to be lodged with the ministerial decision that says you paid for the hot spot the purchase of the VIAL land. Chios believed you. What was your answer? You are now putting behind every social reaction a sign that they are political purposes. But don't try to put that sign on. It's a shame, because the Left has a different tradition. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a government proposal now, Chios from a hot spot to acquire three, and you said it would be far away from residential areas. You said that three mountains are intervening, but that's not the reality. The spaces proposed and there are many more of Chios' ability to withstand and are also close to residential areas. We see that right now the Viale in Chios is not policeed. There's no longer a prison post at the entrance. It's coming in-- whoever wants to come out, any illegal behavior can be done inside. That's why in Chios the whole society was there the day before yesterday. It was the whole municipal district, municipal councillors, regional councillors of all classes. The Chios Labour Center sent a letter to the Prime Minister and points out that the situation has come to nothing further than infringing, stealing and plundering the residents. Eventually it is not a turn, your policy is the problem and they all say it is, in the end, that creating two new hot spots is the wrong choice. We should have taken advantage of this period of relative calm, since the European Union-Turkey Agreement was signed, to dismantle the islands. Absolutely nothing happened to that. Today in Chios there are twice as many immigrants as the day that this agreement was signed. The island lifts a disproportionate burden. It currently raises twelfths of weight in relation to the national average. It tends to be 10% of the island's population. Finally, you realise that with this policy, we will make the Chiots, all the islanders, a minority in their place. Finally these policies, Minister, are throwing water into the xenophobic mill that we all condemn. We are helpless in the effort of the state to deal with the problem, but at last find solutions, solutions within the framework that we support. But the weeks pass, the months pass, every day new ones come and you can't find a solution. Don't just listen to the opposition, Minister. He sent a letter the day before yesterday from the Chios Police Officers' Association and clearly says that the situation has escaped from control, that what is happening on their island goes beyond it. What are they asking for? Support to staff and media and have a hosting structure that meets proper security rules. Do not be perforated, as the facilities are today. The same things had been said to you, and a few weeks ago the officers, the port officer, who are giving you a huge fight to deal with the crisis. The same is true of the workers in the Greek and European Asylum Service who are complaining about their working conditions, about the lack of protection for the same workers who do a difficult job. You will, of course, tell me, Minister, that you lack people. I received a call from the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction yesterday for transfers to the service. You are asking for the Central Asylum Service as a whole. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] If you lack an official to solve asylum problems, I will come, Minister. I'll come in in the morning to help if there's one missing and solve the problem! You said in the timely question we asked the day before yesterday that there were 200 officials at the Office of Asylum in New Democracy. You say, well done, that you made them four hundred eighty. While the streams have doubled, are you proud to double the Asylum Service and ask for a transfer? That's why the asylum doesn't go any further. I would remind you that in this Chamber you gave me an answer on 5 August, and you say that we intend to transfer, in cooperation with the relevant ministries, the entire population with a three-fold asylum system to dismantle the islands. How many people have received a threefold asylum from 5 August to today and how many have been transferred in this process? It's been two months since. It's your responsibility, Minister. It is Greek responsibility for the Asylum Service to function. I understand and you will say that we need support from Europe too. Of course we do. But it's our homeland. We have a responsibility to put our own people under international law, to meet the needs of this unprecedented crisis. If you need more people, ask for more people. Now that it's still a little bit calm. Because we don't know what's gonna happen. Madam President, I also have a reply yesterday to the 'AUGIOS' which honoured me with 'Hello, South Mitaraki' as a headline page. First of all, I would like to thank her for adding publicity to the peaceful mobilisations of the Hie People. The protest was not anonymised, as HISY said wrongly. That's right. The New Republic's HIO asked for the names to be entered. But let me remind you in passing that it remains the main shareholder of "AGEY" that wrote yesterday this article and it is also not right in democracy, ladies and gentlemen, to target persons with labels when they do not agree with your own policy. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u40	Thank you to Mr Metarakis for the time. Mr Athanasios, Member of the Lesvos, has the floor. Mr. Athanasios, would you use dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u41	The previous colleague spoke ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u42	He spoke for eight minutes. Now it's ten. You've got three minutes. You've fallen into less time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u43	Madam President, I am always pleased when you are chairing either the plenary or the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, but even though we have a good relationship, I wonder why you are always addressing me for the time, and this is the case in the Committee on Institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, the immigration issue is a major national and social problem that our country should have faced since the beginning of 2015. Today the situation is tending to take on enormous social tensions. My colleagues have already put themselves at the forefront of the timely question. I will try to express the anxiety of the inhabitants of our islands and, in particular, of Lesvos, of which I am from. I will quote concrete figures, I will ask specific questions about our islands, and I wonder, not whether I will receive any answers - because in the answers you are always prepared - but if what you will answer, they are immediately implemented if they will help local communities and if they will be a first step towards tackling these flows, which are flooding our country and, in particular, the islands of the northern Aegean. Mr Ministers, in the last two years Lesvos citizens have helped some four hundred thousands of potential refugees and economic migrants. Do you currently know exactly how many immigrants and refugees live in Lesvos? You will tell me that in the two structures - Moria and Kara Tepe - they are registered this week around - this morning - five thousand nine hundred eighty-five. Yeah, but how many more people live in houses, hotels, apartments? Is there a complete log? What's the total number? Then you tell us that the number of immigrants and refugees in our country is about sixty thousand. Let us assume that the figures are accurate and that the number of immigrants and refugees on the island is indeed around six thousand. You can explain to us what reasoning remains about 1/10 of refugees and migrants in Lesvos and indeed in terrible conditions, especially in Moria. Lesvos has an eighty - five - thousand population. In other words, it corresponds to a refugee or immigrant in thirteen to fourteen inhabitants. Is there any place else in this country like that? Isn't this a shameful burden, which you have placed on our island? Do you realize the consequences of perpetuating this situation for local society? You will answer that you have a specific programme for transferring some of these people directly to another area in the country or that you will eventually build more hosting places on the islands to dismantle existing areas. Have you really decided what to do? Will you do what Mr Mouszalas says or those of a diameter contrary to what Mr Xydakis says, or simply nothing, on the substance, as you have done in your favourite tactics over the last two years, which you have the responsibility of government of the country? I am convinced that you will be consumed in fine answers, which will simply confirm how perfect and surprising your policies have dealt with the issue. Ask, like, the inhabitants of our island, who have exceeded their human limits. Who does the government represent? Finally - if he wishes to leave the border open, if he sees everyone as potential refugees - we have also confused the issue of how one takes refugee status, but I have told it another time - if he is not interested in where those who come are going, what views has the government expressed? Do you share these views? I am not talking about Mr Muzala specifically, but about the government's position in general. I'm getting clear. Do you know that tourist arrivals in Lesvos this year were reduced by 70%? that the economy of the island has been destroyed, that you have abolished all concepts of islandity? Remember, or do you just whistle indifferently, because you don't care what happens to our islands? All this is impossible not to know. You are well aware of them, and all your Members from these regions are aware of them and must inform you, but instead of taking initiatives to normalise the situation, they are just trying to muddle and take positions that lead to a division of society. They characterize right-wing and xenophobic - I mention specific elements, Mr Colleague - ordinary citizens who protest peacefully and without violence, people whose daily lives have changed rapidly, fearing of the daily events that have been destroyed by the downfall of the economy. We have already had major attacks on the mobilisations carried out in Lesvos lately. I had to get some press releases. I have to present them to you in view of what I'm about to say. Press Release on September 16, 2016: And I would like you to see, ladies and gentlemen, if there is anything far-right in here, or a match with racist perceptions. Also, there are press releases on September 19 and September 20, 2016. What was the approach we had from the government officials? I'm sorry to say it, but inaccurately and misleadingly my dear colleague from Mytilini of SYRIZA said that I gave Lesvos and the inhabitants of the Golden Dawn on a show "THE COKINO". In fact, he went further and said that I said that this is how we "muslimize" the island. He also said: "So, with these places Mr. Athanasios gives a gift to the inhabitants of the Golden Dawn." These are statements, Mr Pallie, yours, has been mentioned by HUNGARY - on a 'STO COKENO' show and I want you to tell me when this has happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u44	In the episodes in Moria.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u45	Mr Toskas says that "we throw oil on the fire" with the statement made - listen, Mr Mousala, what Mr Toskas says about me - and he also says, "I do not know if Mr Athanasios is trying to help create a "milk Mauru" front of the Baltaku type." Please read the announcements and press releases, which are perfectly in line with the line that we put at the Samos Conference by the President of our party. And please read all the previous statements by Mr. Mitsotakis, to see what our position on immigration is. Finally, I will put forward these photographs to see the situation that prevailed, ladies and gentlemen, for what was the cause of making the peaceful course and protest of the people of Moria and Mytilini, to see what prevails in Lesvos with the fires, to see that they turned the olive trees into firewoods and the rapes taking place in Moria.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Athanasios, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u47	I shall conclude, Madam President, in a minute. However, the problem remains and is global. What's your strategy? Will you take a substantial measure to strengthen local society? Will the inhabitants of the islands, especially Lesbos, finally be relieved of the misery in which you have taken them? I want, Minister, concrete answers not only for me - that is the last - but above all for the citizens of our islands. Your Government must mobilize, look at the world of islands in the eyes and give it solutions, so that the citizens of Lesvos and other islands can learn your intentions, so that they can know if they can believe in something, but handcuffed that will get them out of today's stature. Tomorrow I hear from the press that the Prime Minister is calling us to Maximos at the request of the Mayor of Lesvos. I don't understand what that means. Of course, if it is decided that we should go, we will be present, if we agree on parties. But I say this: have you not had a programme to implement? What are we waiting for now? Do you have an agenda, a programme, so that we can see what your proposals are, how we can process them and answer them, or will this be an impressive move to disorientate the whole situation? Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you have led the country to a dead end in all respects, in the economy, in the refugee and in foreign policy. It's time, since you can't handle all these problems, leave power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u48	Last Member of Parliament, Ms Sophia Vultesis, MP in Athens. Mrs Vulture, you have the floor for three minutes too. I guess you're not gonna use...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u49	I will use, Madam President, so that I can complete my thoughts. In my view, the problem of the government is always the same and is also the case in this case. Her problem, i.e., is that she always wants to show propaganda that she did something better than all the previous ones, i.e. "the third memorial is better than the other", "the superstition is better than the TIAD. Now you have to show that you've done something better than immigration. SYRIZA has arrived to let him understand, to say, about, that it was very good that NATO came to the Aegean. On your day and NATO has become a dove of peace from where you set it down! Minister, it's time to deal with reality. As much as that does not suit you, the agreement concluded between the European Union and Turkey was a genogram of need. It included promises to Turkey, which cannot be made, and now it is up to Greece by the Prime Minister to call on Europeans to implement visa issues, to give money to Turkey. In other words, Greece has come, instead of trying to solve its own problems, to try to solve Turkey's problems with the European Union, because this agreement has been made. You must admit, Minister, that this agreement would be worthwhile if it were to open the borders. The border has not been unilaterally closed by the countries of the western Balkans, not only because there is a statement by Mr Tusk in this regard, that this was a 'eight' decision, but also because we cannot imagine the countries of the western Balkans with what we know about the geostrategic region, that they would do their heads and not listen to the rest of Europe. The borders have now shut us down, because they have seen - and we have said it publicly - that a million and a half million have passed here and at some point have decided to close the border. This agreement, I say, only works at the expense of Greece. I do not know if you now come to tell me 'and what do you want to do?' Politics is his art predicts. You have followed an agreement which you have not taken part in and accepted conditions of caging in the islands and not at the same time opening the borders. Since Turkey was going to reduce its flow, you had no problem with these hundred and fifty coming to Greece a day. That would be within the framework of the agreement. Why are the borders being closed at the moment, after the flows have been reduced and celebrated? I say this because that is where the problem arises. The Prime Minister cannot go to the UN, go to the mini-refugee summit in Vienna and discuss only what the European Union should do in relation to Turkey, namely implement, the Prime Minister, her commitments to Turkey, give financial aid, liberalise visas. So the Prime Minister said that the visa should be opened, it's a commitment. So what do we do now? We have the problem and we will look to see what the European Union is doing with Turkey and if they find them among themselves, because they in haste said that they will fill up visas with Turkey and now they have taken it back. And you are now seeing the FINANCIAL TIMES publication. Yesterday the government simply made a non paper and said that the European Union is not okay with its obligations toward us, it has not sent the officials it has said. He was gonna send four hundred. He sent nineteen. And so long why don't you say it? So many trips you've gone. Why does the Prime Minister deal with whether the European Union respects its commitments towards Turkey and not respects its commitments to Greece? And to tell you something, Minister, it doesn't matter how many people go by anymore, because I've heard you say it. It doesn’t matter whether it’s a hundred or a hundred fifty, because these hundred - hundred fifty every day, are trapped. If they weren't locked up, if they had opened the border, then yes. The Agreement shall run from 20 March. It's been over six months. You have now remembered to say that for six months Europeans have not been applying it and we have a problem with the asylum procedure. And as if not all of this were enough, you finally know that the agreement is being observed for Greece only in terms of closed borders and caging. You know the numbers, not to tell them. It's ten thousand on the islands. It's doubled. The managing body says that the tonnage on the islands is seven thousand four hundred and fifty, so you've doubled. We started to have fifty thousand in Greece and we've exceeded sixty thousand. So we are no longer talking about an agreement, even if there are few numbers, because if another five thousand are caught up, then the situation will become unbearable. We don't know what's gonna happen. Minister, from the outset I had thought that some in the government saw the refugee as an opportunity to serve as a 'days' and economic gains. It is the only hot money - everything else is in the memorandum - that comes to Greece and I don't know if the problem was raised with that purpose. In recent times there have been too many complaints. You haven't answered the complaints. You have no response to the complaints made by the former Secretary-General, Mr Buddouris. This is not done by knighting, you must answer. Is it true? Is he lying? Is it right that in Norway each refugee costs thirteen thousand a year and in Greece fifteen thousand? You cannot leave this, saying 'I am a knight, I do not answer'. He needs an answer, because what he says is slandering defamation. You cannot go beyond it for the sake of your authority, because Mr. Kammenos told us that he needed ISO for the feeding of refugees, because it must be so much meals, it must be isotonic, because they are Muslims, etc. Did this feeding have acquired ISO SYRIZA - ANEL? You have to answer. The charges are too heavy. I don't know if you're doing this today. However, I expect a public answer to the complaints that refer to suspicious moves and money. You may not know that, so you may not have done this investigation, so in practice I'm filing the course of the flows just before the deal, after the deal, after the coup in Turkey and later, so that anyone who is interested in it, see that things are not as you tell us, since there is caging and closed borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u50	The questioners' circle is over. Now the government's cycle opens. Because there are three ministers, the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Mousalas, the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs Mr Xydakis and the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr Vitsas, I propose that not all the ministers, one after the other, should take the floor, but that parliamentary representatives should also be represented in order to have a variety. We also need to take care of the time, because if you all take 20 minutes you're entitled to, it'll be suffocating.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u51	That's right, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u52	At the end of the day, all the questioners who have used their dentistry will leave and stay before empty bearings. Mr. Muzala, how much time do you want from the twenty minutes you're entitled to?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u53	I don't know, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Muzala, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am usually low and I will try today to be. Despite acidity, I have to admit that I have discerned low tons of you, so we can stand up to the quality and substance of the arguments. Sometimes I can make some cold joke, you'll forgive me. Every time I come here, it's just the same thing. All the axes of your speech are: 'unreserved borders', 'you invited them', 'you went out and shouted 'come', 'you called a million refugees', 'you did not notice the border', etc. We have answered that. It's a lie. There's no point in saying it again. We did not make the war in Syria, it did not fall down Aleppo because of us, it did not reduce the costs of UNHCR in Syria for this thing, it was not our fault that a piece of immigration was stuck with the refugee. You know that. You use it every time. Let me now tell you about the unguarded borders. I have here the whole of arrested illegal immigrants, as reported by the police. It concerns those who politically call 'irregular immigrants'. Legally, illegal immigrants remain. So I say that in 1995 - it was not government, SYRIZA - that was two hundred and fifty-four thousand three hundred eighteen. In 2000, we went closer - there were two hundred and nine thousand four hundred and three. In 2014 - even closer - was seventy - seven thousand sixty - three. The possibilities you had until 2010 for illegal immigrants to be detained were - together with the police stations - five thousand. Then Corinth was created and they went to seven, eight thousand. Where are the others? In 1995 there were two hundred and fifty - four thousand. Go and take advantage of all detention places and you've kept five thousand for being able. Where are the other two hundred fifty? Where did you have them? Where did you host them? Why didn't you build detention centers? It's not in Greece. Within 15 years four million have been spent on your governments. Is he here? Where is he? How did you guard the borders when they came in and when they came out? You didn't do anything, and we're paying for that. Host positions you had a thousand in 2010, Mrs. Vultesis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u56	You were looking for the Albanians. But you're talking about another period, another time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u57	In 2010 you had a thousand hospitality places, Mrs. Vultesis. The European Union was condemned, because you had to make two and a half thousand hospitality places. In 2014, from a thousand hospitality places, we reached a thousand hundred and ninety - six. That's what we received. These are the hosting places. ‘Health bomb’. How many times haven't we heard of it? It didn't run out, not by accident, but because we're on top. 'No plan'. There's always a plan. You may not agree, but there is a plan. The accident doesn't create situations like that. ‘Criminality’. A small increase up to the deal, a greater increase in the islands. In your years, gangs were the front page in all the newspapers. One thing which I will also tell you is that you are responsible for us for Europe. Let's go see our plan. At diplomacy level, we raised the problem from Greek to European. Mrs Vulture, we have spit out blood for Europe not to say, 'You have the problem'. The problem is a European that happens on Greek territory. That was the huge diplomatic victory in Europe. That changed the situation. This has brought Europe into solidarity, whether or not limited, even with the problems that exist. We have been accused on several occasions of FRONTEX and NATO. We've always asked for FRONTEX. You know that thing. NATO helped, too. We were charged with EASO. We always asked for EASO, it was always gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u58	When did you ask?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u59	Always, Mrs. Swollen. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u60	Not always.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u61	Well, now I'm saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u62	Outside, you said FRONTEX. What are you talking about? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] The Minister is addressing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u63	No, I'm not addressing you. When I address you, I use your name.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u64	Mrs. Vultimatis, you have the experience! We're not having a dialogue! Hang in there! That's not how it works!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u65	You said all day, 'outside FRONTEX'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u66	So I say that all this has led to the European Union-Turkey agreement, which, regardless of its enormous difficulties, has helped our country. This document will show you. These are the flows before the deal. These are the flows after the deal. You haven't decided. Three of the New Democracy Members have said that the agreement is bad and that it is not of interest to us. The others, logically, said the position of the New Democracy. I would like to say something to you: we have tried very hard in a Europe where 7/10 of European states are led by the People's Party and by the Social Democracy. I imagine - and I have said this before - that when you meet at the People's Party every time, you are making the same requests with us. But they can't. Why do you blame SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u67	Because you're ruling.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u68	Are you accusing SYRIZA of being unable to convince the 7/10 governments in Europe of all the issues that you belong to the same parties? That doesn't make any sense. You've made up your mind. You want SYRIZA to fall. And for SYRIZA to fall, you'll use anything. However, it would be better to be able to stand on reasonable arguments. As far as dealing with the refugee problem is concerned, I will tell you this: it has been a million people. At first we had three EURODACs. We couldn't control it. The program closed with 100% recording control. On the paper, which I showed you before, you don't have 100% recording control. The European Union's paper is this report, where it speaks of 100%, full identification of people coming in. We didn't have squares and parks. Whenever we had, we dealt with them. I remind you of Mytilini and Victoria. On the contrary, in previous years, we have constantly had squares and parks, and once a year we have had the struggle for the recapitulation of cities. Been beaten up, they became "sweeps". In Igoumenitsa, in Patras it became a mess, as in the other ports. They were delaying vapours, etc. All of this was also costing. I don't blame you for that. I'm in a position now to know the difficulties. But what do you blame? Something you couldn't do. And what does he guarantee you'd do it? There's no past that says you could do it. On the contrary, there are things that have been done and have not been done before. We therefore have a full record and we have done so with social responsibility, with the participation of the Civil Society and with solidarity that has not been seen anywhere else in Europe. The illegal border closure happened. You must know that whatever Mr Tusk says, the border was closed by the countries of Visegrad and the countries that were in the Balkans. You should know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u69	The President of the European Council says so. Is he lying? Unless Tusk's lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u70	Mrs. Vulture, you should've known. Sixty thousand people were captured. In that case, we still had a plan. Within three months we created thirty thousand hospitality places, good, bad, better, worse. We were able to provide three times a day with food to all, elementary protection to all, elementary health control to all, just above the elementary level of public order to all, things that ensure the safety of the Greek population. It is true, of course, that we overloaded some municipalities. Let's say, Thessaloniki, Macedonia, accepted 60%. We've already downloaded seven thousand people down, and we're going on. We dismantled the Ensemble within two months. You were yelling for the Loyalty when she existed. You're disappointed we broke up with her. In France, seven years Calais is not falling apart. It remains and goes today as a central election issue. Seven years Calais is not falling apart! Patra and Igoumenitsa, with six hundred people, have never been dispersed except when the reverse flow began. As far as Piraeus is concerned: Dissolved. It's late, but Piraeus was dissolved, and the port is fine. We didn't make it in Greek. We've cleared the scenes from the outside. We continue our efforts. It was a big tumor. He was unprecedented. In 2010-2014 we had a hundred ninety - six thousand hospitality places. From April to June we had thirty thousand hosting places plus ten thousand UNHCR apartments, which were taken after our own intervention in Europe, because we had to have these too. They owe us ten thousand more and we go on. It's a complete recording. Whoever exists in Greece right now, we know him exactly. We have his picture, we have the name he gave us, we have his fingerprints, and we know what camp he's about. And I say 'about' because he's moving, he's free, he doesn't have to go to sleep at night. We have also checked him out in all European systems. We are working with all Intelligents and Police, as foreseen by the European Union. In fact, I have to tell you that we are creating a system of our own, so that by checking it can be found on all the islands, for which we are getting a prize as third parties in design in Europe. The situation in the inland is ugly and under control. We now go to the islands: that's where we have a problem. The island people are tested. And now I'm talking to islanders more than opposition. And they are tested by two things: First of all by the overpopulation, which is not exactly like that. They had phases where there were more people. You know, Mr. Athanasios, that Mytilini with fifteen thousand. There were times when we had seven thousand arrivals a day. Of course, the islanders are right. I'm not saying that to abuse them. What's changed? The population gets locked up, it's been a while, it's running out of money. He's gone to drink water, leave to Europe, but the source is dry, and he's angry, he's desperate, he's anything. You're right that the flow is changing. While we had 80% refugee, we now have about 70-80% Prima facie migration. This creates a new quality, from which the islands and household refugees and immigrants are tested. What's the plan we can have? Here I am addressing you, too, the representatives of the New Democracy. A very easy solution, with populist tone, is to leave the islands, fall the deal. That can't be. That's not your position. If we take them from the islands, the Europe-Turkey agreement falls. We're going back here! You don't want that. Some of you do it easily. Not everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u71	It's not like that. We're not interrupting you from tactics.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u72	Keep practicing and don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u73	But don't move the finger when you haven't finished...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Kikilia, don't spoil it now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u75	So what do we say? To leave the islands? Do you want the deal out of the way? Should we go back here? Is that going to save Mytilini, Chios and Samos? Is that going to save our country? No, she won't. It'll cause a worse problem. Because now the border's closed. It will give a relief line and it will cause a worse problem. What do we propose and what are we trying to do? And I say 'we're trying' because we really don't always do it with 100% success, nor are we bourgeois fighters making every bunny out of our hat. We're trying to analyze things in a scientific way. We are therefore talking about decongestion of the islands tested by the population. What population can we get from the islands on the basis of the agreement? We can take those who are judged to be forbidden to return to Turkey. We've been starting for 20 days and slowly - we're gathering them down. The move cannot take place massively and violently, because other kinds of uprisings will be provoked, and it can also be a full factor for others to come from Turkey. The move will take place discreetly, slowly, on the basis of the law. Who else can we transfer? We can transfer unaccompanied minors. Come to the unaccompanied minors. We received three hundred seats for unaccompanied minors. Right now, there are eight hundred fifty positions. I imagine the next two months will have become about a thousand two hundred, with new tools we use. And we're going on. If I tell you that within the next six months we will build positions, normal structures for a thousand 200 minors, who are no longer in prison, but are in camps and hot spots, who shouldn't be, I would lie to you. And whoever comes to tell you that in six months' time I'll solve the minors' problem, he'll lie to you. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] Can I tell you something you already know? When you tell me, 'define the issue of minors', you're making me a challenge to make it look like I don't solve it. Yeah, I can't solve it in six months. But you know that thing. You've been in this position. Where were the minors? It was in the three hundred places you had. And the rest was on the road, in bad conditions and all. I don't know if I moved before the finger. I don't usually do that. There's no point in moving your finger and telling you. I'm not criticising you about the past. I'm not trying to blame you for something. I'm trying to show you a situation and I'm trying to tell you you know it. You've lived through it. You know that. And you're just accusing yourself of why a charge has to be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u76	We don't blame you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u77	For the population, then, that is what we can do. What else do we do? We are making a huge diplomatic effort to be able to decongested from the islands of the agreement, which should not be made on the basis of the agreement. In a month and a half, I, Mr Xydakis and Mr Toskas have seen thirteen ministers of the European Union. With the exception of one, I think everyone else belongs to your European parties, to the People's Party and to the Social Democracy. We are trying to get the agreement to be extended so that it can be detained, in closed centres, for a number of immigrants to be transferred to the mainland. That is why, beyond these thirteen ministers of the European Union, I have been to Turkey twice. The Prime Minister and Erdogan had a conversation in New York. Yesterday we wrote Mr. Tsavusoglu a letter. We are moving forward and pushing too hard. Don't criticize us. Press within your party, in the People's Party, press within the Social Democracy. We are not happy to accept our request. We have difficulties. We have difficulties from those with whom you sit one day before the meeting and you discuss SUMMIT, the meeting of Ministers or anything. Please convey this view, please, if you want it to be done, if we do not want the agreement to fall. I have also arranged for next month and we are again making an approach to the issue of inland transport with the Parliamentary Groups of all the parties in the European Parliament, with Commissioners and Mr Schulz. Strengthen our efforts. We have asylum gaps, EASO. We've received a sanctuary with two hundred thirteenths. We have an asylum with six hundred. You can't from an asylum of two hundred thirteen to go to an asylum with a thousand two hundred. We have the same asylum director you had before, and you and the others had one. We therefore agree that this is an excellent director. He's in danger of swallowing it. Our plan is this: we got a sanctuary with two hundred. We have an asylum with six hundred. We'll double our power on the islands in October. We'll add another 100% in November. We ask the four hundred EASO people directly to come here. If that is the case, we will have the possibility in October - do not consider them binding on the exact balance of a pharmacist - to start again a hundred or fifty people a week. This is a small relief for the islands, it is a powerful message for smugglers and slave traders. If this plan continues, in November we will be able to transfer two hundred and fifty a month from the islands to Turkey. This starts to dismantle the problem. So strengthen the country's position within your groups, within your parties, to have EASO come and get the help we need instead of saying, "Where is the asylum?", "increased" etc. And instead of sitting right now and saying to you, "Hey, you two had two hundred and we have six hundred." That doesn't make any sense. The point is to solve the problem. So the solution is the European Union. Let's see what else we're doing on a diplomatic level. You're saying Tsipras said about the visa. He didn't say that. Mr. Tsipras says the government's position. The government's position is that the agreement is Europe - Turkey. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We take all our responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u78	The visa must be opened!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u79	The Prime Minister says 'Europe must take its responsibility and Turkey must take its own responsibility'. And on that I imagine you have no objection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u80	Thank you. Mr. Kikilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, first of all I would like to say that we are pleased that you are here today. Indeed, this is the first time you have been accumulated in a timely question. You, of course, Minister, are always here. But I say you're in a quorum. You are three ministers of three different ministries for a timely question, plus your staff. This may indicate that you are currently aware of the criticality of the situation. I wonder: Minister, if you'll excuse me, but it's obituary to change your rhetoric at least. I have seen you politically in Parliament and in the fort in the past few months, and I must say that I did not expect it. You know - the Secretary of our parliamentary group, Mr Tsiaras, has pointed this out, and I agree - the low tone, or perhaps the avoidance of outrages or the non-use of populist rhetoric and arguments, does not imply any misuse of arguments or the oppression of Officerial counter-population. On the contrary! And since some have shallow memory, I would like to remind you that in these structures and in dealing with a problem in the country, such as migration and refugee, New Democracy from 2012 to 2014, with wars moving to Syria and Iraq, it had unfortunately to deal with your colleagues and comrades surfing on the surf of populism, hospitality structures, closed return centres etc. So then they provokedly saluting the way the Greek Police successfully dealt with the issue of refugee - immigration, the way the Port Authority fought - are the same people who are doing it now - and saved lives in the Aegean, but also the way in which our islanders dealt with the issue. It is a long way from the way we act in your days. Parasagne! I also heard you say on several occasions to talk to our colleagues in the People's Party. This, Minister, is very disgraceful, when the current Prime Minister and Head of the Officerial Representation Mr. Tsipras smashed the New Democracy government - he and all the others - throughout Europe and throughout the world two and a half years, while Kyriakos Mitsotakis honestly and boldly supported the positions in what he had to do with what was agreed on at the Council of Political Heads - which, for some time, you were there - under the President of the Republic with documentaries and old men in Europe. And she's ahead of the national position well above any party position or micropolitics. So instead of going out and saying, "Greats, thank you for being serious and we were graphic, thank you for actually supporting an effort, while we plundered to bridle the vote of the Greek people, so that we could be here to say these fairy tales now", you move us and the finger. A little shy. And to come to an agreement, because I do not like to talk in general - I do not see the head of your coordination, the one you have put, Mr. Kritsis, to tell us that you have control over structures, that you know where everyone is in the country and so on. - I'm going to set an example for people to understand. We're talking to each other here. I do not care, I fully respect all my fellow Members, from the youngest to the oldest in the Greek Parliament, you and the whole process. But there is a world in Greece that fights everywhere. And it is, I imagine, a common will and an effort of all three of you and me and all of our colleagues to serve his interests. So when people hear that on 25 September sixty thousand eighty-seven refugees were registered with zero arrivals, on 26 September sixty thousand eighty-sixteen and thirty-eight arrivals, on 27 September another thirty-nine arrivals, but the number fell rapidly to sixty-five-eight, on 29 September is now only sixty-four thousand forty-four, while there were fifty-one people who entered the border, do you know what he thinks? That you're mocking us. What count? You say you know on the face, face, typography and so on. Who's inside the country and where it's about. You don't know. You have agreed under the President of the Republic that you will, as it is your obligation, separate the refugees who are applying for asylum and who are entitled, by economic immigrants, illegal immigrants, irregular immigrants, illegal immigrants, anyone can say it as they wish, and have not done so. If you had done so, if you had the will, you would probably have the opportunity to relaunch a number close to the fifty thousand, which we did two years from 2012 to 2014. Domestics shut up have returned two thousand. The agreement is in danger of collapse, not because colleagues on the islands are struggling. And I am passing away, no extreme voice I approve, no one who tries to step on thin strings on national issues I do not approve. But I fully support their agony and effort, of anyone, and of the last inhabitants of the islands up to northern Greece and central Macedonia, who are struggling for him, for his children, for prosperity, for security and for society, for civil society, for democratic society, because our fellow citizens showed humanism and the attitude of Lebanese and old-fashioned and took over from the base. So don't bother them with what you're doing. Not everyone is really the same. And we're not the same, because otherwise we acted. What, then, is going on in our spaces? Since you have not separated them, you cannot reach agreement with the embassies of these countries and you cannot relaunch any economic migrants, illegal immigrants, as our Constitution, the European Constitution and the laws of the state expressly and unequivocally portray our islands and our country. That is why you cannot convince our partners, who are actually blocking and really responsible, that the relocation must go ahead. If you had separated them and knew that these are the refugees, they are controlled, they deserve it, the pressure would obviously have been too much. Because you are running chaotics and you do not have control, you have lost control of him, and that is why this procedure cannot go any further. A cornerstone of the Europe-Turkey Agreement, which, as your Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, was informed, is that asylum seekers on the islands after 4 March, will avenge their appeal to grade 1 and grade 2 and will return along with economic immigrants - illegal immigrants. For every one who returns, one will go to Europe. And I ask you: Domestics have come back to six months, two thousand and all. Based on procedure to grade 1 and grade 2, how many have returned, how many applications have they been dealt with at the Asylum Division to grade 1, grade 2, to return? Nobody. That's why your German friends are looking at you, Minister. Merkel doesn't talk to me every day. With Mr. Tsipras, he speaks and enjoys and hugs. So that is why you are being searched, and things have begun and turned, like the other Europeans, because in six months, on the basis of the asylum procedure, no one has returned to Turkey, so they are ponding on the islands. Of course, when you say that you are in control, I imagine you haven't spoken to Mr. Toska recently. I guess. What should I start with? What? Athens: December 12th, August 27th, 29th: Episodes and stabbing between immigrants, gangs of Moroccans. Piraeus: 17 March, 31 March: Immigrant injured, stabbed, refugees - immigrants began episodes. Greek: 11 December: Moroccans attack economic migrants, 3 May: Some refugees - immigrants smuggled to each other, guns came out, 14 July: Complication between refugees at the old airport. Thessaloniki: February 7: Episodes between residents and the army, April 6: Retirement from refugees and immigrants of the national road, May 14: Micro-Epiesodes were caused to the new hospitality centre, May 25: Intensity prevailed in the refugee center in Fessa warehouses in Oriokastro, May 25: Episodes in Bajori, June 14, what to read first. Here are twenty-five pages. Kilkis: 30 May: Complication between refugees in clipboard camp, bloody tide between refugees in southern Kavala. You're in control, I'm not talking about it! Type: 27 November: Episodes between refugees, Army and Police, 3 and 4 December: Serious episodes between refugees, immigrants and police, 29 February: Episodes to open the border in Skopje, 18 May: About three hundred people were pushed, vandalized, etc. Verona, New Monastery, Leros, Lesvos! Lesvos: 15 June, 8 July, 4 September, 26 April, 10 May, 18 May, 1 June, 4 September: The absolute control you have in the country, I am not discussing it! Chios: 26 to 29 May 2016: Wild clashes, 1 to 8 April: Episodes between refugees and migrants, 8 April: Episodes in Chios. 26 May, 27 May, 6 June, 2 August, 5 August, 9 August, 14 September. Samos: I do not have time to read them, my speech will end. Let's go to another topic now, because Mrs. Vulture asked you and you don't answer and because the SYRIZA - ANEL government defied the Greek people's vote and came to power by ringing the finger of transparency and purity. I can't imagine you leaving, Minister. Wait till you hear it first and you'll answer it. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u82	Do you control me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u83	Oh, no. I want you to be here and listen. I don't want you to go because you tried to check before me about what I'm saying. Well, sit down, over there and listen now. Don't go. That's where you were.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u84	We're checking on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u85	To answer now, Minister, over here you're talking to SYRIZA. Let's see. Does it blame the government for irregularities, scandals and irregularities in refugee - immigration? Let's see, Mr. Xydakis. The Qualified Opposition accuses her? Is it, then, in the context of the populism and the micropolitical situation which prevails? Well, let's see. "Syrians denounce symbols that they make money from the feeding of refugees." Serres. I'm filing it. "Bisk with the feeding on hot spots. Reply Vitsa - Kammenos: Heads to fall." I'm filing it. "Storm from the complaints made by Mrs Stuboulis for a member of SYRIZA who has undertaken a feeding project". I'm filing it. All the neo-democratics are denouncing you. Lesvos: "Procedures for NGOs that operate without any certification, do volunteers and Lesbos institutions and take the money". I'm filing it. Dodecanese: The ‘DIMMOCRATIC’: ‘Procedures that the competition for the feeding of refugees to hot spots is ‘photograph’. The New Democracy all! "What they denounce businessmen in the Dodecanese for the feeding of the refugees", for your "imagers" over there. Kilkis: "Having Refugees: "They're throwing Kilkisiot businessmen". I'm filing it because it's obviously an isolated incident. It's not happening all over Greece! Pieria, Litochoro: "They gave SYRIZA youth camping to immigrants in over-collecting it". I'm filing it. 'Kosmoslarissa': 'Report by Larisaian contractors for a project of 700,000 euros in Koutsochero'. I'm filing it. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kikilias, presents for the minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Even if all this had not happened in the country, the Prime Minister appointed a Special Secretary to your Ministry, Mr. Buddour. Mr Buddouris is not a political person, neither in the New Democracy nor in any other party. He's your partner. You had him there a few months ago. I do not adopt, Minister, nothing, but nothing at all. I feel, however, that it is a pity to the Greek people, as your colleague, Mr Vitsas, will assure you, that the national budgets for your inability to absorb European funds, are also paid to the Ministry of National Defence code for feeding and to the Ministry of Public Orders for safekeeping. While the Greeks are sighing and the Greek family is carrying a burden that does not account for it at this time, the ministers pay from the national budget for the refugee - immigration when the other one has not to pay HNPH and the special taxes. So it's extra taxation for the Greek. If I were you, I would call the prosecutor and say to him: 'Come here, my man, because I am very clear, I want you to check everything'. If any of the New Democracy Minister had been denounced for one millimetre of all this, you'd be on the benches and you'd be dancing. He couldn't get into his department. Here, too, the Special Secretary himself denounces overcompensation, denounces your specific colleague or partner - I beg your pardon - which he says "plays all the game". I repeat that I do not adopt anything, but I do not break anything. I ask you, don't you have an answer for all this? The Greeks carry all this weight on his back, he cannot breathe, he is a humanist and very proud and supported a second major crisis beyond the economic crisis. Shouldn't we and you be accountable to him for what might have happened? I hold back then. I'm figuring out the evidence of the episodes, so you don't say I'm making it out of my mind. It's evidence from the Greek police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Xydakis has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity to have a civilised debate, I hope. The debate has these aspects, fortunately. But there is an asymmetry in the approaches of the New Democracy colleagues. And unfortunately, it is a global, international issue. It's number one on the American government's agenda along with security, it's number one on the United Nations agenda, it's number one on the European Union's agenda. This shows the size, stubbornness and difficulty in resolving and the long-term, long-term solutions that are needed. I would always expect that there will be such a long, serious and strategic response from the major opposition and from the minors and from all the Greek political forces, on an issue concerning our country, its stability, its humanity, the level of its culture and the examinations it gives, and its management, the administration itself. So there is no point in comparing what happened to the governments of New Democracy and the Governments of SYRIZA. It makes sense to see what we're doing now. But if you want to get into this game, about the complaints you're saying and what happens, if we have clashes and clashes, we must remember with grief that Golden Dawn was born in Saint Panteleimon, at the places of illegal immigrants, where illegal immigrants were tortured in police departments. This neonazi motif was not born in government, which agitates the political life of the place. We must not have the memory selective, and we must not have the memory of re-insurgent and foolish. And the opposition must not be persecuted and seized by this peculiar rabies of post Truth, the diffusion of false and toxic events, angers. Objections and contributions. We are constantly open to this, and we will be all the government there to accept criticism and contributions, but not those cries. Easy. We have great problems toward us. The country has been on a crossroads since 2010 at a turning point, in a break. Society itself is tested. Her demography changes, and if some are deprivation of power, if some power junkies are deprivation of power, let's wait. Democracy contains everything and the change in governance. The elections will be held on time. Then you'll show what you can do. Now help your voters, the Greeks and the country face these great problems. In the rest, criticism is acceptable. So let's talk with national and social responsibility and choose: In migration and refugee - especially the immigration we've known since 1990, and we've had experience in Greece - are you with Golden Dawn or Amnesty International? Are you with the far-right screams of hatred, the ones coming out of Visegrad against our country or the "Human Rights Watch"?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u88	Don't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u89	Please don't talk. Here we inform the House and have a political debate on Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u90	Diagnostic policy on this matter, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u91	Let's go, you guys do this. Please. I can tell you, then, that in the diplomatic, external sphere, we have a series of actions of the Greek Government as well as very fertile and active policy. We supported and co-operated in the establishment of the agreement or declaration, as it is said, the European Union - Turkey, which was concluded on 18 March, a difficult, fragile agreement, but which has worked. If you do not monitor the international press and what comes out in Greek, we have a Europe that is stolen. This comes out at all sessions during 2015 and 2016. There is a ambiguity and a centrifugal attitude in many Member States on a number of issues. We started with the major financial crisis in 2010. We had the refugee, which has cultural dimensions between Member States and micro-political divisions, and we have Brexit, which is another breakdown. In the refugee region we have Member States - members of partners who are willing to comply at least realistically with common decisions. We have Member States which are indifferent, but are not hostile, and we also have partners who are hostile to common European decisions. So we also have a political dimension in the refugee issue, which is not just management issues or micro-political confrontation in the national areas. Greece has demanded and succeeded in being the refugee problem in Europe. These are joint decisions on a number of European Councils. It has sought and achieved internationalisation within the framework of both the United Nations organisations and through bilateral contacts with third countries that are interested and consistent and intervening in the common European policies on the issue. We have succeeded in making a regulation on the new border guard and coastguard compatible with both European interests and national interests. It was with a lot of quiet and quiet battle. That's not how that works, no one gives you. We are close together with dynamic and clear views on the common European asylum system. We promote both bilaterally and within the European Union the common mechanism of European returns and put it on the agenda. We support something that some states, which are not involved in the refugee question, do not even know about, become a serious interconnection of all the information networks in Europe for better security and better border management, and we proceed with all bilateral cooperation often with very good results. Even with Germany, which is in the European Union, we have bilateral cooperation and often with very good results, and I mean practically. We are at the forefront of defending common European decisions and the spirit and substance of European treaties. I am talking about solidarity and equal sharing of burdens and benefits, which is not so simple. The strange or dangerous term of flexible, flexible solidarity, the flexible solidity, has already entered the European debate. It is an element that undermines the very foundation of the founding treaties and the Treaty of Lisbon, and there are discussions, battles, there is a struggle. As far as tourism is concerned, I would like to say that of course the eastern Aegean has been pushed and suffered. However, the government is trying. They'll tell you other ministers, other questions, if you ask for information. He tries in every way to give compensatory benefits to the affected areas. We have done everything we can to extend - and it is very difficult - a pilot visa programme to enable Turkish tourists to come. And thankfully, despite all the coup d'état and turmoil, we had a satisfactory move, a satisfactory flow of tourists from the opposite coast, who gave a little relief to the affected islands. As far as European Union finances are concerned, it is a great debate. The Minister has answered, Mr. Muzalas, to an older question here. There's evidence. We can testify. In short, I would like to tell you that the committee shows real facts, but inflated and not in the real time area to which they are given. Regular funds, the two large, AMIF and ISF, provide for European funds - not national contributions - about 500 million from 2014 to 2020. It will not even end in 2020. It'll be over in 2022. I mean, eight years in depth. Of this money in 1/5 was intended for the entire seven years to be directed towards reception and reception costs. Everything else has been done for other infrastructures, other costs, other things. From the extraordinary funding of some 450 million which the Commissioner for Civil Protection has successively announced, a multi-storey, nor is 1/4 channelled to the Greek state, Greek democracy. They shall be channelled to international organisations, UN agencies, to MGO. That's their policy. He was at their discretion. All we have left to do is to have a decisive political reason when these funds are made available. This information is available to you and by the Ministry of National Economy, which is not asked in today's topical question. But ask to give them to you in detail, so that you can have a full picture. I am very grateful to the House and to the honourable Members who have listened to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too, Minister. We proceed with the parliamentary representative of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR, Mr Theocharopoulos, for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, we are here today to discuss issues relating to the management of the refugee and immigration crisis once again. A crisis that found the European Union unprepared for the phenomenon of this scale and our country weakened by the economic crisis. A crisis that, both at European and at national level, continues to trigger populism, phobias, and to be exploited by extreme circles. Of course, we must insist that many countries in Europe have an anti-European attitude to this issue, to find a common place in the debate here. An anti-European attitude, which means that when we want European integration and social cohesion at European Union level, we must also pursue joint management and not shared responsibility and not, of course, tackle all of this, a country that cannot. Unfortunately, the situation is not improving, either at international level or at national level or at European level. At international level, the operative cause of the crisis continues not just to exist, but to be further burdened by the creation of a tsunami of refugees. At the European level, as we have said, the structure and cohesion of the European Union continue to be tested. Despite formal and informal meetings on the subject, various proposals stipulate initiatives on national agendas. It was also at the recent summit in Bratislava. The countries of Eastern Europe are stubbornly resisting the plans for compulsory distribution of refugees in the European Union, unequivocally refusing to accept binding quotas for the reception of Syrian refugees. On the contrary, they propose alternative ways of contributing - and here it is dangerous - to dealing with the refugee crisis, such as flexible solidarity, according to which they will not accept refugees in return for contributing more spiritually, or more money for caring for refugees. You remember, Mr Muzala, when Mr Tsipras said at the summit on 18 March in a question at a press conference that any countries who do not want to participate in the distribution of refugees should at least contribute financially, that I opposed you in this particular matter, and I told you that these words should not be heard again by greek governmentally, let alone the Prime Minister who said so at that time. From that point on, this has not been said before, but it is a misguided strategy. The interconnection of debt and refugee was another mistaken strategy which attempted for a short period of time and was abandoned in the experimentation that was taking place. Unfortunately some experimentation continued after the first seven months. We have said that and we do not have to say more now. Even the President of the Commission, Mr Juncker, who has so far supported the compulsory distribution of refugees, seems to be partially revised, as he pointed out to the European Parliament a few days ago. He is sure that he is convinced of the need for more solidarity, but he also knows that solidarity must be voluntary. As far as the agreement between the European Union and Turkey is concerned, first of all - first of all - we held a responsible attitude as a Democratic Integration in this matter and here in the Greek Parliament, when the agreement between the European Union and Turkey came, but also with the European partners and social democrats, because you said so and mentioned what we were doing and European social democracy. You know very well that when we go abroad, what we are telling everyone is how there should be a fair distribution of refugees, a change of logic, a compulsory relocation of all these issues. Of course, we also exercised a responsible policy in national co-operation when it was necessary for the Council of Political Heads, but also when the European Union-Turkey agreement came into force. We have, however, said clearly that this is about a lot of things and, of course, there is a great difficulty in implementing it. You did not deny it yourself, but it is a matter of what you are doing to solve the specific problems that are created, because this is not a bilateral problem between Greece and Turkey. Of course we have the problems of relocation from the start. You will remember, Mr Xydakis, in a committee that I was quite critical of the procedure when the Prime Minister had come with Mr Yunker, if I am not mistaken, for thirty people who left Luxembourg. I described it as a fiasco in order to show that so many people cannot drown and the European Union can make a feast for thirty people who will be relocated, while we are not solving the problem - either our country or the European Union - in the essence of relocation at the level of the negotiation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u94	Are these factors and from Europe what they have done? Accreditations without...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u95	That is precisely why I think it is a common place for the findings that have been made. There are some islands, but also Macedonia, where, as you mentioned, 60% of refugees go there. But that's your responsibility too, I mean your government, because there has to be a fair distribution in our country too. To tell us what is happening with empty camps, if they are in a satisfactory state and have not been given at the moment. Say it, make it clear, because Mr. Kammenos had said some things at the time, that he wouldn't give, I don't know what happened in the next period. At national level, the current government is being caught up in contradictory statements by government officials, it is failing to complete all administrative procedures, as well as inability to absorb Community funds, as we have shown in a previous question. Of course, the situation should not go back to 'and five' to decide to take action both on the existing and on the possible worse situation. What should be done, for example, to make a possible rational distribution of refugees, by dismantling the country's disproportionately heavy geographical areas - we have said a typical example just now - or, for example, on the issue of national policy? When you had taken over, Mr Muzala, I had proposed to you at a meeting of us - and you know how much we tried to help in this regard - to become a national immigration policy council. You said there was going to be a cross-party committee. It didn't happen either. I say that if there had been any such evidence, it could have been a better debate and not have had this divided climate between SYRIZA and the New Democracy that has emerged from positions of people today and the Government and of the New Democracy. So what is needed is understanding. However, the government always has the first reason for its understanding so that it can be provoked and conscientious in these matters. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So the government must accept that such a scale is not solved by ideological and sterile egoism. The sooner he realizes it, the better it will be for the country, the national economy and democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u96	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u97	I shall conclude, Mr President. You also referred to the Greek. You know my blood pressure for the Greek. You know when we met in May, you made a commitment to June. Afterwards, you said, in July, that you were doing everything possible to make progress with the Greek process. Even today you said 'we didn't do it'. An effort must be made to make a fair distribution of refugees. That is why I am saying, because they are all three ministers today, who are the empty spaces, where they are located and how they can be fairly distributed on all these issues. And of course, on all these issues, there is a plan. Because you said that there is a plan, but the plan should be between government, self-government, non-governmental organisations, coordination. Coordination on all of this does not exist. We will, therefore, continue to do what we are doing: a responsible opposition, a programme not sterile, and of course, at European level to try to help these issues. However, first you too, in order to keep what you say about the dates and timetables you set. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u98	Under the Rules of Procedure, as you know, the Parliamentary Representatives speak for six minutes, while the party's parliamentary representative in question speaks for twelve minutes. Of course, we must comply with the Rules of Procedure, because time is unequally distributed for the party I am asking. The party that asks must have the most time. That's what happened yesterday and today. So I say it because we have to keep track of times. The parliamentary spokesman for SYRIZA, Ilias Kamatos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. I hope that you do not only apply to me the'stricken' Regulation. I'll try to be in my time. Very soon, I will give answers to four issues raised by the last speaker of the Officerial Response. He presented them as unspeakable arguments. For the number. In your state, it's only the incoming column. I think that the main ministers have the evidence, and if the departures, the resettlements, the returns, you will have a better picture and the argument you have made is not correct, that we are not returning illegal immigrants to their country. You know very well and that efforts have been made over the previous period and that some returns are made. You know very well that our own country cannot - we had gone to Pakistan and turned half of us back - and that this will be coordinated with the European Union and through the agreement. You referred to episodes with a full bottom. You also referred to someone who was perhaps not very serious. You know, there was no death. If I'm not mistaken, we had no death in this period. In the period of yours, we have deaths and beatings and courts, which are now avenged. I will say one last thing about what you said about the supply for both the Dodecanese and the Dodecanese people. You don't know well, you're not well informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u100	I didn't say that. I testified...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u101	I'll answer you. What you've testified is protests about the contest. Yes, there were protests, because he went to get the feeding of some non-native, who brought frozen food, was unacceptable, and they ripped the world up there, the immigrants and the refugees. Everyone so far that they're taking the competitions are local and none of them are a heterogeneous. There's a regular competition. But, in order not to 'eat' the time, look, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, it is understandable that the timely question you tabled is part of a more general framework of opposition policy that you have, where the only objective is every month for the government to fall and as much as you disprove, you insist. But you do well, in addition to this framework that you are implementing, - that is to say, just defend these interests which are affected by our own policy of canals or education, for which we have had a debate the other day - on issues such as refugee and immigration, what are you doing? You describe the problems, the issues we have. They all said and we admit it's a very big deal. And while you have created them and you have responsibilities to a large extent, and you have responsibilities that you hide them, you do not have a proposal. You don't even have a proposal for the islands. Let's just get them. You don't say how and why or not. You're not telling us about schools. You raise tons and motivate parents and various reactions. Do you want the chauffeurs to go to school or don't you want? We didn't hear your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u102	Where did you hear that? New Democracy issued an announcement. Don't say things that don't apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u103	You'll answer. You have a second, I don't have one. Please! You ignore the objective circumstances, that is, the developments we have had with increased flows and all the other difficulties. And at the end of the day, you do all that without care if you are harming the country and especially the islands. You know, you did good to the islands when you raise these issues in the tourist season and you're cut off for the islands' tourism? I will give you examples below. Finally, with all your tactics, you show at the end your responsibilities, as through the lack of your own proposal. It was a typical thing that my colleague from the Dodecanese said that society was a whole thing with us before and now it is turning. In other words, you admit it was society with us, but you opposed it. Do not make hot spots, in favour of mobilisations, your people participated organized in mobilisations in good cooperation and association with extreme right-wing elements. You say that the agreement between the European Union and Turkey is in danger of collapse. But, many of you didn't react to this? Who made the deal and who fought it? And you are now accusing us of not returning to Turkey, not leaving to Europe. What did you do? You closed your eyes and took them from the squares - the Minister said so - and you turned them from here and there and they came back while we had very low flows. And all of this with what dogma did you do it? We don't have good living and reception conditions so people won't see each other and they're coming. Do you know who says that? You will also hear them from speakers from a well-known extreme right-wing party. You blame us for opening our arms and calling them, increased flows, etc. Aren't you tired of saying it? This false argument has now collapsed both from the events and from the Frontex, NATO, Europeans, etc. And you see that even though NATO has come, even though Frontex has come, we all say and admit that it is the key to Turkey. In other words, despite NATO, despite Frontex, Turkey can... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I ask for your tolerance for a while. Are you also accusing us of doing nothing but applying international treaties and rules for refugees and immigrants? Because that's what we did. The same legislation that the European countries have in this way we have. We are doing nothing but applying the international treaties. Is that why you blame us? And we also took credit for it in the way we managed, without opening a nose, and evacuating the areas, Edomeni etc., the Minister said so. And what did you suggest then? You suggested we hit them. That is what you have done, because you have not made any other suggestions. That's what you implied. And you've seen the results, and in the Calais what's going on. We have succeeded in evacuating these areas in another way. You say, finally, we don't have a plan. But what did we find? Did we find structures, did we find an asylum service? It's all broken up. We created the services, we legislated to enable the OTAs to intervene, for ships, to staff the services. We moved the funding procedures, managed the NGOs. And the most serious of all? We internationalised this issue, we put it in Europe and we did it in the European Union - and we in the European Union - even though, until then, for your days, when they talked about refugee in the European Union, they only talked about Italy, Greece was outside, because we wanted to hide it. Allow me, Mr President, to speak about the islands and to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u104	But please finish, Mr. Kamaterre. You've been talking for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u105	But I have to say about the islands. I wouldn't say anything, but there's been a lot of noise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u106	Yes, but it's not possible, because Mr. Cassidy's going to ask after the same thing and so forth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u107	Look, the Minister said that people are in trouble too. Yes, the problem is real and in a legal way and will in order be dismantled. But let me answer an argument about hot spots. First of all, you understand, of course, that you guys are broken up. Another is against hot spots and another is in favor. And we know very well that you participated - I said it before - in the mobilisations against hot spots, but Mr Mitsotakis came at some stage and said "we agree". Now you're coming back and arguing. In fact, from this step one was against, Mr Consolas and the other agreed, Mr Mitaris.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u108	Please finish, because we're leaving the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u109	I shall conclude with a proposal, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living the greatest refugee stream after World War II. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, with one phrase. Give me a minute more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u110	Finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u111	We live the biggest refugee current after World War II. History has been written by population movements and has recorded who was pushing the wheel of history ahead and who were pulling it back. The extreme right-wing viewpoints, xenophobia, have always led to tragic situations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u112	Please, get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u113	Fascism has relied on and relied on the fear of the foreigner, who is to blame - supposedly - for our problems. And what are you doing? In the name of the sterile opposition and in order to catch votes from the extreme right, you are smearing with her, participating and undermining reactions, such as in Lesvos, in Chios with Mr. Metarakis. You're agitated and divided. And look, the worst is that you poison the souls of people and children.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u114	Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u115	How about those who urge children to react to the different? Have you calculated what you're going to do? Change the DNA of our hospitable people? And you're asking for a national policy? What policy? The far right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u116	It's not nice to interrupt the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u117	I'm not saying the rest. I'm saying the last word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u118	Yeah, but you don't make it easier for the conversation...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u119	Here's national policy, ladies and gentlemen. Here's the national target! Faced with fascism, in addition to the other differences we have and let us be bumped into economics! That can change. Poisoned souls, ideas can't change.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, I too would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u122	Mr Kamaterre - and I am not addressing you, I address everyone - you see that you are talking and creating problems. Others are asking for the floor on personal grounds and we are triggering the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u123	Call for cooperation, call for anti-fascist unity!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u124	Here, Mr. Consolas is asking for the floor on staff. What's the staff, Mr. Consola? To what is the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u125	Mr President, thank you very much for making me an excellent honour. He mentioned three times to me - if that's not personal, what is it? - and I was also surprised by my colleague Mr Cameroon, Mr President. But he did a historic blow. He matched me with the extreme right and with the evidence that I hinted on Kos, to express my opposition to the hot spot. Firstly, Mr President, it is rather extreme right-wing eight thousand of his compatriots in Kos who protested against the establishment of the hot spot in Kos and its operation. If they are far-right, then I invite him and I ask him to disprove, or to return to class. Secondly, I would expect Mr Kamaeros to support the proposal by the institutions, namely the TEI, the Hotel Association, the Bar Association, the professionals of the island, the Municipality of Kos, who is desperate and alone for years now, on the seven points I have tabled in the Minutes. Mr President, in the Minutes today, my indicative speech on immigration in Kos, because everyone knows in the country and in the Dodecanese what my position and attitude was: solidarity with the refugees and my opposition to the government's task of creating problems with its policy on tourism, society and the development programme of the Dodecanese, which our compatriots have built with blood and a lot of trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, people have risen...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u128	Look, the story of 'personnel' cannot continue. [[Noise in the Chamber]] There's a reason. He said his opinion, you said yours. There will be no dialogue, Mr Kamaterre.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u129	Just a minute on staff, Mr President. You know me in this House. I have never asked for the floor on personal grounds. It's the first time. There's new evidence!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u130	Look, I will tell you something and I will tell you it clearly in Parliament as well: The Apostle Kaklamanis when he was President of the Parliament has decided and reached the extremes, that is, he has forbidden the meetings of at least the committees from the TV of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u131	Good. Are you going to do this to me now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u132	And you know why he did this? Because there was no discussion on the subject, but there was a discussion on television. If everyone starts, one after another, wanting to speak on personal grounds, then the parliamentary representative of another party will rise and tell you: "I want to speak."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u133	Don't tell me. I didn't start it. I spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u134	You've responded to a personal response. You spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u135	Give me the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u136	Please! You see that another Member is asking for staff. I will give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the next party, the People's Association - Golden Dawn, to Mr Cassidiaris. Ladies and gentlemen, please, we will not continue with the personal things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u137	It'll be recorded as the only case you've ever banned on staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u138	I'm not forbidden.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u139	We see here inserting SYRIZA and New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u140	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u141	Sit down, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u142	You won't tell me what I'm going to do! You're the last one to tell me what to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u143	They cannot claim SYRIZA and New Democracy who are the residents who have risen up against the treacherous government's policy, if they are extreme right, if they are the Golden Dawn and are part of the party. They are Greek citizens, who are no longer able to deal with this situation. They cannot see the Greek islands sinking by illegal immigrants, burning Greek islands literally. Fires were put in Lesvos, which your Prime Minister is confusing with Mytilini. It says, "Others Lesbos, other Mytilini." And we want with these people to find a solution to the major national problems. The residents, who react to the islands, throughout the country, who have rebelled, are Greek citizens. At the moment, there is a national revolution all over Greece. And the House may for months be talking about ridiculous issues, whether Kalogritsa or Alafouzos - the Syrians are fighting with the Neo-Democrats - but at the same time, in Oraiokastro, Alexandria, Philippida, Lesvos, Chios, Rethymnon citizens have risen up. We have demonstrations by many thousands of Greeks that hide them from the channels of corruption and interlocutory and are now claiming self-evident. And they don't claim any money or any material. They're claiming that their kids don't get any tuberculosis. This is the crime that Greek citizens have committed, and for which you have then called on the prosecutor against racism, that they claim not to catch up with their children. So the Golden Dawn, we call it, we make it clear, is on the side of these people. The people in Chios, Lesvos, who demanded that the Greek flag rise. And if the MATs were not there, they would have thrown the so-called solidarity and non-governmental organisations of SYRIZA into the sea. And congratulations to the citizens of Rethymnon, who gave fierce wood to the raid bats of SYRIZA and the extreme left, which with helmets and bats terrorize Greek citizens to enforce multicultural society. The government, of course, after all these events, went on to prosecute citizens. We saw you invoking the prosecutor against racism, persecution with anti-racist law, even with hierarchy. So no one is afraid of these persecutions. We have reached the point today, while you used to tell us racists, because we claimed not to be the Greek minority within Greece, to be considered a racist and to be persecuted by anyone who claims not to stick his child with tuberculosis and malaria. And it's not just these diseases. I am tabling some official information from the World Health Organisation, which explains what diseases all of these people are carrying in Greece, who are smuggling in here illegally without any control of them. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Kasidiaris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But it's not just diseases. Syria was proud of him before, "we haven't yet had a dead man," he says. All Lesvos burned for two nights and said "we had no dead". Some Pakistani people were raped by a child in Moria. Then they appeared as minors, of course. They make the crime and go to the prosecutor and report minors. They are 30-year-old donkeys, they have murdered Greek citizens and appear as minors and go to juvenile prisons and then escape. But even if they're minors. These juveniles will send you to school with our children? You rape them? The criminals? Not all schools, of course. They don't go to all the schools. Because the farmer in Oriokastro is afraid of his child. Your Prime Minister, however, who sends his child to Hill School, is not afraid that the little Ernesto will not get hepatitis. Because you, since you took over the rule of the country, all you have done is send your children to expensive private schools in Kolonaki. That's what you did. And at Hill Schools, of course, there's no danger from Pakistanis to catch up with the children of tuberculosis. So, in this case, you are the biggest racists. And to clarify it, the Syrians are not humanists, who are voting for these unacceptable bills along with the New Democracy. Mitsotakis himself, when he went to Lesvos, said "I certainly am in favour of hot spot and must become hot spots". The New Democracy passed the Muzala Act on asylum to ask those who enter here for asylum and illegal immigrants to be baptized directly and to stay in Greece. Well, we're all together. But you are not humanists because you have made too much money, the Syrians. Too many millions have saved your comrades from this whole story! I'm talking about the 750 grand, who Syrian MP complained that a SYRIZA strain was given only to feeding illegal immigrants to a single hot spot. Not to go to Buddour's complaints - yours! - who says that the international organisations cost the hot spot 2.5 million and you finally cost it 8.6 million euros to get EUR 6.1 million into the Syrian pocket! So, for the money, everything is done about the 'consortium', so that your people can finance it, so that your people can be appointed through the NGOs and make fun of the world. There's money! So there is money for the Syrians! There's money for illegal immigrants! He agreed that a minister would answer us after a hundred and fifty attempts, which would not answer us, because - he says - we are racist ones who want a Greek. Those who send their kids to Kolonaki to private schools, who have no Pakistani, are anti-racists! But we were told how much the cost is, how much money was wasted only in 2015 for illegal immigration. Hang on, Greek citizens, who are listening to this meeting. For 2015 alone 1.8 billion was wasted on illegal immigration! We could have saved ENVY and not have had a hole in public funds. I should like to mention one example which has been denounced to me by citizens to understand that the only racism, which exists in this country, is racism against the Greeks: some residents of Peru - who are poor, because as you know, the Shipbuilding Zone is closed, no Greeks work in Perama no longer work in Perama, no Greeks with the politics you practice - in the hot spot of Schistos because they were hungry and saw that there the illegal immigrants throw them away. It was clean Monday and they had been handed over with octopus and octopus tossed - we have photographs on the Golden Dawn site - and they ordered souvlakis, delivery. And the Greeks went there and asked the person responsible for the hot spot and answered them "I don't have the authority to give you dinner". When the Golden Dawn gave Greek citizens food, then they were piles of hate! Now that you don't give Greek citizens what is that? Isn't it political hatred and racism against the Greek? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I am claiming the time that Syrias had previously. I'll go to another complaint. You've reached the dreadful point of turning even selected units, the 1st Brigades - Paratroopers into poachers. I am presenting the call for expressions of interest and for tenders to be submitted in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Kasidiaris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The camp in Redina, as you know, is the Unorthodox War Training Center. They, the Greek cruisers and paratroopers, make them by the Tsipras - Kammenos government today. And this is an act of criminality! Of course, what's Kammenos doing there, this super-fighting comanto, who appears in public and puts birds of parachute, underwater destroyer, auto-shower school, flying pilot birds Apache? There's no public prosecutor to tell him: What are you doing, asshole? That's illegal! Six months of imprisonment is provided for by the Criminal Code!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u144	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u145	I shall conclude, Mr President. I have just a half a minute to say something about New Democracy, which is doing today - it says - a topical question. Why is New Democracy asking a timely question? Mitsotakis himself went to Lesvos and said we were in favour of hot spot. You vote in favour of hot spots. You vote for all SYRIZA's unwilling bills. Even the Islamic mosque, the construction of Islamic mosques, the Islamization of Greece was voted for by New Democracy. So stop, we remember from 1992. It was Samaras who put all the Albanian in Greece, all the criminals. Let us remember Prokopi Pavlopoulos, who thanked the Pakistani people for saying - they honor us with their presence. The only solution is Golden Dawn. There is no other solution. And because you say that we have no proposals, I tell you that we have tabled a specific proposal for a law which solves the problem in just one day, imposing life sentences on all traffickers of illegal immigrants and a peculiar offence to illegal entry into Greece. Penalties will not be carried out in prisons, but in special detention areas where public work will be carried out at the same time. That's what Golden Dawn will do when it comes to things and Greece will clean up. Although I don't think we're even gonna have to implement such a law. They'll be out of their own swimming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u146	The Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u148	After Mr. Katsotis, I'll give him to you on staff. You will explain the staff, because we have already created a tension, because Mr Consolas has asked for the floor - because he has referred to it - and then again he wanted the parliamentary representative to speak, which is not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u149	He referred to me, too. You could finish the cycle and then answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u150	After Mr. Katsotis I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. As a JRC, we have highlighted the causes of refugee and immigration, imperialist wars and interventions to implement the plans and control the roads of oil, gas and other wealthy sources. The consequences of imperialist competitions are disastrous: death, refugees, immigrants, poverty, impoverishment. The refugee migration is managed by the same forces that have provoked it, capital, at the basis of benefit. Governments are moving to the limits of the choices of monopolistic and business groups. In this context, refugee law, as provided for in the Geneva Convention, characterised by the unregulated transit of refugees for their country of destination, with measures for their security and their decent living and staying in the past, has been abolished. All management policies on the subject of these people are made with reasonable market freedom, business and not just. Refugee is deserved on the issues of terrorism and security for even greater military presence, war action and repression against the peoples. From the New Democracy's question of an alternative plan in the face of the existing risk of the collapse of the European Union-Turkey agreement, there is an attempt to become a problem for our people if Turkey continues to comply with the accession agreement with the European Union or if it is flooding again with refugees and immigrants in Greece and the European Union. The Turkish Government's threats are being exploited that it will break the deal if the European Union fails its own commitments. We want to stress that the European Union-Turkey agreement itself adopted by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL is responsible for the caging of refugees in Greece and the double caging of those on the islands. It sacrifices the interests of the people and refugees on the altar of the interests of the monopolies, which are reconciling their transnational alliances with Turkey's bourgeois order with the same ease as reconciling the oil and gas pipelines. NATO's invitation to the Aegean Sea and Karpathos' concession to base is a facilitation of imperialist planning. It is the agreement, rewarding the aggression of the Turkish bourgeoisie in the Aegean and Cyprus. Erdogan's statements on the question of the Losan Treaty, as well as the European Union's Commissioner for Enlargement, Mr Han, on the issue of the globe, expose those presenting the Nautian umbrella as a factor of peace and security. It is confirmed that nothing positive brings to the people participation in the NATO Twilight alliances - the European Union and deeper involvement in their dangerous designs. In the context of increasing conflicts between parts of the capital, strengthening reactionary, nationalist parties and perceptions, they are even hardening their attitude towards the refugee and immigration rights of asylum. In this context, the creation of the European coastguard and border guard is speeding up. The Commission is threatening to reinstate the current Dublin III regulation, which has been frozen for Greece, so asylum seekers found in another Member State will be returned, although their first country of entry was Greece. This regulation has also been passed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. The revision of Dublin is taking place in this direction of responsibility of the first country of entry and only in exceptional cases a large number of asylum seekers will then be put in place the relocation mechanism in other Member States. The proposal to revise Dublin in some cases is worse than today's regulation. And the government continues to move in the same pattern: faith and commitment in the imperialist alliances of NATO and the European Union and their designs in the region. He complains about the fact that the European Union has sent a few officials and agents to help implement the agreement with Turkey and the package on the external borders. It wants the agreement with Turkey to be implemented and to continue to apply, by changing the composition of the Appeals Authority to ensure the final and rapid rejection of Syrian refugees' asylum claims. Sixty-sixteen thousand four hundred refugees who should be relocated from Greece to other Member States, finally left only three thousand seven hundred in the eleven months in force of the programme, while seven thousand more refugees have passed from the Greek authorities and services of the European Union, but the other Member States - do not open up positions to receive them. The selection criteria, although not made public, are such that they are cost-effective to capital and employers and do not bear the so-called 'provisional schemes'. Those considered to be ‘cost’, such as minors, single parents, other vulnerable groups, do not have any luck relocation. The Syrian refugees' relocation programme from Turkey to countries of the European Union is on the same fate, based on the EU-Turkey agreement and the one-to-one ratio. As soon as a thousand two hundred Syrians were relocated from the forty-two thousand provided for in the agreement. Isn't that right, Minister? I see you're moving your head.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u152	No, no, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u153	The government has serious responsibilities for the disastrous situation in most of the camps and the even more disastrous in the islands, the unacceptable conditions of health and health, the delays in the crucial issue of the education of refugees' children, the tradition of health and education in NGOs, the action of so-called 'convergences' and other suspicious elements. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like some more time, Mr President. The issue of the provision of decent and human hospitality for refugees is a responsibility for the state and no one else. You've put them all inside. All of you, outside the JRC, in the general direction, have close positions, gentlemen of the New Democracy, or even you identify. But the New Democracy is on two boats. He flirts with right-wing positions. The situation in the islands is indeed unstable. The number has increased significantly and are double enclaved. The number on the islands of the northern Aegean has reached thirteen thousand per cent ninety-five, corresponding to 22% of the total number. It is twice as much, even more than three times as in Chios, as in their capacity. The housing, hygiene and feeding conditions are medieval. Several people are staying in the country, many in uncertainties, since most are expected to be rejected and are waiting for their re-procession to Turkey. In such circumstances it is expected that conflicts and incidents, micro-parapathy and the fear of residents will increase. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In Lesvos, thirty unaccompanied minors are in protective custody, i.e. prisoners, while they should be in special structures and procedures for the immediate reunification of their families. Of the three and a half thousand unaccompanied minors, only eight hundred are in structures and they are in NGOs. That is why the conflicts in this hot spot start each time from the juvenile section, Mr Athanasios. The government refuses to transfer to mainland Greece the double enclaved by the islands, not even those who have obtained an initial approval of the asylum request, on the grounds that no suitable space has been established. This situation is being exploited by fascists, right-wing and other reactionary elements and with the support of business interests create a climate of conflict between locals and refugees, set up provocations and disseminate false news. The main request - and I shall finish, Mr President - ladies and gentlemen, is that this world should be disembodied from the islands and from all over Greece and that they should go safely to their countries of destination. Ensure decent conditions for as long as necessary for the first acceptance and registration. Also, the immediate reunification of families with priority for unaccompanied minors should take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u154	Please complete!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u155	I shall conclude, Mr President. This prospect requires conflict with sovereign alliances and not subjection. This cannot be done with the Turkey - the European Union, which is entangled. This is not the case with the regulations on business needs. Our people need, in addition to the solidarity they have shown, to fight against this rotten system of wars, refugee, immigration, poverty and impoverishment, against imperialist alliances and their plans, against racism and xenophobia. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Fascism is another choice of capitalism, its long arm.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u156	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u157	Anti-fascist fronts, right fronts, neoliberal fronts come to hide the barbarity of capitalism and the painful consequences for the majority of the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u158	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u159	They are coming to hide the fact that the capitalist way of production has nothing else to give, and we must move on to another form of organization of the economy with socialized means of production, centralized planning by the power of the working class, with the alliance of the other people's strata to meet the needs of the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u160	Thank you. The staff, Mr. Mitarakis, what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u161	In the report by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative in my name "as a participant in extreme right-wing events".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u162	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. I shall try, Mr President, to take the tone down and say that it is deeply splitting, it does not do good in the country or in the citizens, to use the logic that 'whoever is not with us, who disagrees with our own policy, is targeted as something far-reaching'. This is not an honour, first of all, to the thousands of citizens, some of whom were voters of the SYRIZA, who came down to the streets perfectly peacefully. I will conclude by saying that Chios's newspaper today publishes a dialogue with a left-hand journalist who visited Chios, who, as she looked at the world, tells herself loudly that it is sad to see so many inflatable extremes. And the local journalist asks her: 'Who do you mean?' He was looking and had families. And he suddenly says: 'They'. 'These are the policemen' - he says - 'they came for measures'. And that's the end of this conversation. We must not aim. The world has issues and its anguish is justified and I think the government will agree that the agony of the world is justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Vitsats has the floor, unless he wants to give you his place, Mr. Fotilla.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u165	I don't have a problem. Whatever the Minister wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u166	Minister, do you now want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u167	I don't have a problem either. Let Mr. Fotillas take the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u168	Good. The Parliamentary spokesman for the River Mr Iason Fotillas, and then the Minister, has the floor. Please, Mr. Fotella, take care of the time, as I say to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u169	With the tolerance you've shown to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u170	We always show tolerance, but tolerance, as you know, sometimes extends.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u171	But time has begun and I still haven't started. Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide from you that every time I come to this Chamber to talk about the flaming issue of refugee immigration, I feel a heart tight, because I know that when we leave this Chamber, the problem will remain unresolved no matter how many solutions we suggest to the government. It has been two months since we last gathered here to discuss again the management of the refugee - immigration issue. And what's happened since then? Did something improve? Contrary to what the Minister said earlier, the facts speak for themselves, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and unfortunately do not leave much room, even to the most well-meaning of us, to say: 'You have done well, you have even achieved it.' First of all, the East Aegean islands have collapsed financially. Incapacitated refugees are in despair, despair and despair in detention centres from miserable living conditions, poor feeding, abuse and at the same time delays in their asylum process condemn unjustly to lose their hope day after day. But even our islanders can't live in despair anymore. Their patience is exhausted. Their strengths have long been overcome. Don't blame them indiscreetly. They live the absurdity of a state mechanism that cannot take care of its home and fear that their place is slowly transformed into open prison of souls. The truth is, they just don't think you can do your job, ladies and gentlemen of the government. In other words, they don't trust you anymore. But the important thing is that you do not understand the tragedy. You are passing on from what the French are asking you to do as to how they will empty their own "Issent". I heard Mr. Cameroon. Really, when did Idome get cleared? When you had a place to take them. As long as you had nowhere to take them, you kept them there because you wanted them there, Minister. That's the truth. Why are you so proud of me? About the living conditions of so many people there? Not you, Mr. Cameroon. They told you at the mini-sponsored summit. From the islands of the eastern Aegean cannot be relocation. The excuses, however, have gotten tired of us and now we are tired of our partners. You have no plan, no program, no mind. For FRONTEX from the two police officers, you only got twenty of them. Looks like our police are overstaffed. Of the hundred asylum experts, the European Support Office has called only eighteen people on the islands. That's where the government's "large"! Just yesterday the European Commission published information on the emergency funding that our country has been receiving since the beginning of 2015 to deal with the refugee and humanitarian crisis. He received 353 million. Of these, 158 million went to the Greek authorities - asylum services, first reception, coastguard, army - and 175 million to international European organisations, NGOs. Fifty or fifty. Everyone's satisfied. Where'd that money go? The money was given. I have no doubt about that. But what happened? I ask you not for any other reason, but because the former Secretary-General himself, Mr Buddour, made complaints about mismanagement. Only your party army grew up. You managed to reduce unemployment from the hirings you made in the public sector. The various appointments to hospitals, as well as the secretariats, which you set up for this very purpose, of course, have also played a role. You have taken care to absorb all the relevant funds from the European Union, because for the other financial instruments you have no idea and you do not have a nail! NGOs aren't in control. You don't know what money they're taking or where they're spending it. I imagine not knowing anything about the disposal of this money must be the only reason you don't sleep at night. But you know that you caused it, with your analgesia and your idealism. Your ineffectiveness and your inadequacy to use money from the relevant funds - TEA, FIFG - in order to improve the living conditions of refugees have led local communities around hot spots to dead end and discomfort. Your scandals follow, from the hot spot in Chios to 1,2- to the contracts for feeding refugees to hospitality centres. A father and a daughter, with SYRIZA common denominator, had taken an entire hosting center in Serres. Well done, Mrs Stuboulis, who did not stand by and highlight the fact. That's all it was! All your chosen candidates have been posted in all the government's administrative positions. We have had you from the first moment, he has pointed out the criticality of the matter. It seems that you have understood it slowly and as a disgraceful person now you are going back to Europe at meetings, asking for understanding, compassion and mutual support and asking for them by the same people who were accuseing you until a moment ago. One advice to Mr Katamero, who is not here at the moment: stop inventing enemies. Those who do not agree with you and your policies are not far-reaching. They're not far-right residents at Oriokastro. They are afraid, because without any honesty you have informed any Greek citizen how their lives will change for the coming years from a situation that you have created. Ladies and gentlemen, the'second time' government - and I am closing, Mr President - has shown its indifference to the faces of refugees and migrants by violating every concept of human rights. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. She leads the country to the destruction, but her authority doesn't let her see her further. You see, her children have already settled them and she doesn't care about any deposit for the future. So the burden falls on us and, to use the well-known phrase of Camy, since it is fashionable now to use opinions in this Chamber, "the real generosity towards the future lies in giving it all to the present". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u172	Thank you. Mr. Vitsats has the floor now. Minister, can we say ten minutes like Mr. Xydakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u173	Yeah, I hope I'll finish. First of all, I would like to say something, because we are talking to the Greek Parliament, and I do not think it should remain that way. Before Mr Katsotis, we heard a racist cressado, which was closed with a very specific proposal. It's what Hitler carried out in Nazi Germany: forced labor camps. That's what he suggested. This resulted in millions in these camps dying. I'm saying this, so people know that not only man is the only living being who organizes wars, but that there are people who hate people. Two. Mr. Fotella, a direct assignment for feeding right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u174	Mrs. Stuboulis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u175	Bravo! So you do not know that before the complaint, the feeding was not entrusted to this company, but to another company in competition proceedings, which rejected it. You don't know that. Then, we're talking here, not with evidence...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u176	The Prefecture of SYRIZA...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u177	SYRIZA County did very well. She appreciated the behavior, the relationship of party behavior and made her decisions. But I'm telling you, the fact...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u178	He must have found something retarded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u179	That's the point. Because then I remember the representative of the Democratic Association who was talking about direct assignments and told him that this is what is needed in emergencies, but it will not be used. There is no case in which the Ministry of National Defence was used, but I think it also applies to the other ministries. But I'm going more specifically. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy - now you are only gentlemen here - I would like a little bit to charge you, without saying this with tension, some parliamentary plundering. What do I mean by that? A lurking that, if you like, makes it hard for the very processed and serious discussion. You tabled the timely question on 1 August. He's got a cause of concern. Just a few days ago, the attempted coup had been made in Turkey, and of course you were concerned, as we were all concerned about and we were taking steps on what is going to happen in connection with the agreement. On August 5th, the House closes. It's been two months, things have changed. You did not update it to sit here and talk at this stage what to do and what to do. First issue. We say that the deal must be kept. Right now we're in the state we were before the attempted coup, about there. He has the same or even less dangers, but he has to be kept. Do you know why? I'll give you some information you probably know. On 19 March - and when I say 19 March, you go on 18 March, because the figures come on 8 in the morning - a thousand four hundred ninety-eight immigrants. On 20 March eight hundred sixty-five, 21 March - in effect on 20 March - a thousand six hundred six hundred and sixty-two. On September 30, fifty - six, 29, one, fifty - one, on September 28, seventy - nine, on September 27, thirty - eight. Only the numbers show that a serious part of the agreement works and we have to keep it. That's what matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u180	But why?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u181	On how we're gonna keep her, as you ask, Mr. Athanasios, and I hope I don't raise a personal issue...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u182	Not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u183	...I say this, we can exchange ideas, thoughts, arguments. However, it is not the sea borders and how it is prevented. Italy, Greece and Malta cannot be blamed for not keeping their sea borders. It's not an argument. Excuse me, but what I heard was ignorance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u184	Tell us...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u185	I'll tell you about that. NATO's operation is being carried out as a monitoring operation - it does nothing else - on the Greek-Turkey border, permanently, at this time. In fact, for the northern Aegean - so that no one is thrown away and said 'what'? - We work on this framework every day. So one issue is what the alternative plan is. That's what your question is about. Right now, what we have and we have to focus on it is this agreement. We must work on this, and we must not start - let me say - the wise men who put her in danger. What do we do about this? We say the islands must be decompressed. What is the basic feature on this? The first-come work, the examination of asylum, that is to say immediately afterwards, must be made as quickly as possible, but on the basis of international law. You've been in the government for the past few years. You know, even from the previous one, that there are tens of thousands of applications that do not work before 2013. We have stopped examining these applications and are examining applications at second level in the Committee on Refugees. At the same time, we need to take a number of measures to help it, because you know that under the agreement, Greek and Turkish officers had been exchanged to confirm the returns. This, based on the attempted coup, has stopped. Now it's starting again. This whole process, that is, will be facilitated. The Minister will answer how the procedure goes ahead with the three-way procedure. However, these two want a balance, I would say a balance - and I dare say it in the House too - and returns and asylum benefits. That is, in my opinion, very important. So we, as a government, are pushing to exist - if you want - and an alternative plan. What can be that alternative plan? This plan is against closed borders, violent mass deportations, in Europe's logic - fortress. This plan is based on the equal distribution of the burdens of the refugee crisis between Member States, with compulsory proportional quotas. The European People's Party does not want it. It would be a contribution and it would be to press in that direction. If we end up with this, that's gonna be a big help. Secondly, what is the cost of the state budget within this procedure? Because the ministers said a number of things and I want to take a few issues. I'd like to tell you I don't know where they are. I have heard, dear Mr Muzala, that the cost of refugee or immigrant in Greece is EUR 15,000 per year. I'm saying, how did this number get out? Then I realized at some point that it was mere arithmetic. We take what is written in a newspaper here, we take what is written in the other newspaper, in the end we reach a sum of EUR 900 million, we divide it by EUR 60,000 and that is EUR 15 000. That's how the number comes out. Suddenly, the official committee comes out and says that in Greece of 2016 353 million have been spent, so immediately it becomes half. I am looking at our own figures, which are really, and at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs totalled EUR 70 885 484 from the three General Staff. Of these, the cost of the Office's hosting structures is EUR 55 000 000 and from the European Union we have taken EUR 30 494 590 by 31 July and for the period from 1 August to 31 December has been approved and is starting to disburse EUR 46 694 200. In other words, the total amount we manage and coming from the European Union funds covers the amount currently and with the budget by the end of 2016 we have put in place. So that's the main thing, if you want, thing. There we can have debates and say - because we also have an experience that we take from other countries - that we can decide very well in words, but we must also take time. I say, for example, that I was in Portugal. They have another system where they involve municipalities and one and the other. I ask: dear friends, how many years have you been setting up this system? They tell me: Ten years. We set up such a system within six months. Is everything okay? Everything without mistakes? Of course not! The Minister for Migration Policy is not just low tones, but sometimes, in order to create consent to move forward together - I do not blame him, I simply call him - it is even lower than the low tone. He comes and says "Let's go and see what we'll all do together." [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] We are going very soon to see a second issue. Look at the program we've announced now. What's he saying? Today we have about fifty hosting centres and hot spots. Of these, one question has been asked, which I do not know who did - the seventeen are former active camps, former facilities such as the runways of the Greek Armed Forces. On the other hand, I think that the presence of the port, police and armed forces in this matter, along with the presence of people who have worked either voluntarily or through this process, is amazing in my view. Good for us! When I say "our good," I mean to all of us. Except for one wing. I am therefore saying that in this logic we are going to reduce the number, increase the installation in houses, strengthen returns and installation in other countries of Europe. Where's the politician? The policy is that there are countries that say 'We do not want anything. We're not getting anything." There are countries which should send five people to help asylum and have not sent anyone. There are countries that go, it says, to vote in this direction. This is where we need to put a wall. We must not create a Europe of small walls, but build a wall of humanity, a wall of solidarity. You know, we didn't do it in the past few years, because it didn't happen, it didn't happen both from PASOK and from New Democracy. It's the Olympic Games, of course. What do I mean by that? At a time of economic development, economic migrants, particularly from the countries of northern Europe, have been exploited on the one hand to bring wages down and to strike - if you like - the trade union movement in this sense, but also to make some big projects that we know. The last thing I would like to say is this: Look, you are making a mistake in a demonstrative way. I do not know how to characterize your MEP in the European Parliament - because it is also known from the students' years - from the question he asked about Greek control, etc., where he claims that refugees and immigrants in Greece are more. You don't understand well. The former secretary of the Ministry of Migration Policy claims to be fewer. Now, making a joke about'more' or 'less', we put them, we divide them by two and that number comes out. It's not like that. There's a full record. Nobody's lost. There are moving procedures. There are accommodation procedures in other structures. What we are giving are the structures that we and the UN High Commissioner can fully control. We are missing ten thousand jobs right now from the High Commissioner's programme. What are we gonna do now? Are we going to blame? Oh, no. We're going to work together and create such a process. I say this because refugee and immigration are an issue that is not going to be solved tomorrow morning. It's a matter of the modern world. I would like to say this to you: we are now seeing it in Europe. If we went to discuss academics years ago, there would be the logic "I am solidarity, I am sensitive if it isn't in my neighborhood". That's what this is all about. They signed fifty-three, and this is ten. I'm not criticising this, but that's the way it is. But, in solidarity, sensitive man with a full attempt to solve problems you are when you are present.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u186	That's right. The Austrians, however, did not invite Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u187	Please, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u188	Yeah. So you're saying it was right, and the previous one I said. What we can do there as the Government of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks and the Green Greens is our policy to have the elements of humanity, solidarity, to be in line with the Geneva Convention, in accordance with the European Union-Turkey Agreement, to solve the problem, to go further. That is why I urge you, too, to stand by your side, from your ideology, from your own ideology, if you wish, logical in the sense not of the representative, but of acting in this direction. Let me say one last thing. Some numbers have been mentioned, the "tada" event, the "tada" event, the "tada" event. It is not personal, but because you were the Minister for Civil Protection - and it is not about you anywhere, because I cannot remember the sequence - I will tell you that if anyone goes and sees the Symbol of Symbol in the San Panteleimon Police Department, he will find that what you said doesn't work even 20% of a month. Who took advantage of that then? The ones who talk that way. It is of no importance that part of the population takes part in these events in Chios or Mytilini. Of course, people who have fear inside them are part of them. What's our job? It's not about calling people. Our job is to take the fear out of them with actions, policies and, if you like, omissions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u189	In order to avoid taking advantage of it, the government must do its job, Minister. Because the way you handled it, it was only for them, for exploitation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u190	The parliamentary representative of the Centro-Centro-Centro-Carras Association has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras presents for the Minutes the timely question mentioned above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I would also like to thank the fellow parliamentary representatives who gave me their position, for the reason that I participate in the Committee on European Affairs and I have to go. We are therefore talking for about three hours, once again, about immigration and refugee issues. It is timely to ask the New Democracy after Mrs Merkel's statement yesterday that the asylum procedure is being delayed, and that means that the possibility of relocation to Europe is being blocked. The figures given are that the previous 12 months, if I remember exactly the number, are four thousand four hundred fifty five those who gained the privilege of relocating from Greece to the northern European countries, as they requested. Accordingly, it is equally timely to ask the New Democracy and to say that Commissioner Avramopoulos, who is responsible for immigration, is making a recommendation to Greece yesterday and highlights the risk of reopening the Dublin Agreement. This means re-promotion to the first host country, which for European data is Greece. What did we do? I will speak with the experience I have in the last year of this House. I can't talk about the previous period. My knowledge of the previous period will only be theoretical. So the new law, which amended asylum issues, has become more luxurious, more embarrassing. Why am I saying that? I will submit to the Minutes, Mr President, a topical and urgent question dated 28 March 2016, which I pointed out to the Minister of Justice that, with the structure of asylum services, the office of vengeance of criminal asylum seekers will never be able to function. [[At this point Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras presents for the Minutes the timely question mentioned above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Unfortunately, the Minister replied to me that it cannot, it is difficult, it is premature to amend the procedure, to shorten the procedures. So that still applies to this day. Not only does that apply, but there is something worse, if I may. It is true that the Ministry of Justice itself and, obviously, the Ministry of Immigration and they introduce a new amendment which transposes judges from the administrative prefectures into committees on asylum. So we already have four degrees of crisis. Four degrees of judgment to resolve the asylum issue! Uh, no, it's never gonna be solved. I have listened carefully to the ministers, and I understand that the problem will not be dealt with. I repeat my proposal, and I say this. Tomorrow morning, new legislation will come, which will instruct the single-member administrative courts to take the role of judging asylum applications to a first and lasting extent. So those of these people who have the right to asylum will be transferred and relocated. So it will no longer be an obligation of the northern countries and they will not lift the finger to say 'you know, you have failed the asylum procedure' and they will become the good ones who say 'we want to take them - that's what the Germans mean - but you cannot give them to us'. I think that's the thing. In this way, the Commissioner for Immigration cannot even threaten - I respect that, because he is a European Commissioner and cannot engage in a Greek policy at the moment - by re-activating, restoring the operation of the Dublin Treaty. We haven't even given the outside witness. That's something we didn't make. So then I'll say something else. We must address the fifty-seven thousand people, migrants, refugees, who are before the Turkey agreement - the European Union which took place on 18 March. They were in a separate regime. I didn't hear anything about them today, but I heard about re-propulsions. However, this concerns the operation of services within the islands. It is clear, however, that this concerns those who come after 20 March 2016. The problem is therefore cumulated, added, and it will become explosive. We should not, therefore, deal only with the issues of procedures. Mr. Vitsa, Minister, these procedures are luxurious. There are no procedures to allow asylum applications to be immediately decided. Each one, whether he's an immigrant or a refugee, will throw away an asylum application. It is his right and we cannot legally forbid him. It will be his right to lodge an asylum application and wait. At this point, I will remind you of something beforehand. With the Spring Act we legalised in Greece the presence of twenty-seven thousand families with a five-year residence permit, because it was not possible to deal with asylum again in the past five years. Is that how we solve the problems? We can't solve them, because that's how people accumulate. Today I heard both about hot spots and hospitality structures and about detention and unaccompanied minors. Those are all human beings! Are we going to have them like this? I believe that the government's policy has not succeeded on this point and, unfortunately, it is difficult over time, because the government or does not want to address the problem by putting the finger on the type of sun or cannot. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm saying it can't be because time was provided. Good or bad, gentlemen of the government, Europe gave you the opportunity in 2015 and almost eight hundred thousand people were moved to the north. Have you not gained experience in this time, about how you will manage the next time and these souls? Finally, I would like to say that you have failed even in the way of financing. But I don't want to be acid. On 11 April 2016, I tabled a timely question and asked for an amendment to the legislation so that the European Communities' money concerning refugees would not go to a special account of the Bank of Greece in order to escape the Public Accountancy. Because that is something that European Union legislation does not accept. Well, nothing entered that account. The legislation has not been amended and we already hear that they are directed at NGOs, right and left, money that the Greek state could have managed and dealt with. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr Kammenos, the Parliamentary Representative of the ANELs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened with caution, ladies and gentlemen, almost all of my colleagues. I've heard the Minister too. I must repeat or supplement some of the elements that I know, in order to clearly illustrate the work that the Government of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks have done in this economic crisis, the sensitivity it has shown, the way it handled the crisis, without having the infrastructure, when we started. The first example I have to say is why did we not have the infrastructure? Because from 2000 to 2014, more than two and a half thousand structures had to be built to move migrants or refugees and, unfortunately, they had been made much less, around ninety-six to two hundred, so we also have to pay fines for this. I have this briefing. So we've received a few positions. We had blunt inputs. We all know what has happened. We were able to do so by negotiating with the honourable Prime Minister and the Minister of National Defence, as far as the construction and management work was concerned, until the structures were carried out and the administrative officials in hot spots and hospitality centres in all the structures and the Ministry of National Defence, which he first and foremost took and congratulated, but which he should not have taken. The public should have been ready before and built up the structures. Fortunately, the Ministry of National Defence entered and, fortunately, built forty-six structures and five hot spots and operated perfectly. I believe that the honourable Member, who was at the Ministry of Public Affairs, also knows from the inside that he is trying to bring this government to a good conclusion and to an account - so to speak - to the most popular - and to the security issues, as much as possible and permitted within hot spots and outside, because most of them are open. There were many issues and we need to inform colleagues and the Greek people that there is now a health monitoring network. There are weekly checks. Over 12 thousand vaccinations have been carried out in children in need of vaccination. Don't get us wrong, not plundering, none of us. I say it on the channels. I would ask the media to be very careful when playing with these issues, because it is a national issue and we must all be careful about what we say, particularly in public. Therefore, twelve thousand vaccinations have been carried out in children from about fourteen to fifteen thousand children. In other words, there are two or three thousand other children left to be vaccinated with this triple vaccine. Also, funds have been made at the Ministry of Health through CEDEFOP. It's 25 million for health surveillance. So both ministers together, in coordination with Mr. Musala, will do health surveillance. The money's here. So we're working in that direction. On the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, I do not think it is someone who at the moment could even think that she does not want it. Here is a political problem. It's the elections. At the same time, there is an economic, purely budgetary problem. I've got it in five studies. One of them, which you probably all know, is the International Monetary Fund and says that no country in Europe has budgeted the financial costs of managing migration and their readmission to countries and their compliance with the rules and their integration into schools and society. For Greece, under the International Monetary Fund, the cost in one year was 0.4% of GDP. I think the General Accounting Office of the State there has the numbers. In one and a half years it is between 800 million and 1.1 billion. And Germany, you know, is 11 billion unbundled. It is 11 billion unbundled for 2016-2017. It is something that we all have to demand together. Here I am going to go to a very specific issue and put it as a proposal to the dear colleagues of the Officerial Representation, especially in the New Democracy, in the European People's Party. Because what we are reading about these countries, apart from the Visegrad countries which are practically non-resolved, and 'I drop the ball in Greece away from me and it doesn't matter, we will manage it' is that Europe all has a problem. It is a systemic European problem. Of course, no European will accept it, because Europe is built to know all about it. I'm a little fun, a little sense of humor, but this joke comes to us. So I should like - and I propose to the New Democracy in the Forums in the European People's Party to press for politics - to show that it is not Greek. It is a European and Eurosystem problem. The European People's Party is, unfortunately, one of the tracks in Europe that bears the problem for political reasons. We here, however, will suffer it and I think it is nationally dangerous and we should be very careful and we should all work together so that we can resolve this issue. It's purely political. For readmission, right now, I think there's a plan very good from the Ministry, which works overnight. I think that the Minister, too, has made a series of trips and discussions with his counterparts or the Foreign Ministers of many Member States in the European Union. The issue of readmission, that is one by one, of turning from us to Turkey and Turkey sending them to Europe and being absorbed from there, is on the right track. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Right now we're counting about thirty, a hundred forty people a week. In November, we could reach the two hundred forty people a week. That is something we must all support. It's nothing to see in micro-political terms. I also know the local communities very well, especially in Chios - Mr. Metarakis is missing now - I was a 20-month ghost. I know the world very well, too. I know his peculiarities in Mytilini. Greece must be very careful. We'll fix the closed centers. I think we need to make the closed centers. There is a need for another agreement, for people to leave, for the islands to be dismantled into closed centres in the mainland and when their time comes - to say it simply - to get into the agreement with Turkey, go back to Chios, go back across and implement the agreement. It takes a lot of attention, and we're here to work with it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it was a good question. It is a timely question, and the debate is a good one. I am an enemy of creating a social automation, especially in the islands of the Eastern Aegean. I'm telling you, I spent the '87s with the Turks, the Sismique, the Special Forces. I mean, I've seen the project closely, what it means to the East Aegean and Turkey. I am not combining it with Mr Erdogan's words, which are for internal consumption only, and at the moment they have no substance. The Cyprus issue is a huge issue, which is the important issue for Greece, Turkey and Cyprus in our relationship with Turkey rather than what Erdogan says. Social automation in these parts is dangerous - except for import. We have an army, we have universities, we have a local society that has many cohesion problems and has had and will continue to have. They are with the media not only Greek but also foreigners, who go with the camera, do the report, each journalist tells the truth as he thinks, but international networks show the problem. I'm not sure the problem was solved, recognizing it and giving it so much publicity, but it got worse. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirty seconds, Mr. President. The image created insecurity. Yeah, lots of people showed sadness and compassion, but the tourist to come and leave money and invest wants a better psychology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u194	Please finish, Mr. Kammene.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u195	Thank you very much. And the best psychology is not won either in the local society for Greek GDP among us, if we had no problem, how much more for the foreigner who wants to come down to waste 100, 200, 300 euros a day on one of our islands who need it so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, too. Mr. Katasfados, you've been interrogating for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, I shall speak from the seat so that I do not abuse the time. Thank you very much. Minister, unfortunately I am disappointed at your position, because none of what I asked you to do did. You made a report about the past for a decade already. I really wanted to know you guys were a SYRIZA official, or were you a long time ago? Do you forget what your officials have done in any attempts by the New Democracy, when it was a government, to be able to create closed-ended centres, to make a distinction, what Europe is asking you to do, the whole of Europe, and not just the People's Party? Do you forget what SYRIZA officials did? Do you forget what they did, even in your day? Not to talk about what they did when the New Democracy was government. Do you forget that your predecessor didn't vote for part of the deal you brought? Do you forget that there were SYRIZA officials who, along with solidarity, went and sued the Port, Mytilini, when the Port arrested illegal immigrants? Well, don't fall out of the sky and you think we were the ones, who let things go the way they were, and you came to fix it. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] You returned and talked about the financial cost that the port of Patras had. Tell us, what was the financial cost? Didn't the boats leave then? Because the trains did not pass through Idomeni, and why there were companies that threatened to leave the country. Tell me a company she threatened then that she would stop her economic relations with the country. But these belong to the past. I was very sorry you made this report, of course, but I understood from the views of your fellow ministers and the parliamentary representative the line you have decided to follow. You tell everyone else: "Lords, we do everything we can and we get along very well. You, if you disagree on something, you're creating a problem. You create a problem and you identify with the far right voices." So there is no one, Minister, in this Chamber and out in society to have a different view. To be able to say, "Do you know what? There's a problem here. What you are doing here is not right." Because we are far-right people who say that. That is not the case, Minister. It's not like that. I would like you to give me an answer on when, at last, Mr Kammenos said so, the Representative of the Independent Greeks, that they will be - they will become closed-minded centres for illegal immigrants. Eight hundred and fifty thousand people have been moved and the main reason why our northern borders have been closed down, Minister - and you know it very well - was not the Syrians. They were all these illegal immigrants who entered the country and enjoyed the same rights as refugees. You want me to tell you what the most problems are caused by hot spots? What's the matter with the episodes? In conflicts among other nations. Isn't that right? Syrians fight the Kurds, Syrians fight the Pakistani, Syrians fight the Iraqi. Isn't that what it is? What are you doing? You continue to operate under the command of a piece of SYRIZA. That's what you're doing. You have been demanded that this separation does not exist. All Europe is asking you to have this division, and you continue not to do so. When we blamed you and told you that the electronic fingerprinting machines are still in the boxes, you told us that they weren't like that. The day before that the representative of the German Ministry of Home Affairs came out and told you that Germany has given hundreds of people to participate in the Asylum Committee, of whom we have only eighteen, and the reason is that there are no facilities for them to be placed, what do you have to say? I want an answer. Is he telling the truth or is he lying? I asked you one question: How many, finally, can this country withstand? A number, tell me. You didn't tell me. I asked you to commit to something else, if there is a possibility in 2017 that we will have re-promotions from Europe of migrants and refugees in Greece. You didn't answer. And you know what? I would like to submit to the Minutes, because we are looking at the deadlock in which the country and the 'double' attitude - let me say that - which the Prime Minister shows in the mountains of the Turkish President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u198	Okay, I think it's a little overreacting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u199	No, it's not too much, Mr. Cammene.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u200	Mr Colleague, I do not think he adds to the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, I said allow me the designation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u202	You could have avoided him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u203	It's too much for any Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u204	Look at that. We have heard much worse, and I said 'Let's allow the designation'. And I'm telling you it's very simple. Yesterday, Mr Erdogan even questioned the Lausanne Treaty, at the same time that the Prime Minister of the country was in favour of Turkish citizens taking the visa. Is that your plan? Your plan, then, in the face of this new situation is that we will support all of Turkey's positions to be the good children toward them. That's obviously the plan. Finally, you will allow me to submit a document in the Minutes, Minister. We really do not know - and I would like an answer to that - how much it has so far cost for immigration and its management over the last two years in the country. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Katsafandos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, apart from the answer I expect you to make the closed centres finally, I would like you to give me an answer on all these complaints made by Mr Buddour. Talk about your partner civil engineer. He talked about terrible overshoots going on about hot spots. He talked about hot spots that are ready and, unfortunately, have not been put into operation and your answer was "go below" or "no comment". You know, in the public dialogue, I personally, if I was accused of such heavy characterisations, there was no way that I wouldn't lift the glove, and my partner ex.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u205	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u206	In closing, you said another lie, if I may. You said you've all been registered. You said yourself that five thousand don't know where he is. Mr. Buddour said over ten thousand you don't know where he is. And I ask you: are the ones who are in Patrizia, at the Patisian Hospital that the solidaritys have understood, are they registered? Are all those who are in various occupied buildings registered? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, too. I'd say that Mr. Kikilias will be seconded and the Minister will be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u209	Especially you, Mr Kalafatis, have overcome the second language with the time you have used. Especially you have exceeded the time of dentistry, according to the times I have been marked here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u210	Mr President, there are colleagues like Mr Kefaliannis who have not spent all their time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u211	We don't borrow time. There's no time borrowing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u212	I tell you this to facilitate the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u213	Aren't Mr. Kikilis going to cover for you? Mr. Kikilis will cover you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u214	However, if you would like to facilitate the debate...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u215	I think Mr. Kikilis is sufficient. You have the floor, Mr. Kicilia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u216	Mr President, giving my colleague Mr Kalafatis two minutes, I do not think that is the terrible thing. Anyway, the rest of the questions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u217	We're here waiting from 8:30.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u218	All three ministers spoke three times a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u219	Mr. Kalafatis, I said you've exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u220	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I don't think there's any objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u221	There is no wish to remove the reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u222	Thank you very much for the goodwill, Mr President. I'll only need a minute. This is a very important point, you understand. We have been here since the morning we would like two, three minutes to give us the opportunity to speak. If one or two minutes of the year is being abused now, it is the usual one. Thank you very much for the good mood.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u223	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u224	I shall refer to three points. In an ideal world, in a dreamic world, in another political context, on such a delicate subject, with such a attitude on the part of Officers, one would expect that there will be a different approach from the government, Minister. And I'm saying an ideal world, because, unfortunately, I know how SYRIZA - ANEL Government works. I would expect the government to congratulate the New Democracy and its President, Mr Mitsotakis, because she has stood up to the circumstances and has put 'plate' in the first place. He went to all international and European forums and actually held a national attitude. I would expect the New Democracy to say a good thing or some kind of recognition by this government of this responsible attitude. Because it puts New Democracy in all the forums on this very crucial issue, because it does not smoke this very delicate issue, because it does not trigger reactions, because it does not engage in political activists. And we are talking about the refugee crisis that is equal in weight with the economic crisis. I would remind you that in another relevant crisis, the economic crisis, all the things that New Democracy has not done, SYRIZA has done to a very large extent as an opposition. Instead of what were you doing today as a government? You were three and there were obviously a plan. And it's common, because we meet all over the place. One Minister spoke of what the New Democracy Government did in the 1990s about another similar - it is assumed - and how he dealt with it. The second Minister, instead of coming here and speaking syntheticly, talked about 'Golden Ages' and tried with reason to speak on such a delicate subject, which I consider to be unacceptable and I am referring to Mr Xydakis. And the third minister - I don't know if it was his role, namely the good guy, the bad guy and the third - came to play a synthetic character. In any case, however, you have not answered any of the key questions raised by my fellow Members, and that is what actually states the government and through this procedure. Thank you very much for the time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, too. Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance, because you are right - you are right - we have exceeded time. I'll be an outline too. It is true, Minister, that hospitality structures are operating today unreservedly. Why, though, are they unreservedly working? Because it is not possible to separate refugees in time with immigrants so that this process can be speeded up. Now, I wanted to say to Mr Xydakis and Mr Vitsa - who are missing - that the civil war in Syria has begun since the end of '12. In '14 it was more intense than it was in '15 and more of these in Greece throughout the country had entered about seventy-eight thousand refugees and immigrants. Only from Lesvos in '15 - you know that very well, Minister - over five hundred thousand went to mainland Greece then in Europe. Why was that? Because there was border surveillance and the aspiring immigrants and potential refugees to come to Greece, knowing that there is border surveillance and that the borders are closed - and, of course, not you, your predecessor, established the open borders law - were not at risk of coming to Greece, because they knew that either they would either go back and lose money from traffickers or not go to Europe. There were three to three and a half million on the coast of Turkey at the moment, and there are three to three and a half million people who want to come to Europe. I don't think that number has changed. Does anyone, ladies and gentlemen, think that this superpower, Turkey, which basically has continental borders and not sea borders, cannot preserve its south-eastern borders and enter so freely and without controls immigrants? So there's something else. And I would like Mr Xydakis to be here - because we have raised this issue at another time with the Foreign Minister - and to see what our country has done in this direction to force Turkey to guard its borders. So this superpower in NATO has the largest and most powerful army after the United States, if it can't hold the border! What have we done with the European Treaty? We have made Turkey an institutional partner in the Aegean and finally developed into an unreliable partner, and now, as Mr Katsafandos quite rightly said, it is questioning the 1923 Lausanne Treaty indirectly, but also the 1923 Treaty. Minister, you have identified the current situation with the situation received by the New Democracy Government in '12 with the events that were taking place in the centre of Athens and did not overpower the city and you said that, you obviously took it from the report by Commissioner Muziak, who said what the Prime Minister said at the time, that is, Antonis Samaras. I read you exactly the words: 'We will recapture the cities'. This is a political expression, which means that we will bring back to the city the peace and security of the inhabitants. It does not mean that he will come as another Alaric with the Besigothians to understand Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u227	All right, all right, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u228	I shall conclude, Mr President. He said Mr Dritsas with the Secretary General of Maritime Policy, Mr. Gianneli, a ship will be installed in Mytilini to host or transport immigrants. Where will this ship be berthed? What happened with this, if you know how to tell us, and what the perspective of this ship is. As far as the NGOs are concerned, there was not much talk. How many are there? Apart from the Doctors of the World, the High Commissioner for the United Nations and the Doctors Without Borders - who really offer work and we must admit it here, and you know it, Mr Minister - are operating over seventy-eight NGOs, Mr President, in Mytilini. Nobody knows where they're being funded, where they're accounted for, who's supervising them. I would like an answer for that too. One last for Mr. Xydakis, who's missing. Mr Xydakis and some others must give up - this is not about you, Mr Mousal, you have never done it - the policy of disorientation and confiscation that anyone who takes a position to defend the interests of their country, saves and well must be far-right or be held by xenophobia and racism. These do not belong to us or to New Democracy, which in national and social matters has a responsibility and creative dialogue, as is appropriate for our political culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u229	Please, Mr. Athanasios, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u230	Last issue, Mr President. Listen to see, I did, until long ago, think that refugee is a European issue. It doesn't mean it isn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u231	"Last" has been used four times. Let me see what the last thing's gonna be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u232	I'm done, Mr. President. It's Mr. Metarakis' time. He gave me his time. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. It was indeed a European issue and it is still a matter. Nobody says no. But tell me: How do you explain to be a European issue, when Mr. Feinman, Chancellor of Austria, came to me, Mr. Schultz, a lot of surnamed artists, actors, etc. And they only made findings, but they didn't find a solution? Much more now - I am referring to Germany - are thinking of relaunching the country...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u233	Mr. Athanasios, that was indeed the last. Mr. Kikilia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u234	I would like to say, Mr President, that we need to look at this again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u235	No, you can't go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u236	It doesn't mean that because there's a contract, we can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u237	You've heard. It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Kikilia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have made an effort to demonstrate the problems facing our local communities throughout the territory, our islands, Central Macedonia, Attica and other regions, which are suddenly called upon to face a disproportionate burden. We sincerely believe that the way in which the matter is dealt with - not you personally - your Government has been completely wrong at the beginning. Proof is that he caused a large part of the problem and we still believe that. You've changed policy, trying to pick up uncomfortables. But you're still running chaotics. In a country which has very serious economic problems, Mr President, it is not possible for regular funds to be used by Europe, as the government officially says, 27% -28% - we say that it is 10% - when it should be 80% and for an effort to cover these gaps with exceptional funding or from the national budget. It is impossible for local society to tolerate this. It is also impossible for local communities to tolerate that there cannot be elementary compensation so that everyone understands that, yes, these people support the national effort, but local economies are also stimulated to balance this very big problem, which is in tourism in these societies, the breakdown of the social fabric and other phenomena. Look, whether we were doing our jobs better or not, or whether you did it, it's something that doesn't have to be commented on. I think people see and judge. But I also have to make a few points very quickly. First. The Executive Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA is not here. I think it is not enough to say that there is no question of the New Democracy as far as the children of the whole world and the schools are concerned. To finish this candy. What we have said and I have been responsible for doing so as a doctor is that the world and local communities must be informed and informed that children throughout the world are not in danger, as are local populations, as are the children of refugees. Everybody! There have been several proposals. I'm able to know there's an attempt to get these kids vaccinated. This is not a total attempt. Perhaps a proposal which was heard by the Minister for the Health Booklet, which may not be provided, is a way and there is a screening from CEDEFOP and the Ministry of Health if the NGOs are really doing their job and a way of being blocked by those who, possibly, doubt if the children are vaccinated, so if it's all right. It's an important element, you know, order and security and the feeling that a government has control over the situation. I have shown in my protology that your government has no control over the situation. So, to end this, I must talk about how we feel that the situation with non-governmental organisations needs to be addressed. Look, a series of government officials have admitted that there is no control over non-governmental organisations. Apart from the fact that a large part of the funding goes directly there, it is controlled for opacity by many of them. A lot of them do their job very well. But, in any case, it is not a wish. The government is obliged to control them. It is one of our first priorities, when we take over the governance of this country, to be able to reconstruct the sense and concept of order and security for Greek citizens and local communities, to explain early and adequately, to have a programming for where the thing goes and to have humanity for these people. Those unfortunate ones, who passed through the Aegean, came here, got trapped and feel that we have smacked them all together, Mr President, refugees, illegal immigrants, vulnerable groups, LEADs, single-parent families, unaccompanied and so on. I understand that it may be a great workload, possibly, for those who have not learned to operate on a programme, methodicality, put things in a series. It is, however, a problem that Greek society has to deal with and carries on its backs. The government is judged by this. It is not judged either by the words I have heard from either general words. Minister, we have repeatedly come to the House with timely questions and questions on the issue of refugees - immigration, which we regard as having and - Mr Kammenos said so - internal security issues are important in a world that is evolving. It is not the same Europe as the one we knew, it is not Greece itself. There are challenges and risks, Mr President. When we are all talking about new jobs or development, you can imagine that without security there cannot be freedom without freedom there can be no democracy. There can be no investment without security, so growth. So all this nebulous landscape of which components you do not want to have any order, no control, who are these solidaritys, who may complain about everything that may happen, how you deal with the security bodies and if you let them do their job is about how we feel that this matter needs to be dealt with internally. As for the outside - and I will close with this - I think that there has never been such a clear and strong position, without populism, as well as the Officerial Responsibility and Mr Mitsotakis on this issue in Europe and the European People's Party. Take note now of how bad, Minister, my colleagues feel when you are very easy to see slandering a minister here saying that you are right in front of us: If you do not agree with me, you are a fascist. If you don't agree with my view, you're on fire. There is nothing more authoritarian and fascist than that, Mr President. And I'm obviously not talking to you, Mr. Muzala. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u241	However, with Mr. Vorides, who visited a camp in Sicily, they took Italian lessons not only young children in the camp but also large children.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u242	The relevant committee that visited the country here, Mr Varremene, could not even get in and was almost enclaved and then sent sms from the House to the House not to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u243	Okay. Don't make this conversation right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u244	On the 3rd of the month, it was forbidden to come European MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u245	Oh, no. Let me tell you now, as far as the committee that I represent is concerned, it has been in consultation with you as well, as far as I am concerned. Mr. Muzalas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u246	Tones are falling, without criticising falling. The essence of criticism remains, they leave lymphatic and ideologies, either on the one hand or on the other. We're actually entering. I didn't hear proposals and it would be very interesting. Can I tell you something? In the last question Mr Kaklamanis made a proposal. We adopted it. Today we have her here. We have heard a criticism, good, bad, in my opinion, is not a good criticism. We didn't hear suggestions. I move on to the proposals as quickly as I can.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u247	You're the government. You are applying a specific policy. It is not about putting forward proposals. I remind you that you are a government and you are implementing policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u248	That's what I mean. It's a verbal mistake, incitement to the House. So what is the plan for the mainland? At the moment, the plan for extinction is progressing, namely the people, who are in these first temporary structures, to suffer as much as possible. It's a whole plan, full, and I'll present it to the House. At the same time, the plan for the new decent structures is being developed. Here I would like to tell you that we have been negotiating with DG ECHO and the NGOs and the institutions. I hope it'll be over in the next ten days. I have been in Europe three times for one day for this. We are lucky that Mr Stylianides - he has a great deal of experience - is a Commissioner in this area and helps us. We have succeeded in saying that the action of NGOs will be carried out on the basis of the national plan and we are now trying to do as specifically as we can. I hope after ten days - it is not just up to me - to be able to present the plan with the new camps. However, the new camps are small structures. Most of it's about five hundred people. There are only two, if there are, with a thousand and five hundred people. Now we have both two thousand and three thousand. They're better divided. They go to all the counties now. We drink too much and we stress the apartments. The shot is the food to leave the catering, have the kitchen houses inside and have voucher, which is funded to eat, go to school and have health. On the islands. And on the islands we need your help. Beyond the conflicts, beyond that, the islands need your help. Since we have all come to the conclusion that the Europe-Turkey agreement is an agreement that helps our country, with all the difficulties it has, we must not be the reason to suppress the agreement. Sounds so easy. And can I tell you something? I could tell you too. The stake is great. It's the deal. We can't evacuate the islands. We can do the following specific things: "Evacuate" the ones who have taken three-ways. They are the ones who will not leave Turkey. Most are vulnerable, Syrian refugees, such things. We must try to bring most minors to the mainland, because most minors go into the blame, which they will not go back to Turkey. It is a charge that we need to see very carefully, because, apart from the emotion and the real drama that it hides, there are various things that can be done as a pull factor, i.e. factors that bring them. What else do we need on the islands? We need new spaces. Here, gentlemen of the New Democracy, and the world on the islands - and I think your executives have had a negative impact on this - are making the following mistakes: They are presenting the division for multiplication. Let's get Chios. Chios has Vial. Vial was built, gentlemen, when they came, they sat two days and left. So I didn't lie. The circumstances have changed, they have a dynamic one. It's true that VIAL now doesn't fit anymore. That's why they went to Souda, that's why they went to D.I.E.L.D. We have managed all this time, which we are pulling back threefold, to empty the PPCTHI, so that we can create well-being and go to what Mr Kikilias says, namely to increase security and public order. The first thing we have to do is create a place where, by dividing the population of BIAL, we will install the householders, say, of these people. Why should anyone object to this if this is much more accompanied by the creation of a closed centre where the offender, the illegal one, can be isolated? And you've lived that. You know that this is how boldness prevails in the other camps. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] It's not new hot spots. Don't say that word. You're multiplying instead of dividing. I'm explaining. You're talking about closed centers. Let's go build closed centers and your people are opposed. We will then proceed for closed centers in Athens. I'll tell you. We therefore have no other solution for the islands, since we have all agreed here that the Europe-Turkey agreement is of interest to us. The only solution that can come from is through decongestion - populations I have explained to you what can be - the tension, which can be very important. And this will be accompanied by an increase in policing - the islanders are right - so that there is no such evidence that is badly working under the stress of the moment, under their personal pain, anything. And what else? Increasing asylum. I presented you with a plan. To do this, we also need an increase in EASO. Let me tell you something now: it is not a serious thing to say 'we do not want FRONTEX'. You didn't say that. Someone else said it. They declare eighty and twenty-nine, and SYRIZA is accused of not wanting others. There's no human being coming here and we don't want him. There isn't. That's their offer. And I am going to talk about this further and about the particular role the opposition of the democratic arch may play. We have already increased the Appeals Committees with the judges, based on European law and not on the way we found them. Mr. Kikilis knows. The Judges' committees will be thirteen in November. We are going to make a huge effort, then, to create a return. They blame us on Europe for delaying us. They're not right. We're late, but we're in a phase where everyone's applying for asylum. Everyone, but everyone, is applying for asylum. The examination of the asylum application can only be based on international law. You see what international organizations are like above us. They control us, they do, they sew. All right, they're doing their job. Is there anyone here who believes that we should go beyond international law and vote for another law and not be with the Geneva Treaty? I believe no one. So these things need to be done, so that the returns can begin. I showed you a return plan. I'll testify to you. Is there a lot of a hundred twenty, a hundred fifty returns we intend to start in a few days? Oh, no. It is, however, a first message to the slave traders that "children, we are going back now, because the system began to flow". It is also a small message to the inhabitants of the islands that 'children, slowly, we will clear the islands'. If we can make it. The plan is done. It will depend on whether they will come from Europe and those eighty people of EASO we have asked for, from the four hundred who have promised us. Returns, along with the closed malicious data centers, are also a message that can reduce flows, which, as you know, have been reduced to an incredible degree. Five million from the Ministry of Interior will be given the next period for the restoration of damage. More money has been given to the islands. Through projects by non-governmental organizations they have taken money. That's not what I'm saying, to say how lucky the islands are. I say that we very clearly know the financial difficulties. We are clearly trying to heal what we can heal. It is a question of criticism, whether we do it well or not. But we're trying to do it, and we're doing it. So, Muzala, what are you telling us? That everything's okay? No, I'm not saying it's all right. I'm saying in the mainland the chaos took shape. She's, we like her-- we don't like her. We can work now. They're all registered, gentlemen, and they're in the apartments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u249	How about decongestion from northern Greece? The design?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u250	They've already been down seven thousand. They've been decongested by seven thousand. They'll close over half the centers in northern Greece. I have a responsibility towards northern Greece, and I have to say that the cooperation that I found from the local government and the district manager was excellent, without falling into criticism, and he can teach us all that criticism you can make and cooperate seriously.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u251	On the islands what, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u252	I've explained. I told you our plan. That's our plan. A place needs to be built to divide the population. If this space is presented as a multiplication of hot spots, the islands will be destroyed. If you suggest that we clear the islands and drop the deal, we cannot agree. I said before, well, we haven't done everything well. When I said the shortcomings we found, an easy way - so I don't move the finger - is to say it to blame you. Oh, no. I am trying together with the government to resolve the issue in real terms and in society. The reality we found was this one thousand hundred and ninety - six hosting places. The reality we found for the border was that. Where can we agree today? I would like you to reconsider the issue of the islands. It's not multiplication, it's division. We have no other way. In Chios, for example, we have secured from DG ECHO EUR 3,700,000 to build another space on a mountain so that we can clear Souda and dismantle the VIAL. What's wrong with that? It's division, it's not multiplication. But let's go further. We agree, I hope, that the Europe-Turkey Agreement must survive. Through this debate, the controversy at foreign policy level at the attitude of the parties on the democratic arch is the following: we agree, in the criticism of everyone, that we must fight the Europe-Turkey agreement. We agree that we must fight to increase relocation, relocation. We agree that a European refund mechanism should finally be built and that the host country should not be entrusted with returning. The Commissioner agrees. What I'm telling you is what we're putting into this diplomatic marathon we've started. We agree that we should call for the islands to be dismantled by transporting people who may be returned to Turkey, on the basis of the agreement, in closed centres in the inland. We agree that we require the European Union and Turkey to take their responsibility, to do everything they have to do. We agree that we want an increase in EASO, we agree that we want an increase in FRONTEX and we are against alternative solidarity, flexible solidarity, namely: 'Keep the refugees and I'm sending you ten thousand blankets. You hold the refugees and I send you 100 thousand sleeping bags." We don't want to. Europe has been built on the 'I share the problem'. The problem is refugees. He has to share the problem. I do not want you to answer me whether or not we agree with them. All parties to the democratic arch in their parties in Europe, everyone in the pressure they can exert, must move forward, to be able to give solutions to practices. I'm done depositing materials. Here is my proof, but not as a charge, as a reality we have received, that if we were to use border guards, you were not guarding the borders. I don't claim that. But I have here the evidence: how many people have come in, how many have come out. Mr. Kikilia, in 2014 you didn't have fifty thousand to expel. Only sixteen thousand seven hundred fifty one were Albanians. The others were Somals. Did you return to Somalia, Pakistan, Syria? We've tried five times.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u253	That's the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u254	We've been sent back to the planes. You know how it's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u255	I didn't say it was easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u256	We'll testify here for the unaccompanied children. We will also submit the data on the increase in asylum. I tell you that we will soon be forced to legislate again on asylum so that the number of returns can be increased. This document is, in the sadness of living for the problem, and a pride. It is a European Union report, which was presented to the ambassadors in Greece of the European Union, on what we have done since our duties. In 80% -90% of our duties we have done 100%. Unfortunately, this document is only a hundred and sixty-six hosting places in two years' time, and the convicts we have received from the European Court of Justice and those problems we have found. Here's the sponsorship table we made on the islands. These things are of particular importance here. It's the school program. I have read very carefully the programme you have presented as a New Democracy. You think they'll be classrooms. Look, it's objective. Where they rise, your people head on presumption. I don't give anyone the Golden Dawn. I don't give anyone a racial or fascism. Nobody! This is the greatest gift one could make. They're scared. But there's this coincidence. Your people are there, in the few places, that's what happened. What did we do? I'll agree with Mr. Kikilia. I've already agreed with Mr. Kaklamani. We're trying to reassure things, get over fears. I shall therefore present the programme to you. It's all about kids and it's about older children, that is, high school kids. It won't be quick, it won't happen right away. It'll start on October 10th, pilots. There's no country that within five months would put the kids in some way at school. You know, when the first multicultural schools had to be made, how many years of immigration it took to set up one, two and then the institution established. This document is something of great interest to you. It's health check. You will see in that now there is a weekly, almost all the structures we have, which bells us that here you have to do something, here you have to do this, there you have to do this. You'll find inside the evidence of all vaccinations. We estimate that the children with vaccination potential are fifteen thousand. About thirteen thousand have been vaccinated, twelve thousand seventeen so many children have been vaccinated. The evidence is here. In another five thousand children, special vaccines have been made. I'm talking about the triple vaccine. It's a wonderful work of the Ministry of Health. Our children are in no danger because the refugees are vaccinated. And you, Mr. Kikilia, are a doctor and you know that, when the vaccinations have reached 80%, there is a barrier. However, they will go to 100%. For NGOs, which is a request for your programme, I am presenting to you today the NGO register, which exists and has started to work. This will facilitate the control of non-governmental organisations. This was an opposition position I had. I'm withdrawing it. Let me show you, in other words, that where the residents rise for a center around there are no villages. We're withdrawing this. Here are the deaths in the ports, in the trucks, seven years. You said it before. Seven years was Patra. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Caravans washed, boat burned, arsons were arsonized. I don't call it an accusation. This is immigration. The manipulations are sometimes better, sometimes worse. In these documents I have the hospitality centers in southern, central and northern Greece and the solutions that are already in place to prepare for the winter while building the new ones. As I told you, I hope I have the new camps after ten days. Here is the financial management of the refugee crisis. This document does not have to be submitted to you. It is a proof that 70% of European states have prime ministers from the People's Party and from Social Democracy. What does that mean? That you have a pressure potential at an internal level and I ask you to exercise it. I'm not incriminating you. I know what Hungarian is and I know what you are. You're in the same party. Do not incriminate us because Europe has made this decision. We are together to make Europe another decision. We have no other solution. Finally, here are concrete actions taken in connection with the implementation of the law. And other things will come. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. I'm a little richer than this conversation. Proposals, criticisms, warfare. But suggestions. The problem is solved with proposals, with a plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the following: The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics shall submit its reports to the Prosecutor's requests for permission to prosecute Members of Parliament. Also, the Special Permanent Committees for the Greek Dissociation, Environmental Protection, Research and Technology and Road Safety, as well as the Subcommittee on Water Resources of the Special Standing Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, are presenting their reports in accordance with Rule 43A(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The relevant reports will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting. [[The above reports, due to large volumes, are not recorded in the Minutes and are kept electronically in the archives of the Parliamentary Legislative Office.]] The debate on number 34/28/1-8-2016 on the need for an alternative migration plan in the face of the current risk of collapse of the European Union-Turkey Agreement is being concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, the minutes of Monday 11 July 2016, Friday 15 July 2016, Tuesday 19 July 2016, Thursday 20 July 2016, Thursday 21 July 2016 (Morning), Thursday 21 July 2016 (Morning), Friday 22 July 2016, Monday 25 July 2016, Wednesday 27 July 2016, Thursday 27 July 2016, Thursday 28 July 2016, Friday 29 July 2016, Monday 29 July 2016, Monday 1 August 2016, Tuesday 2 August 2016, Wednesday 3 August 2016, Thursday 3 August 2016, Thursday 4 August 2016, Friday 5 August 2016, Monday 5 August 2016, Monday 29 August 2016, Tuesday 29 August 2016, Tuesday, Tuesday 30 September 2016, Wednesday 31 September 2016, Thursday 1 September 2016, Friday 1 September 2016, 2 September 2016, 9 September 2016, 9 September 2016, 9 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016 and 21 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 28 September 2016, 28 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 28 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016 and 20 September 2016 and 20 September 2016 and 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016 and 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016 and 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 20 September 2016
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u258	The minutes of Monday 11 July 2016, Friday 15 July 2016, Tuesday 19 July 2016, Wednesday 20 July 2016, Thursday 21 July 2016 (Monday), Thursday 21 July 2016 (Monday), Friday 22 July 2016, Monday 25 July 2016, Wednesday 27 July 2016, Thursday 28 July 2016, Thursday 28 July 2016, Friday 29 July 2016, Monday 1 August 2016, Tuesday, Tuesday 1 August 2016, Tuesday 2 August 2016, Wednesday 3 August 2016, Thursday 4 August 2016, Friday 5 August 2016, Monday 29 August 2016, Monday 29 August 2016, Tuesday 30 August 2016, Tuesday 31 August 2016, Wednesday 31 September 2016, Thursday 1 September 2016, Friday 2 September 2016, Monday 5 September 2016, Tuesday, 6 September 2016, Tuesday, 6 September 2016, 8 September 2016, Friday 8 September 2016, 9 September 2016, 9 September 2016, 12 September 2016, 14 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 21 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 28 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 28 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 20 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 28 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 20 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 20 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, 22 September 2016, Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary session is being completed today. The end of the proceedings of the IZ Session of the President-in-Office of the Parliamentary Republic will be declared with the relevant Presidential Decree, which will be published in the Official Journal of the Government and will be tampered with. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-30-S1-commons.u259	With the consent of the House at 14.52' the sitting for Monday, October 3rd, 2016, at 11.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: a) Communication of the Presidential Decree to close the proceedings of the First Session and b) Sanctuation to begin the proceedings of the Second Session by the Maririan Archbishop of Athens and of all Greece Mr. Hieronym and the members of the Standing Sacred Session, according to the special agenda distributed.
