ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Discussion and decision, pursuant to Articles 68(2) of the Constitution and 144 next to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, on the proposal put forward by the Prime Minister and President of the Group of the Radical Left coalition, Mr Alexis Tsipras and his party MPs and the President of the Group of Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos and his party MPs, for a committee of inquiry into the legality of lending political parties as well as the owners of the media companies from the banking institutions of the country. The debate on the proposal for a committee of inquiry shall be held in accordance with Rule 144 and with the appropriate application of Rule 137(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. In particular, with regard to the organisation of the debate, I would suggest that the procedure should begin with a first circle of eight speakers, one of each parliamentary group. The first will be the Member of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and secondly the MEP of the Greek Parliamentary Group of Independents who have tabled the proposal for the committee of inquiry, in accordance with Rule 144(4) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Each MEP will be given the floor for ten minutes without a secondary right. Also, the parties have already submitted statements of speakers and a single list has been drawn up by the service with rotational speakers in proportion to the parliamentary power of the parties, as has been applied by parliamentary practice in the past. The speaking time of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups will be set out in Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. the Prime Minister and the Chief of Police will be given the floor for twenty minutes and the other Heads of the Party will be given the floor for fifteen minutes. I propose that the ministers speak for twelve minutes of the hour, the parliamentary representatives for eight minutes, but that the President of their parliamentary group speak for four minutes. Does the House agree that this proposal will be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u2	I therefore have the honour to announce to you the first eight speakers, as their parties have indicated. It is MP Mr. Spyridonas Lappas from the Radical Left coalition, MP Mr. Dimitris Kammenos from the Independent Greeks, MP Niki Kerameos from New Democracy, MP Ilias Kashiriris from the People's Association - Golden Dawn, MP Mr. Ioannis Koutsoukos from the Democratic Assent of PASOK - DIMAR, MP Mr. Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Konstantinos Bargiotas from Potamis and MP Mr. Anastasios Megalamistakis from the Association of Kentrons. The single list of speakers will be made up of fifteen MPs, involving five MPs from the Radical Left Coalition, three MPs from New Democracy and one from the other parties and an independent MP. The speakers on the single directory will be given the floor for six minutes, without the right to secondary education. After all, as you know, a roll-call vote will take place. So we're starting. Mr. Lappa, you have the floor for ten minutes, as we have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the shadow of shocking revelations, Panama Papers is shaking governments, resigning prime ministers, arousing the economic and political life of the planet. At the same time, the revelations of WikiLeaks in Greece and Europe reveal an imperial blackmail of the IMF. In both cases it is revealed that what we common mortals call legal order is not for everyone. Unfortunately, it only concerns us mortals. It is once again revealed that the aggression of the financial system has completely dominated politics, with disastrous consequences for the peoples and states. For the dominant economic and political elite around the world, for these peoples are simple numbers rather than people with needs and rights. The phenomenon has described it for the world situation perfectly, in the best way the intellectuals of our time, Chomsky, Hambermas, Castoriadis, Bauman, Totorov, Bandiu, Nobelised economists Stiglic and Krugman. Time, however, does not allow me to make more detailed references to their work. Faced with these events that shock the inhabited world, in our country the New Democracy, instead of evaluating the elements of the leak and placing itself against them, is obsessed with a sterile, sterile type of conception of things and all it does is seek the source of the leak, which no one puts around the world any longer. It is unique and exclusive. Ladies and gentlemen, the economic and political framework that was the greenhouse action and operation of the New Democracy and the PASOK on the issue of lending them is a major economic and political scandal, one of the most serious in post-multiple, perpetrators of your two parties. Will you, ladies and gentlemen, assume your responsibilities for this? The Parliament and the Greek people are waiting and waiting for your positions today. As I will analyse below, the way in which the political system has operated in the years of post-multipleism can no longer continue. The parties, who of course have their constitutional legitimacy in Article 29 of the Constitution, as an expression of the democratic culture, must boldly and determinedly discuss all the paths and negative manifestations of our political system, particularly of the parties, so that there can finally be a starting point for something to be recovered from its lost honor and credibility. With regard to the interests of dialogue, the Prime Minister himself here in the debate on a pre-date for justice sent the message, addressed the owners of SMEs and other companies that have loans and do not pay them back. We tell them once and for all that they will have to decide: Or they will put their hands in the pocket to settle their unfinished business and obey legality, which applies to all Greek citizens in this country, or they will finally abandon the effort to be supposedly economic power, with state exclusive money, which the Greek people ultimately pays. Our government did not hide, as you know, any lists or cds with taxi in drawers, finance power parties without any guarantee of their repayment and does not give credit to credit and fierce loans, which, in the end, in order to be honest, is paid by the Greek people, through the process of recapitalising the banks. "Papastauros" you will not find in our yard! So we're actually going to the core of our proposal for the parties' loans. Ladies and gentlemen, how many loans have the parties in the New Democracy and PASOK received? From the debate in the House on justice, the Prime Minister himself mentioned two figures. He said that New Democracy received global loans of 210 million, PASOK 115 million and was not disproved by any of you. We ask: is these loans regulated? For what specific amounts and in what terms? If the arrangement was made, what are the annual instalments and how long have they been agreed to be paid? The answers to these questions must, of course, be given from the conclusion of our committee which will be set up by Parliament today, together with the answers to the questions raised by the SYRIZA - ANEL request, which we hope will be a decisive step in restoring at last, even to a certain extent, the honour and credibility of the political system and of the parties, namely democracy itself. In the science of Constitutional Law it is common assumption that the smooth functioning and realisation of fundamental constitutional principles and values, such as the democratic principle, popular sovereignty, the free and unadulterated expression of popular will, are directly and strongly dependent on the way the parties that claim their parliamentary representation and, of course, on the exercise of state power. The constitutional provisions for the establishment and functioning of political parties, Article 29 of the Constitution, the rules of inner-party democracy, the provision for their financial support by the State, i.e. State funding, the control of their economics on the basis of the principles of transparency, publicity and the principle of democratic concentration and their functioning, as well as their responsibility for managing them, are institutional provisions and guarantees for the smooth functioning of the culture. In particular, the question of the state funding of political parties and the question of the controls of their economics are concerned with the Greek public in the last few decades and with the parliamentary life of the country, which is why we have repeated interventions by both the public and the constitutional legislature that bear witness to the institutional vigilance imposed, L. 1443/1984, 2409/1996, etc., Revision Constitution in 2001 and L.4304/2014, in October 2014. In fact, in the explanatory memorandum to the last law, it is concluded that a number of recommendations have contributed to its formation by the GRECO Committee, a group of States against Corruption, so that Greece - says the same recommendation - takes appropriate measures to ensure that loans granted to political parties are not used to circumvent the financing regulations and to verify whether the loans are repaid under the conditions under which they were granted. Now, because it's a big text, I'll tell you two words to understand legally what's going on. What did the two parties do, taking state funding? What guarantees did they provide to ensure the repayment of the loans? Here's what happened. The only guarantee given by the two parties this past year was one thing, the expectation of state funding, which would be a percentage of the state budget. Here's what we got now. Do we have anything for sure, the particular, the certain, the safe? Nothing, because - listen to see - and state funding, which is a percentage of the budget, is uncertain, since in recent years the state budget has been constantly falling, but we also have a shrinking of the electoral power of both parties, so the guarantee they have given for state funding is uncertain and unsafe. So, as far as lawyers are concerned now and legally thinking, these loans were actually granted without any guarantee, despite the fact that there is no man of legal science who has been involved, wrote and published anything about political parties who have not a single basic principle. Can the parties be borrowed? Of course they can. In fact, it is constitutional and legally permissible. However, the parties themselves and the banks themselves have to demand guarantees - mainly mortgage and mortgage supplementation - at least equal to the value of the loan. We're talking about piracy. But let us see what bank practice is. We lawyers know her. There is no case for a loan to a simple Greek citizen and to a company and not to claim security at 130% of the value of the loan, interest, expenses etc. Did it ever happen here? It never happened, neither with the New Democracy nor with the PASOK. In all their lending, the only guarantee was the expectation of the future of state funding as a percentage of the budget, assuming that they will have 40% and 45% as an electoral force. Ladies and gentlemen, the responsibility of the administrations of the banks now that they have accepted as the only guarantee that this expectation has only been given to state funding was almost a given one, because the granting of a future claim to the state, Mrs Kerameus, did not seem to be an adequate guarantee, at least as the bank agency himself says, to ensure that the interests of the banks are fully and fully guaranteed. In this respect, I will tell you something else. It is not only state funding as a percentage of the budget and electoral power, but also something else, because it is fluid and uncertain, because we may have changes in the faces of the party leadership, we may have a possible change in the existing law, as has been done. So, as far as the percentage of state funding is concerned, each of these conditions and cumulatively together could overthrow the data of the agreement made by the two parties, weaken the guarantee provided and ultimately bring the banks to bear with unforeseen developments, undermining their interests, which has ultimately been done. And you know that in politics, economy and football everything is valid from the result. The loans, therefore, of the New Republic and of the PASOK are loan and unscrupulous. And because I don't have much time, I tell you that in the end, gentlemen of PASOK and of the New Democracy, you have accomplished two things. First of all, you must lift the criminal liability of the banks, but also not pay off your loans and your parties to go bankrupt. But you did something else more important. You have reached Nadir the honor and credibility of your parties and the political system, while highlighting the style and the morality of the political system, which was your own political system, which you have set up with a series of actions and omissions that will be entered into the collective social and political consciousness, but also in the legal and institutional memory. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I will say a few words here - and I would like, Madam President, your tolerance for a minute - in good faith. Thirty years ago your Chief Averoff received a party with surpluses and delivered it with 7,000 deficits. What do you say Averov did, this fragile conservative politician? It sold its private property and covered the entire deficit of your party. Does that mean anything to you? If he tells you, you'll have to be restrained! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I would like, please, to have your tolerance for a minute. I shall therefore conclude, Madam President, with the media. What about the media? I will give the Minutes a table - not to repeat it - to which all the media loans are registered for each bank. I must tell you that the debts of all systemic media to the four banks, National, Piraeus, Eurobank and Alpha, are 808,000, as the Prime Minister said here. Mr Drasakis said that it was a million, 000, 000, and another 35,000, 000 from the advertising tax and the PSE fines. We are therefore talking about hundreds of millions that exceed 1,000,000,000 in total. That's the media. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Lappas, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to remind you of something else, which I do not want to overlook. Umberto Eko said that dictatorships are no longer done with tanks but with televisions. But dying, he said the best: "When the media triumphs in a society, man dies." Will we allow all of us as a political system for SMEs to gain such power through state money and to operate effectively bankrupt without any state control? Ladies and gentlemen, - and I conclude with this - the situation of mutual service, extortion, hitting under the middle and economic dependency on the central role of banks between these businesses and the governments and the parties so far has been recorded in the political scene with the elegant 'complexation'. This is how huge questions arise about their sustainability, but above all about citizens' information themselves, considered a fundamental public asset. In today's government and in the parties it is for the first time that they put the finger on the type of suns by controlling the legality of their funding and the final destination of the loans. It is time for courageous steps to be taken to help restore the somewhat shrinking credibility of these media. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, today we are not discussing a problem, we are discussing the problem of the political system and democracy, which has become unprecedented and credible by you, gentlemen, of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, in the state the form of your actions. You did what Isocrates said "the whole city of the city is like the rulers", that is, the state was like the person of your actions, your politics. We will fight what the Romans have said 'homo homini lupus', that is, a wolf, a man for man, and we will implement the prototype of 'every kind of human money'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Lappa. I would ask everyone and everyone to observe the time, so that we can get to the vote at some point of importance for everyone, so that we can leave. Mr. Dimitris Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. It's a very important day today. It is an examination which has been announced - I think - many years by many colleagues, too many parties. For many reasons, it had never been voted for. This is an extremely serious matter. It's a major politician. It is money that has been given to all political parties and the media over the years, which in the end is the money of the Greek people. Last and ever since then, banks have been recapitalised or have, if you like, been charged on the back of the Greek people. Because any loan which is a bad loan, whether the state guarantee expires or is not repaid, goes and is paid by the state budget, is therefore paid by the Greek taxpayer. So from the moment that there is potentially a debt to the Greek taxpayer from a political party that is unable to fulfil its credit obligations towards a banking institution, the whole process of receiving and using the money should come to light. This examination for me and because of my object must have a structure, it must have a method and it must be clear and what we are asking for, at least politically. I will explain a little further, because we will consider it in the first phase politically, and we will also see criminals. First we have to see all the loan contracts that have been concluded since the year we decide the examination until this year or last year, when the last financial uses of the parties expire. These loan contracts, together with their modifications or extensions and their terms, will be the first objective and clear picture of how the loans were granted and we will see the risk that the bank took and the party's responsibility for repaying each loan with the bank. The second thing we need to do is to look at the balance sheets. But because there were no balances in the parties - badly - until 2013 - there were revenue - cost books - from the year we decided to make up to the last use of the 1915s, to see the balance sheets, to see the revenues - costs, to see the books of the parties and to see where the money went. Because under law, each party is obliged at the end of the year, in the first two months of the next, to provide accountancy data on where the money went, whether these are donations, coupons, subsidies, regular and exceptional revenues, plus loan contracts, relations with any body and the use of this money. It's very simple, one, two, three issues. We'll give you the most details in the exam. Today, at least I will give a basic roadmap and some elements that are too important to understand what has happened in that country. The first point I should like to make - and I put the word'must' - is the 'forgotten' conclusion by Mr Nicholas. In Mr. Nikoloudis' conclusion, the indictment is clear with names. On 15 March 2013, this prosecutor, among other things, has requested the investigation of any criminal responsibilities of the Governor of the Bank of Greece Mr. Georgios Provopoulou on the transfer case of Proton Bank and the businessman Laurentiadis. On forty-four pages of the Gibraltar petition he described in the most detailed way the scandal of party seafoods. This is 198,7 million euros, provided by the State Agricultural Bank in New Democracy and the PASOK, guaranteeing State funding up to 2018. I will not read it all, but the time will come for the committee to analyse it. There were criminal responsibilities and I also have the transfer to the House, with protocol number 3929/153-2013 to the Prosecutors of Athens, Mr. Gregory Pepponis, and the prosecutor of economic crime. This triennial page is signed by Mr Nicoludi. He's got all the names inside. It is not here to mention them or to create impressions. List of names, party directors, party directors, accountants, bankers, who are responsible for and transmitted with this particular transfer for further investigation. What is of particular importance - and I was surprised this morning, because I did not know it, in my research on this issue - is that, all of a sudden, while the transmission had been sent to the Prosecutor Nikoloudis, on 4 April, i.e. in less than one month, in twenty days, three fellow Members of the New Democracy, Mr Christoyannis, Mr Tsumanis, Mr Stamenitis, brought an amendment to VEC 90A (18-4/2013) in Article 78. I will read it because it is of great importance and again I say that Mr Nicoludis has a list of names for responsibilities: "It does not constitute infidelity within the meaning of Articles 256 and 390 of the Criminal Code for the President, the members of the Board. and bank managers shall enter into loans of all kinds with public or private legal persons, non-profit-making, of the general public sector, as defined in the law, as well as the provision of credit to them in general provided that the following conditions are met: (a) there are decisions by the institutionalised approval committees or bodies of each bank; and (b) the relevant regulatory acts of the Bank of Greece have been complied with at the time they were granted.’ We are giving, within less than twenty-five days of Mr Nicoludis being transferred to Mr Peponnese on a list of names with criminal responsibilities, with an amendment to immunity to the banks that gave so-called sea loans. He needs an exam. Mr Nicoludi's conclusion, which is forty-four pages, will be requested by the Committee of Inquiry and for me, is one of the points of view. It is all the documentation, in fact, of a competent prosecutor on the matter that we are going to discuss in this House. There's been too much. The most important lever of lending political money was the Agricultural Bank. There are files, I have them here, but I'm just going to talk about and make use of them in the examination. The Agricultural Bank has given some EUR 5 billion to agricultural cooperatives and other organisations. There has never been a request for an accounting report on where the money went. I'm gonna speculate that a lot of this money might have been returned in a really nice way back to the parties. He's staying to see it. Why were the loans granted and the money not claimed back? Why did they go not just to non-performing loans but were they unacceptably collected? We will never collect them, i.e. delete them. We gave them up and forgot about 5 billion euros. Do I have the full list of where everything went, full list? in agricultural cooperatives, and not only, which are directly and indirectly linked to political parties. Secondly, in the management of each party, or any VDU, whether it is a limited company or a club or whatever form it has, when it controls revenue and expenditure, it must be clear the flows and cash flows of revenue and expenditure. From my own experience, a party's income is specific and its costs must be reflected in the accounts, which, as we said, will be asking for, in the first two months of the year. However, there are some complaints and I will refer to the press reports, the statements made by Mr Tsukatos, the statements by Mrs Tsakalou of SIEMENS, in particular by Mr Christoforikos, the articles by Mr Traga to 'CRASH'. And the committee will judge whether or not they can be called as witnesses or in any way provide evidence if they are directly involved. They are complaints that there was black money coming from ‘SIEMENS’ on a percentage and that was given to the parties. See if that's what it is, if that's true. Because it can be part of the revenues of parties, cashiers, black money, which is not a donation. Because when money is given against OTE's state contracts or anything else, it's not a donation and in general the money to the parties is not donations. The money to the parties has a specific purpose and serves a specific purpose, political and entrepreneurial. So it will remain to be seen whether the income, as it is said, of 2%, as mentioned in the interviews, with too many documents, bills of gold mines and everything else, went to the parties to serve purposes, so it is another income of the party. Note: We have, therefore, state grant tactical - emergency, election grant, coupons, donations, possibly black money. That's what the complaints say, so Mr. Tsukatos said, because he went to the prosecutor himself and said "I took the money to the party fund". All this is party revenue. We'll see about it. The question always remains where the money went, because you can't get three hundred million, forty million loans along with all the revenue I've said, and in the end you can't afford to pay anything. The money went somewhere. We need to investigate where the money went and that is the purpose of the committee of inquiry. One of the aims is to see if any sins were legally or in a suspicious way or in a treacherous or unrighteous way, if any sins were forgiven. But at the end of the day we have to conclude where the money went, because if we don't find out where the money went, there's no point in the committee of inquiry. I think we agree: Whatever entered a party, it must have a legitimate use, and at least it must be demonstrated by tax documents. The fact that it is not established by tax documents requires liquidation and direct public intervention. Because it cannot be a party, a professional VDU, a natural or legal person who receives a product of crime, such as black money, and continues to work. Any of us in our professional activity accepted black money, product of crime, criminal act, rinsing, the next day it would have been closed, downloaded rolls, and we'd all be in the prosecutor's. No VAT can continue to function, which has been proven to have made use of black money or of a product of crime, because it is money undeclared both from a strange source and for strange and unproven reason used. As far as the two major parties are concerned, they have many responsibilities. Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, as a new Chief, as a young man, calls for transparency. We're all young people. I'm young in politics. I believe he will bring transparency to his party from now on. We should, however, see whether Mr Mitsotakis will support transparency and beforehand, because if in political life we cover everything for various reasons, political, fellow Members, anything, the people see that there is an inequality and an inequality. We're young people and new politicians. Mr. Mitsotakis is also a new party leader and he has the backgrounds, if you want, to go forward and he should show a good person that we're not folding. Let's throw light on everything to close this black page of Greek political life. As you wish, and with the findings of PASOK, which are in prosecutors: I do not know whether it is Mr Athanasios or Mr Bris. I do not know where Mr Venizelos has delivered his findings, which have never come from, for the PASOK funds, which have huge gaps proved to be. But they will come to the House sometime, to see why and how they are to the prosecutors and what happens from there on out. As far as the media are concerned, the work is far simpler. Loans, balances published. They're big anonymous corporations. We will see what guarantees they gave, what money they took and what role they played politically, who are their shareholders, whether they are obvious or unseen, whether they are offshore, if they are natural persons and how they were affected and what their history is in relation to their own companies and sister production companies, advertising, etc. We know the job. We know what to look for, so that with good faith we can give the people the image that some people came to bring to light some things, some procedures, which were not clear, so that democracy could triumph. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u6	Mrs Keramemos has the floor from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the National Representation is called upon to watch another communication show of the government, another trick with a dual objective: on the one hand, the disorientation of public opinion and, on the other, the collapsing of the government majority in the face of the painful measures that are coming. While the economy and society are suffocating from the burden of government indecisiveness, ideality and total administrative insufficiency, while the country is negotiating with the back on the wall by reliving the tragic memories of last summer, while the crisis in refugee is taking uncontrolled proportions, the government continues to perform on tactical and communal terrain. As it has done repeatedly in the past, the government is aiming at short-term and opportune micro-political benefits, while the country's perspective is at stake in the long term. In the meantime, therefore, all of this calls on us to investigate the old loans, the content, the amount and the terms of the loans, how the credit rating of the borrowers and the collateral given for these loans has been assessed. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, no objections. We're in agreement! But I fear that you do not have any interest in the substance of the matter at all, you do not have any interest in the framework of the loan itself. You are only interested in creating impressions, only the communication show and even under conditions similar to a people's court. And I can explain with three very specific examples. First example: if you really are interested in the substance, then, ladies and gentlemen of the government, why have you not included in your splendid proposal for a discussion and drafting of proposals to shield the lending system, to establish security guarantees and doubles for a rational and transparent system for lending parties and mass media? There is no hint within your text in search of solutions for the present and the future. Secondly, if you really are interested in the substance, why have you not brought a single provision to the vote in the fourteen months that you are government to legislate a better, more rational and more transparent system for the lending of parties and mass media? And third specific example: if you really care about the substance, ladies and gentlemen of the government, why have you been late for more than half a year to set up the Committee of Parliament for the control of the financial interests of the parties? Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the government, more than half a year just to set up the committee! But above all, why so far, fourteen months after you took over power, have you not complied with the law? And what do I mean? Why haven't you posted on a special website the financial statements of all parties, their revenue, their loans, their expenses, as required by No.4304/2014? Not a single post! So much was your concern, ladies and gentlemen, about the transparency and control of the parties' economics? These are three examples, among many other things, which I could invoke if I had sufficient time, three examples which in practice prove that you are not concerned with the substance of this subject at all. Because I imagine you will be encouraged to say "Why did you do to improve the current framework?", I will answer or rather remind you that the New Democracy Government took the initiative and established new more stringent regulations on the control of the parties' finances. The New Democracy has therefore made substantial contributions to the establishment of guarantees of increased transparency and accountability. And I will mention some of the main amendments made by No.4304/2014. First and foremost, this law of New Democracy put an end to the main source of the problems. Prohibited party loan guaranteeing future state funding. It was a practice that, as you all know, followed all parties up until then. Secondly, it has reduced the regular financing of parties from one thousand to the ordinary government revenues to half a thousand dollars on the net revenues of the state account. Thirdly, it stated that all parties' revenues necessarily result in up to three bank accounts held in Greek banks, and provided that all costs had to be deducted from those accounts and demonstrated by evidence, invoices, bank cheques, transfers and any other appropriate instrument. Fourthly, it provided that, for each private fund to parties up to EUR 1,500, a proof of recovery is issued, and each amount of more than EUR 1500 is only necessarily financed through a bank account. Fifthly, it upgraded and strengthened Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control with more powers. All the above, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government has done so. The President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, proceeded. Firstly, it has made public all the information on the economic situation of the party, which you have so far not done. Secondly, it has established and implemented a strict repayment programme for the party's loans. If I'm not mistaken for the repayment of your loans, you've said a word. Thirdly, he pledged to publish on the Internet every three months all the party's costs. And, fourthly, we launched a public campaign to collect funds from the citizens. All in conditions of complete transparency. I do not know, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you have done one of the above to settle your home. I am going through the media, as you propose that the lending of the media be investigated. With you and this. All in the light, to borrow the expression of your rhetoric. But, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, here we are faced with the unparalleled bilingualism of the government. Because it is courageous to talk about supposedly combating media interaction, when you yourself are trying to manipulate it. When you remove provocative and constitutional essential responsibilities from the National Broadcasting Council, undermining its institutional role, when members of your Government do not tolerate and threaten those who are criticising, when you allegedly oppose the mediatoral establishment that fights you, while at the same time you appear to seek his favor in parallel with secret meetings with their dominant representatives. All in the light, then. It is only that this inducement concerns you. Nor do we miss you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that your initiative to set up a committee of inquiry coincides with your systematic effort to limit the pluralism and independence of the press and SMEs. It is a project that you have been zealously implementing since the beginning of your administration, because you very simply do not like the control you exercise in your power. So we state directly: Yes, in control. But we will not allow this committee of inquiry to become another tool for exerting pressure and political manipulation of instruments for your service. Despite this communication show, the New Democracy is responsible and supports the government's proposal to set up a committee of inquiry to discuss the lending of parties and media openly and honestly. And, of course, in order to discuss this issue as a whole, not selective. To discuss loans from all the media, loans from all the parties, including your wonderful loan, which you received on paper when you were just a party of 4%. So we support your proposal. But why do you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, deny the New Democracy's proposal to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate the causes of capital restrictions and bank holidays, the reasons for which a third memorandum was signed and to recapitalise the banks on the worst possible terms? Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are due to answer the Greek citizens. Replies to the economy, while forecasts were talking about 2.5% growth, returned to the recession. For the budget, back from the primary surpluses in the primary deficits. For investments that have been cancelled. For outstanding debts, which increased by 76% from the end of 2014. For the loss of seventeen thousand jobs in the private sector only in July 2015 due to the imposition of capital controls. For the departure of tens of thousands of Greek businesses abroad. To say this simply and to understand what sizes we are talking about, I would ask you to have your attention: Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you propose an examination committee for the EUR 300 million that has been given over the years to the parties, and we answer you "thankfully", but refuse an examination of the 80 billion euros that you charged to Greek debt and Greek citizens in just six months of governance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u8	Say, lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen of the government, transparency cannot be a card. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I understand. It's causing a turbulence. Transparency, therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the government, cannot be a sound card. We say yes to transparency, yes to everything: to all the 300 million loans from the parties, but also to the 80 billion that you charged to the Greek debt. What do you think? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Ilias Cassidyris has the floor from Golden Dawn for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Of course, the parties that received sea loans, like the pimps of the large intermittent channels, must be smashed and crushed. But not with committees of inquiry that are in the form of a communication show and whose sole purpose is to cover up the crimes of the current SYRIZA-ANEL conflict. Because, at the moment that this committee of inquiry is being announced, the sole purpose of this committee is to cover the misery of Idome, the occupation of the country by hordes of illegal immigrants, the occupation of the country by representatives of loan-grants. At the same time as you say that you will be conducting examinations to investigate the felony, made by pimps of public life or by the representatives of the parties, who have dragged us over the past decades - I think that is evidence of felony, for which the prosecutors and the guilty should already have intervened - and at the same time the police department of Idon becomes blunt from illegal immigrants, Egnatia Street in the Law of Ioannina, and the people who have taken over the country. At the border of Greece with Skopje - to finally learn in this Chamber to say "Skopje", "FYROM", or "Nothing else", which is abusive to Greek history - there is no armed Greek presence. There are only Pakistani and Afghans, and on the other hand there are Skopje and Skopje security forces. That is why you are announcing this committee, which, of course, we will have to say too much, we will have to open too many dossiers. I remember very well that it was October 2013 when with the competitors - Members Christos Papapas and Panagiotis Eliopoulos we went to Marios Ice and filed press reports on 110 euros, a small percentage is that from the black funds of PASOK, discovered by special auditors, sworn accountants, who had certainly become swimming pools and villas of PASOK executives. This message report is still locked in a drawer of the Ice Arrow's Attorney's office and - what a coincidence! - The next day, after we filed this lawsuit, hoodmen invaded our homes and arrested us. The Golden Dawn, then, has a lot to say about the crimes that have become overtime by both parties and the pimps of the information. I am using this terminology, which is an institutional, politically correct terminology, which Kostas Karamanlis had said. He had, of course, told Bajractaris when they were eating cuts, not in the House. Of course, no government has done anything to solve this problem. So SYRIZA with the ANELs today, when there is a new catastrophe of Greek citizens with the new insurance policy, with the new tax, with the equilibrium of any Greek who produces in this country, you want to do an examination to show the channels, which a minister called you bothanas, copying the correct phrase of the Golden Dawn. But he omitted to say that in this thorn you have been rolling all day. All day the representatives of SYRIZA have been ranched on all the channels of interplay. I also have document here from a report by the National Broadcasting Council with the percentages of the parties' presence in the news releases: SYRIZA has 42% presence in the botanicals. Within this pod you roll daily, on the emissions of Tremmy and Chima, you have a first position and New Democracy follows with 23%. The third party is screwing it. Golden Dawn never show it. These are the official details of the PSE. PASOK has 7.2%, the river 6.4%, which are nonexistent parties in society, is nowhere. The ANELs 4.7% and 4.2% the JRC and lastly the Golden Dawn with 3%. And it would be 1% if there were not a small television station, the "MAKEDONIA TV", which had complied with the provisions of the law. If you want, let's see how much it projectes the Golden Dawn all the intertwined system of Bobola and Alfouz. I read: "SKAI" 1% view of Golden Dawn, "MEGA" 1.1% view of Golden Dawn, "ALPHA" 1.5%. This is the complexion, which only Golden Dawn can hit, because Golden Dawn is the only party that fights in this unorthodox and miserable way. And that's because it's the only force that can hit, put the knife on the bone and dissolve those who've run across Greece, they've taken hundreds of millions of euros out of public funds, while the Greek people are literally falling. I submit for the record the official figures from the National Broadcasting Council. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Kasidiaris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You could do something in just one day, within a few hours to vote for some laws by the House and end the intertwined system, the laws that you announced. I had asked the Minister against corruption here about the infamous amendment that acquitted the bankers and the parties on the maritime loans of the parties and committed - as Tsipras said beforehand - to abolish this disgrace. But you're not abolishing it! You do not abolish the Samara amendment that acquits thieves public thieves, you do not abolish the law on the liability of Venizelos ministers, which acquits the whole political system that time-consuming Greece. You do not abolish the notorious parliamentary immunity, which, of course, the Golden Dawn with its presence in the House has effectively abolished, because since the day we entered here in 2012, we are the absolute champions of immunity lifts. You've been kicking us out with all these stranded persecutions, thinking that this is how you're gonna hit the nationalist movement. But you've done absolutely nothing! Speaking of sea-loving parties, all of this was given on the basis of the famous state funding that all parties of the anti-constitutional arch, except Golden Dawn. It is an honour that you voted for this anti-constitutional law and that we do not receive a half-euro from public funds, while our people are literally bleeding. And if some people say that for about a semester Golden Dawn had received state funding, then we did the "crime" - we ruined the soup, if you like - and this money didn't put it in our pocket - as happened with PASOK, where there is the black hole of hundreds of millions of millions and the rest - we didn't get swimming pools and villas for our executives but we got meat, potatoes and macaroni for the Greek people. Even for that, though, you made a law. You have baptized the masses of social solidarity of the People's League and banned them. And today they share with the NGOs millions of dollars to accumulate illegal immigrants and at the same time it is illegal what the Golden Dawn did, spending - on the basis of your own data - state funding! You could, instead of conducting examinations, resolve this issue in one day: abolish the improperness of the party's state funding. I have put this issue back in parliamentary scrutiny, and we have said that this is how the parties are going to go on the day and the economic operators and the bankers who gave them the sea loans go to prison. I then received the following answer from the Minister responsible, Mr Kurubli, that we cannot abolish the impossibility, because that is how we will hit workers, a few hundred - he says - citizens. You did not think of the hundreds of thousands of citizens, of the private sector workers, who PASOK, New Democracy, SYRIZA and ANEL with the Memorandum Policy condemned tolerance. You thought about where state funding goes to the parties. This money, these millions don't go to the workers. The absolute majority of this money goes to lame. You gave the blackmailers, the Maurices and all those who didn't even know them, eighteen thousand euros - it says - in the month, in some nonexistent newspapers. Imagine how many have they got the intertwined "chottocanna" of Bobola, Alfouzos, all those who fight the People's Association - Golden Dawn every day. We have reached the point that there is no third party - as I said before - in the briefing. The only chance to refer to the Golden Dawn is either to make a mess of a committee within the House or to make incidents within the episodes is to be a Golden Dawn MP, to put him in a red circle and say: 'Here'. That is the only way the voice of the country's third political power is now heard. Such is the horror of this system - as I said - the first track table is the representatives of the SYRIZA, and of course - years now - of the New Democracy. And because SYRIZA talks about parties loans, as has been mentioned, SYRIZA has taken a loan and may now have very high state funding, now that it has reached high rates, but these rates are already falling, evaporated with your policy and will soon be back to the old 4% SYRIZA. Let's see how he pays off his loans. Of course, all this, according to some prosecutors, is considered legitimate, to close with this report and explain how - the only way - the problem can be solved. According to a prosecutor from the Court of Appeal, therefore, the black money that SIEMENS put through Tsukatos in the PASOK funds in pappers, in black bags, is legal sponsorship. Of course, it is an outrageous circuit of the New Democracy, which continues to exist and act today on SYRIZA. The same prosecutor named Costarellos, by the way, who says that Christoforikos is clean and can come to Greece for free, tells me and other Members of the Golden Dawn that we cannot participate in public events of our party. Where has the elected Member been heard around the world again not to be able to speak at public events of his party? So this carcinoma needs to be ripped out of the hearts of Greek society. Problems are solved. The bonds that are not solved, according to your rhetoric, are cut, according to the positions of the People's Association - Golden Dawn. There's no need for exams! Who owe hundreds of millions of euros, which were illegally received, such as the Bobolas who charged 1,1 million euros? Watch out. The TV station "MEGA" costs 1,1 million euros each episode of the "The Smurfs" series to get a loan. That's how Bobolas got a loan. So we don't get to how the parties got a loan. A prosecutor enters one day into all these operations that are a man of economic corruption, captures the responsible ones and go to prison. No exam or communication show! Political clearance within one day! These can only be done by the People's Association - Golden Dawn, which we say, we do not hide: All those who have actually stolen money from the Greek State to operate their illegal operations, the interconnected channels of black system propaganda, we will shut them down, we will throw them "black" in one day. Anyone who does not have to pay what he owes the Greek citizen will fall "black" and go to prison. However, these are only capable of doing so by the political body of the People's Association - Golden Dawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, eighteen students and students and four educational attendants from the Elementary School of Xinos Florinas and Saint Panteleimon Florinas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to announce to the House that on Wednesday, April 20, 2016, 10: 00, a debate will take place on the day-to-day order at the initiative of the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, at the level of party leaders, on the security of citizens, in accordance with Rule 143(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I have the honour to announce the topical and urgent debate on Monday 18 April 2016, which has been written and whose debate will take place on 17: 00' next Monday, because it will also include questions that have not been asked today. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 779/12-2016 of the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the Regional Road of Thessaloniki. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Georgios Styriou, Member of Parliament, Mr George Styriou, Minister of Finance, regarding the equalisation of excise duty on diesel fuel and unleaded petrol. 3. The question by No. 757/6-2016 of the MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Charas Kefalidou to the Minister of Finance, on the Taxation of Intangible Leases 2015 and the abstention of lawyers from their duties. 4. The question asked by MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Constantine Steerios to the Minister of Health about the need for the prevention, treatment and support of Volos cancers. 5. The 781/12-2016 topical question by MP 2 Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, on the World Scandal of Offshore and tax evasion. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No. 773/11-4-2016 of the New Democracy MP Christos Boukokorous to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the exception of the Municipality of Volos from the Programme of Social Benefits of Work. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 785/12-4-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Sakis Bardalis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, about the re-entry of extracted land by PPC S.A. 3. The question asked by MP II of the New Democracy, Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the uncontrolled action by NGOs with a suspected role and funding in the reception areas of refugees and illegal immigrants. 4. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Culture and Sports on the need to re-establish the single price of the book. 5. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, Minister for Environment and Energy, about the biomass power plants in the Municipality of Gortyna Heraklion, Crete. 6. The Question No 708/28-32016 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Health on the problems of the General Hospital of Lamia. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Mr Konstantinos Katsafandou, Member of the Commission with number 707/28-3-2016, on the role of NGOs in tackling the refugee and immigration problem 8. The Question No 663/15-32016 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Finance concerning the participation of Greek businessman in the increase of the capital of Greek television channel and the delay of loans granted to PEGASOS SA. 9. The question asked by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism about non-performing loans. 10. The question by number 764/8-4-2016 of the F' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republic of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the control of the conditions for the movement of refugees and migrants from Chios to Lero. 11. The current question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiotta to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the Centre for the Open Structure of Hospitable Hershua. 12. The question under number 726/1-4-2016 by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction regarding the removal of Greek citizenship from the ex-SRF. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The question asked by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction about the lack of strategic planning to deal with the refugee problem, delays in disbursement of European funds and the failure to implement the law granting Greek citizenship. The topical and urgent debate on Friday 15 April 2016, which was incorporated into the Topical and urgent Questionnaire on Monday 18 April 2016, is as follows: A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The current question of the Greek Parliamentary I of Thessaloniki Mr Stavros Kalafatis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, concerning the Organization of Ports of Thessaloniki (OLTH). 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Ministers for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Infrastructure, Transport and Networks on the creation of a dam in Kyparissi of Heraklion Prefecture in the "Kaki Skala". 3. The question under number 777/11-4-2016 by MP B' Athens of the Union of Centres Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the risk of losing grants from the European Union financial institutions to help refugees. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 771/11-4-2016, a topical question by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the "energy future" of the Florina Prefecture. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning measures to ensure free and quality food and housing for students studying in the annexes of the University of Patras in Agrini. 3. The Question No 775/11-4-2016 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks on ‘Public Money Laundering, due to the arbitration of public projects co-financed by Community funds’. 4. The question by number 740/44-2016 of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy, Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the uncontrolled action of NGOs in the country. 5. The current question by MP I Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy regarding the establishment of the Academy of a Port Body. 6. The question of the financing of the 2007-2013 NSRF projects, under No 741/4-2016, was raised by the Greek Prime Minister, Mr Annas-Michel Asmakopoulou, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the financing of the 2007-2013 NSRF projects in danger. Colleagues, MP Anastasios Megalamoustakas seeks permission from abroad from 19 April to 21 April 2016 in order to go to Brussels, at his personal expense, for a lecture. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u13	The House approved the requested permission. Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos has the floor on behalf of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we all have a sense of cruel reality and that everyone does not have their own virtual reality, because unfortunately, the SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence with its turbulences, its tactics, has been involved in a great adventure and has entangled Greece in a great deadlock. The effects of this deadlock are evident at every level: Finance, with the measures of 7.2 billion for the period 2015-2016 that the majority voted for and with additional measures of 5.4 billion or 2% of GDP, which the government itself proposed and supposedly negotiated hard with the institutions. Development, with the return to recession, the climate of political uncertainty and economic instability, and in particular the impossibility of creating a development framework and attracting investment and job creation. At social level, unfortunately, deadlocks are reflected in the climate of catastrophe, pessimism and uncertainty in each social group. We see it every day as people we have to do with reality. It is, however, reflected in all the measurements of the opinion. If we add to these deadlocks the stalemate of caging between the northern borders of the country and Turkey of fifty-three thousand souls, refugees and migrants, which we are unable to manage, then we have almost all the picture of caging and the deadlocks of the country that goes from evil to worse. The government, in its agonizing attempt to keep one of its social ruins, now that the election and post-election lies are self-proof and given that it is difficult to manage its abnormal landing in the harsh reality, attempts to diversions and party conflict exercises, with the so-called battle against corruption and interlocutory. We've heard it before. The Prime Minister, in defence of allegations of raw, unpredictable and unprecedented interference in justice, asked for a agenda for debate on corruption and conflict, threatening with revelations, addresses and names. The treasure's carbon! Mr. Tsipras, once again bailed against the interlocutory, with his well-known rhetoric, presented the thirteen sins of the interlocutory system, as was presented by the Black Bible of Mrs. Constantopoulos and the "AYI" repeatedly at the end of 2014 and by election. Mr Tsipras, however, forgot that he is a Prime Minister for a year and a half now and how, if he wanted, the majority he has with his partner, the other war of interlocutory and offshore, Mr Kammenos, would have abolished these legislative arrangements. In fact, it caused him from this step by Mrs. Gennimata to do it with a law and an article, as she said would abolish the memorials. What is left of this debate, however, ladies and gentlemen? The Prime Minister's commitment was left to set up a committee of inquiry on the loans of parties and the media. Consequently, the proposal we are debating today concerns the part of a political plan to deal with government deadlocks and to bring the majority together, in view of difficult votes, which will involve new taxes and pension cuts. I mean, dense class exercises. To discuss the loans from parties and the media now that we will hand over the loans from the highly indebted households to foreign speculative funds to the 'curtains', as Mr Tsipras said. We have, at the very first moment, expressed a clear position, said that we will vote on this proposal, because we have nothing to hide or fear anything. But your hypocrisy and we will reveal it and fight your despicability. You say, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, in your proposal: let the people know the truth. However, the number of questions and answers in the parliamentary control procedure and relevant publications is well known, the amount of loans, both from parties and from the media. If you think that it is not accurate what your Ministers give in answering the questions of majority Members - some, in fact, do so in a very persistent way, Mr. Dimitris Kammenos referred to the questions of a colleague - then call on your ministers to be precise in their answers. I imagine that you have read this amount of questions and answers, here are parliamentary documents, which show the scale of the problem, the amount of loans and the procedures for granting them. After all, Mr Tsipras also used these figures on the agenda for the debate here in the House and told us the figures. You are also saying in your proposal: 'Let responsibility be given'. Yes, sir. Is Mr. Papagelopoulos here? He's gone. Mr Papagelopoulos answered to the House in a timely question by a colleague that this case is in justice. You don't trust justice? You don't trust Mr. Papagelopoulos? We have every reason to have no confidence in him, with all these interventions he makes in judiciary. Why don't you have no trust? With regard to the finances of PASOK, where you and your extreme right-wing partner are focusing, I would like to repeat this once again: We, PASOK, have called and commissioned six major accountants operating in our country, namely GRANT THORNTON, “KPMG”, “ERNST & YOUNG”, “DELOITTE”, “PRICEWATERHOUSE”, “SOL S.A.”, the investigation of our finances and this finding is in justice since May 2014, Mr. We are the only party that has done so and it is clear why you are hiding it both in your rhetoric and in the proposal for the committee of inquiry. Also, why don't you tell the truth and connect parties' over-borrowing to the memorials, while you know that this was the time of amnesia when the bell was ringing and many were ignoring it and others were hiding or escaping? At this time of amnesia, fat cows, you know that apart from deficits and public debt, it grew up, private debt increased. About a hundred billion is pulling the IMF off in its last report. It's the debt of business and households. Of course, we do not underestimate the debts of the media and parties and for symbolic reasons. But the debate is hypocritical, taking into account the size of the parties' obligations vis-à-vis the private debt. Obviously, we are not going to defend those from the media who took maritime loans and 'here' cannons. I don't know if you're going to give them permission - he's on this list. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, why hide that whatever effort has been made to tackle the over-debt of the parties is our job, with Mr 323/2002? Because over-dancing came up because of the great confrontation in the waste, and we tried to put an end to it. Why do you not present the reality of reducing the State subsidy on our own initiatives, maintaining an image of waste and unpunished use of public money, when we limited state funding to 0.5; that is, 50 minutes per thousand state expenditure? Apologise for not voting for these, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA. Mrs Gerovas was the rapporteur of your party in the relevant debate in the House. "As he did not vote for the enlargement of Parliament's Audit Committee with judges. Won't SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, say that it has twice the rate of borrowing in the period that was a 4% party? And what kind of warranties did he give for that? Won't SYRIZA say, who accuses us of cheap lending that interest rates at ATE have been 9% since 2010? Won't Mr. Tsipras, who blamed us on the debate here that we're lending while no kid had access to the banking system, that his party, SYRIZA, was borrowed in 2014 and a half a million?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u15	From SYRIZA's balance sheet, Mr. Colleague, don't have any questions. Please, that's the balance sheet of SYRIZA. And what kind of guarantees did you give, as your rapporteur said, when no one had access to the banking system?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u16	Are you paying for your loans?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u17	I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u18	You're a liar! Is your loans up to date?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u19	Please be quiet. Finish, Mr. Koutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, how will SYRIZA explain that we in the European elections have ruined 210,000 and SYRIZA has broken 1,300 000? He won't tell us how much he's ruined in the last election, when we've only ruined the state grant money, and where did he get it? To finish, I want to tell you that we have reached our conclusions and made our self-criticism. We housed PASOK, we reduced our costs by 95%, and today we cover operating costs, mainly with the remaining amount of state funding and Members' contributions by 15%. Can SYRIZA give the example of a housewife party? You are blaming us, ladies and gentlemen, because we have not predicted changing political correlations and changing the objective data and loans have now been made. Do you, the hurdle, predict what the evolution will be in the previous years, which you have easily signed in this text, and you of the majority, and the others who come from the genocide ranks and sign against the other ones in this proposal? And I am not talking now about your extreme right-wing partners, because at this time, they must look at Mr Kammens' apologies for his family's activities in economic heavens. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, I will end with this: this vicious circle of inquiries, which began in 1989, leads the political system down every time. The only indictments that were brought to justice were those that we did in 2010 for Batopedi and Chohazopoulou. If you wanted to address the issues of the pathogenesis of the political system, for which you are responsible, because you have contributed with your psalmology, you had to have another political proposal for major institutional changes that the country needs. And it's not just that you've not drawn any conclusions from the majority. Not even the New Democracy has drawn any conclusions. Because it brings us here a proposal for a committee of inquiry, it is right that it raises the question of the third memorandum and the sale of banks, but it also refuses to contribute to the one and only examinations proposed by the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR, since December, which says'research for everyone and everything' - to show the only truth - 'from 2000 onwards' with numbers, with experts, to close this old page of our history and to go to a new page that the country needs. We are making this political proposal. It is a bold proposal, it also concerns our responsibilities, and we invite you to sign it if you want the place to go forward. Otherwise, the rest are power games, from the evil, better thoughts, and in this game we will neither participate nor alibi, because we want another type of progressive governance, another plan for the country, with reforms and changes. This battle is being fought by the Central Left in our country. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u21	I appeal again to keep time. Because otherwise, we will not get to the moment you all want, and you will be nervous. Mr Karathanasopoulos has the floor from the Group of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Once again, we are going to discuss a proposal for parties to set up a committee of inquiry. But, in this particular case, there is absolutely no originality, because this proposal comes at a time when the processes are intensified, the negotiations through various drawbacks and backwards, to close the first assessment of the third memorandum. This is an assessment and agreement, which will mark not the relief of the people's strata, but rather the escalation of the anti-grass attack, with a view to further progressing the fiscal adjustment but, above all, to shielding the competitiveness and profitability of the monopolistic groups. The measures are well-known: New public income tax raid, demolition of the social character of public security, management of red loans to the various funds, so as to open the way for auctioning, even first home, in the context of the resolution of the financial system, speed up the process of privatisation and the transfer of public property, and at the same time, new incentives to big capital, through the new development law, and also unblocking the new financial packages to the capitalists through the ESDP or the Juncker programme. It would be good here to remember the experience - which is rich - of the previous examinations. First of all, both the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, and the current government of SYRIZA - ANEL - and I would remind you that this is the second time, because it had brought forward a proposal, at the time it was negotiating with the Troika, to set up an examination for the memorials, the first and second, which has remained unclaimed, has interrupted its functions - when they are pressed and particularly on the eves, which are going to impose harsh anti-grasss measures, attempt to throw the ball on the platform, change the agenda of political developments, disorientate the people, forming a ground, in order to escalate an unresolved confrontation between the parties of the government and anti-population on issues relating to existing scandals, corruption, bringing proposals for committees of inquiry. But what else does the experience of so many committees of inquiry set up over the last few decades show? This experience shows that all these committees of inquiry are nothing but 'coal the treasure'. Never shone the truth, never became what your favourite expression was, "to reach the knife in the bone", but, on the contrary, to sepsis, corruption and complication remain, they have not been dealt with. Of course, we say that it cannot be dealt with, because it is precisely intrinsic to the rote of the capitalist system itself, which will be gigantic, as long as this system has now exceeded its historical limits. Today, what does the government want through the setting-up of the committee of inquiry? It seeks precisely to obscure the nature of the debate it has with its partners, with the quartet, to draw the attention of the people from the very tough measures which are being negotiated and which it intends to implement in the context of the implementation of the third memorandum. Therefore, instead of discussing these specific issues, it is trying to change the issues of the debate. But, also behind the substance, it just wants the essence not to be the same, that it is precisely the policy of the parties managing the capitalist system and the interests of the bourgeoisie, which shape inter-companies and interconnectors with the monopolistic groups and large capital. It attempts to obscure the fact that daily, over time, every concept of objective media information is being violated - private and also state - because they are serving the interests of capital, reproducing these interests and both the state media, and private individuals systematically slander any logic that facilitates the radicalisation of wider popular powers. At the same time, however, it also attempts to obscure the role of banks. These are banks that have been supported and supported with a fatal billion, which has been loaded on the backs of the Greek people, and which will pay them through taxation, so that there can be the reconstruction of the banks. At the same time, it will obscure all the red loans that the International Monetary Fund has recently estimated at ECU 100 billion. With various measurements - analyses of these 60 billion are red business loans, 12 billion owed to eight hundred very large monopolies and the remaining 30, six thousand large companies. In other words, 40 billion is due to large business groups. And these are red loans. Why not also consider these 40 billion, which were given to these very large monopolistic groups, whether legality was respected and bank procedures for granting these loans, and simply in the name of impressions, are we limiting the question of examining the financing of parties and the financing of the media? It should also be noted that, through this proposal and in the explanatory statement tabled by the government, it is trying to reverse reality itself. Look at the attack - the escalation of the attack - which has been taken over in recent years, but also the previous period, before the memorials, the working class and the Greek people, it is not the capitalist system, it is not the capitalist crisis. It is the inappropriate functioning of the financial system and the interlocutory relationships, which it had with the parties of the bourgeoisie that managed the system on behalf of the bourgeoisie, New Democracy and the PASOK. It is the relationships that the financial system has with the media. That is what the Greek people pay for. While, on the contrary, reality is completely different. The Greek people have been under a fierce attack on all their working, insurance and social rights all these years, in the name of the armouring of the capitalist system, so that they can cope more quickly with the capitalist crisis and, at the same time, shield the competitiveness and profitability of the monopolistic groups, which means, in practical terms, that the sacrifices made today by the Greek people and the working class have no end, precisely because the chasing of competitiveness and profitability has no expiry date for the capitalist system and the monopolies. From this point of view, we, as a JRC, are aware of the evolution of things, although we have no illusions about the results that this committee of inquiry will have, we say very clearly: firstly, that there is absolutely no problem in having this audit proposed in the committee of inquiry. In fact, we would also say that this control, as we have said before, is to be seen in the sea-shoots which have been given to the large business groups and also in the scandalous funding that has been given over the last few decades, to state and European funding for the monopolistic groups. Where'd that money go? What happened to that money? We say clearly that, as a JRC, we have nothing to hide, we have nothing to fear from this debate. After all, the Communist Party of Greece is the only party that any small loan was forced to take from the banks to meet its operational needs has covered it in its multiplier value, from posters in the first degree. No other party has done so, and that is why we have absolutely nothing. That is why, although we have no illusions about where things will go, we will vote in favour of setting up a committee of inquiry, although we believe that the audit could be carried out without a committee of inquiry being set up. Through this process, the JRC will try to highlight the positions of the Party and, above all, to highlight the relations of the parties, which manage the system with capital, which are the source and the quintusy of interactivity and corruption, and, at the same time, the parasitic, exploitation of the capitalist system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, since they have previously participated in the educational programme of the "Corporate of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Elementary School of New Psychikos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-one students and students and four of their teachers from the Jerusalemian University of Ehnos Xanthi. The House welcomes them. Mr Constantine Barriots has the floor now by the Potamian Parliamentary Group. I would remind you, Mr Barriotta, that you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that April, for this government, is a month of examination. These days last year we were discussing again the famous committee of inquiry into the memorandum. And that is not the only ratio of this April and last year, since it has nothing to do with both spring and sketching, and with the government's communication needs this process or better I would say with the government's communication problems. You see, the country's living the same spring stress as last year. Negotiation seems to sink and go to hell. The Prime Minister is looking again for a political solution - he was reading "saving" - from God's machine, running in the courtyards of Holland, Schultz and Juncker. The whispers for Grexit are suddenly beginning to strengthen and this sense of déjà vu, the work that we have seen, is a nightmare, as last year's experience says that unlike the Aunty Passion - days that are, approaching Easter - where the Resurrection is followed by a crucifix with this government, national passions do not have a resurrection. We're going from Anna to Kaifa, from the Cross to a circle and back to the Cross. It seems that the government's political deadlocks are recycled in an annual cycle, reaching again the same deadlocks that we had faced before. No one, unfortunately, seems to learn anything from his mistakes in this government. The fundamental difference in the context, of course, is the Civic Opposition, which has chosen as its strategy the so-called "electionary gymnastics", which tracks and clamps party armies, suppresses dialogue both within and around parties and kills reform concerns when they are small, before they become adult. So today the New Democracy offers its old evil, itself of 2004, 2007 and 2012 as a valuable partner in a tago, which the government desperately wants to dance, the tango of acidification and bipolarism. They need two, not one. The New Democracy seems, unfortunately, to be willing for this process of acidification. So we're back here. The legislative procedure in the last five, six weeks, pope, has been suspended and we are playing the very same role that we played last year as a parliament. We are playing the role of the communication arena: a spectacle for bread, a past for solutions for the future. So after a meaningless cockfight of Heads, which we followed 15 days ago, on the occasion of Mr Papagelopoulos and Mrs Thanos' achievements and the subject of the debate anything but the deepest problems of justice - I would remind you that, apart from the speech by Stavros Theodorakis, no one has even entered into the shallows of the country's greatest possible problem, which is the operation or, if you prefer, the non-function of justice - we are here again in communication diversion exercises. Why now talk about evaluations, negotiations and refugee? Tomorrow's a easier solution. The question is what the government wants to prove by setting up this examination, which is very close to the loans of parties and the media and nothing else. Does he want to prove that the post-population parties, the New Democracy and the PASOK, received misused loans from the Agricultural Bank, for example? Mr Papagelopoulos himself admitted in this Session of Parliament that the matter was filed under the law of the New Democracy, under the indifferent look of the present government. What do you mean? Is there even a Greek or is there a café on the ground where the question 'if there's abusive use of money by the parties' takes place other than a great 'yes'? Is there a question? Is there a problem? The party leaders themselves and speakers admitted that there was a problem. They made their self-criticism. They suggested solutions. No one's denying it. So what do we want to do? What's the target? Find the bankers who gave the sea loans and punish them? We say 'yes' to find them. We shall also vote on the committee for that reason. Justice is worthy of it. But politically, what is the problem? We must therefore find them both for the parties and for the media entrepreneurs and for the maritime loans of all enterprises, which are traded with the wider public sector. Unless they're just the big public suppliers, who have the media, who are interested in us. Others have to stay in the unavoidable. And why only the loans, ladies and gentlemen? Is there or is there no problem in managing money within and around the parties? Is there or is there no major problem with the transparency of party expenditure? Why do we only have to stay in the loans? A bill is the loans. Left-wing partners, what you have to prove from now on is not that the previous ones were corrupted. This is what the Greek people think, in excess of that, I would say. I'm sure of it. It's proven. What you have to try every day to prove is that you are not the same as the previous ones, that you do not exactly what the previous ones did in the same way, that you are not a version of the old establishment. It is for this reason that you have passed through the antimony and the program of Thessaloniki, across the street, with very characteristic ease, unregulated, giving the signal that you are the same and worst political ones with the previous ones and the fact that every day some machounia, which has perfume from the old ones, is revealed: Others are founding offshore in London. Another relieves himself of charges of a malicious nature with a bill of his own, which brings it to parliament and takes it back. Another appoints relatives and friends. And to stay in the last few days, on the press, another problem with the appointing lists, otherwise they leave CELPNO, Minister, and they arrive at Aristotle. That's new. And we leave an electronic track, because we don't get along with computers, and we double-cross. The main thing, however, is that the government adopts all policies and undermines the institutions in the same way as the previous ones. The government uses, by the same cynicism, the same tools as the previous ones. Who will take you seriously when it comes to the resolution of the political system, when the framework for the media you brought to the House and advertised in various ways, actually creates a new problem in the old position? Who will believe your intentions, when he learns about Himalayan cats, about the manipulation of newspapers and stations and when suddenly there are charges of dissident journalists in Greece in Greece? Because this was created by the decision of the ESDC last week: dissident journalists in a democratic country of Europe in 2016, who are persecuted for their opinion. That's unprecedented. The country's been burning and we've been playing the same game for a long time. Because it is clear that the debate today only has micro-party objectives and benefits. And kindergartens know in this country that the committees operate as fireworks and that the setting-up of committees of inquiry into remnants, from the 1980s to the present, are no longer fireworks. Does anyone think that the forgotten committee for the memorandum, which is still working, producing or demonstrating something? We've forgotten her. We voted for it and forgot it, along with another forty-seven in the last thirty years. Is there anyone today who believes that this committee will make something possible, in addition to the communication impact of the two days after the debate? Or do the Committee on Capital Controls demanded by the New Democracy in a sense of balance - which I do not understand, but in any case - make any sense of loans? There are two things that everyone knows about the subject of the debate today, that there is a huge problem with political money within the parties and that the Commission which we are discussing today has nothing to do with its solution. It is not, in any way, a solution. As was the case with the Chiefs of Justice Corps, the debate today is not about black political money. It's about anything but this. In fact, the government does not want any change. He wants to rule in the same way as the previous ones. The "yaladj"-committees fabrika is a long time ago. We already did. He's been degraded by the previous ones. Just join the dashboard. You're not doing anything else. Prove you're the same. If anyone wanted to make a difference, he would try to introduce transparency and control into the parties' finances, loans, finance, sponsors, coupons, revenues, costs at all. Not just in loans, in management, in everything. But SYRIZA doesn't want to. He only prefers to do what he did, three elections in six months with crumbs. He graduated all over Greece with that sarcastic "The hope comes", which greets us from various forgotten giant for free, free of charge. She prefers to shake her finger to the other side, actually doing the same, in the same way. We posted our costs on the internet. You can question them because you can find them. It's there and anyone who wants to see them. We haven't seen this from anyone. So let us do a reform. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. So let us all reform together. Let's innovate. Let us legislate on a platform such as Transmission, in which all the documents relating to the parties' finances should be posted - revenues, expenses, donors, etc. - and let's have a top suspect committee manage it. This is a reform. That could be a proposal. There are other years of work - they will then be mentioned - by the Greco Commission, by the people of the parties who are not all the same to any party and who are willing and trying to solve it. However, this does not corner the political opponent for as long as we need it. It twists all the crusts, and that's not desirable. In the meantime, "Greece travels", the poet says, and the crisis deepens and with it gathers anger and despair. It is an accident that most in here do not want to see how dangerous our own democracy and our institutions are is to continue this old, eternal, old-fashioned game on the same terms, even today on the verge of destruction or after the lip of destruction. In a country where the two of the five voters are abstaining from the electoral process, discrediting the institutions, in a country where the difference from the January elections in September did not make it, but the abstention of five hundred thousand voters, even compared to the old ones, the perpetuation of hypocrisy, Paleo-communism and corruption, inspires the inefficiency of our institutions and breaks down the value of our culture. It is an extremely dangerous process to continue the game. The populism and the political deadlock that is currently threatening the country, far more than the debt and the crisis. The country really needs a red line, one, only - and I am ending - real, but also rigid, not rubber, pink, like the ones we are accustomed to in the famous government negotiation. A red line behind which populism, corruption, all sorts of strife and hypocrisy of a bankrupt political model will remain. It needs a red line of a new principle, which, unfortunately, this government does not have a chance to carve it up, nor does it. I'm afraid redemption is still too far away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u25	Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor from the Centron Association. This concludes the first cycle of eight speakers and then we will continue with the rest. One Parliamentary spokesman will be able to speak by two. So organize. Mr. Loverdos has already asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u26	Good morning, everyone! Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago we were here again in the same position to discuss corruption and conflict. We saw the Prime Minister and the Chief of Officer's Representation holding newspapers in his hands and taking action against each other, for specific persons. Names of businessmen, political associates, behind-the-spots have been heard and he goes by saying. And while we were observing this spectacle between the two parties, we in the Central Association were shouting that the world is disoriented. If we were to participate in this fair that was set then, we would, in fact, accept that, for the economic and political situation in this country, it is all the fault of five - ten political and economic persons. In other words, there is nothing wrong with our good rulers. It is nothing to blame for the superfood and waste public we have built, it is not to blame that the seas of rumbles plunged into public revenues are not to blame for the pessimism of the few private enterprises left in the Greek market. As if there is still room for us to have 1,2 employees per pensioner as a country. As if there is nothing wrong with having 25% unemployment and the world's greatest deflation. And since we are talking about unemployment, we should add another four hundred and fifty families from the 'ELECTRONIC ATHENS' cannon, which is due to the capital controls, as you, the government, have brought in this country. What we are discussing today would have been an essential contribution to dealing with the pathogens of public life if it had been put on a different basis, that is, if you had focused on the real problem. According to the Government, the following is to be considered by a legislative body: First, the content and terms of these loan contracts. Secondly, the credit rating of borrowers in relation to the regulations of credit institutions. Thirdly, the amount of loans and the course of their service today. And fourthly, these guarantees and loans. In the golden period 2000 to 2011, the funds provided to the parties by banks and by the state budget were a total of EUR 655 million. So the figures that came to the public at the time from the relevant ministries were as follows - and I am tabling the practical sources for what I am going to say: The PASOK had received EUR 255 million, of which EUR 111 was a bank debt, also New Democracy EUR 255 million, of which 120 were a bank debt, 58 million of which were a bank debt of which 4,4 million were a bank debt - that is, you, ladies and gentlemen of the JRC. You enjoyed the goods of capitalism and the banking system - 44 million LAOS, 24 million were a bank debt of which 6 were a bank debt. From 2011 until now, therefore, and the state grant and bank lending continue, but clearly at a reduced rate, in relation to the past. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, gentlemen, as SYRIZA, you did not participate in this golden age because the current party formation was not there at that time. However, then there was the PASOK that received huge sums, which today is a large active part of the SYRIZA's executive and governmental mechanism. What, in the end, are you trying to offer with this debate, since your moral advantage has been made by wings? Is today a solution to our budgetary revenue? And prove charges against some people and go to jail for these five, ten people in the next five, ten years of court dispute. Until they're in jail, there'll be a new corrupt system that'll be re-engaged. With what you do for us, it is clear that you wish, even at the last minute, to play it a little more antisystemic. I would like to show one more thing here. I would remind you that a few months ago, your own Mrs Constantopoulos wanted to barely drag Mr Stournara to testify to the Public Debt Audit Committee, a parody committee, which became the subject of a satire worldwide. Then you targeted Mr Stournara and the bankers and disoriented the world from our economic and production nakedness. Now who's come to take turns for a new commission parade? Is that your job? Do you want to make audit committees or create legislative provisions and conditions so that there can be no case in which public money is dispersed? In a favoured country, with a serious government, it would be understood that such a debate in plenary is completely unrealistic. There are judicial authorities and formal procedures to be followed in the case of scandals. You want to turn the legislature into a journalistic body or a judicial authority. Here they chose you to apply solutions rather than to play with impressions. I'd like people to listen to another crook. In the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry you complained that the old parties were receiving loans, guaranteeing state-funded parties and considering lending as a scandal rather than a party financing itself. We and President Vassilis Leventis in the Centro Association have been shouting for decades that the funding of the parties must be abolished. They must stop the parties from taking money from the state budget and the state must provide only logistical infrastructure to the parties, whether for housing their offices or for hosting events and gatherings. In particular, local municipalities have infinite solutions that could be used by all parties, taking into account the staff provided by the state to the parties, the posterity, advisors and so on. So the funding could be completely unnecessary. So here you have the knife, you have the melon. Why don't you dismantle funding? Why do we not adopt a transparent system, such as, for example, America, which finances the party by depositing through a banking system, from the ordinary citizen to the last-named businessman? PASOK, SYRIZA and New Democracy have created a serious economic and social model based on deficits, continued lending and counterproductive over-consumption. Today, in 2016, we do not want unfaithful citizens anymore. We want people to be vigilant, understand the game on their backs. We know that some, even in our day, think as Kavafis writes, analyzing the thinking of a poor and damaged man. So he says this destroyed man will be directed to one of the three rulers. Amazing coincidence, indeed, if we think that Greece is primarily responsible for the three major parties. So this cabaphic poem ends up as follows and speaks the man who expects to appoint him: "I will nevertheless be wanted by one of the three, and it is my conscience that is quiet for the undeclared election. They're harming all three of Syria. But a ruined man, what's my fault? I'm asking the afflictor to get in the way. Let the mighty gods make sure to create a fourth good. I would gladly go to him." This fourth, good, ladies and gentlemen, and fellow citizens, you are following us, will be created by the citizens themselves. No god will bring us him. It won't be the result of luck or short-term. There are no demons and no secret designs that are being worked by sublethal international circles. Since Greek citizens choose consciously and with the sense of responsibility to increase the power of the purely political centre, then and only then will we see a substantial change in the political scene. Then and only then will we see a better perspective for our country, in a world of justice, freedom and humanity. We're in favor of control. Everything in the light, but it's a mockery to chase ghosts because there's no physics guilty right now. Control must be superstitious, in order to be of value, gentlemen. The government once again has thrown the ball at the platform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u27	Are you in favour of the proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u28	I said. I'm in favour, but conditional.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u29	The second cycle begins, the single list of speakers. First speaker is Mrs Theophevette from SYRIZA. Come on, Mrs. Theophevette. You have the floor for six minutes. I would ask you all to be consistent with your time again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u30	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, at the request of the two groups of Parliament, SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, we are debating today whether or not a committee of inquiry should be set up on loans granted by the banks to the media and political parties. Despite the deterioration in the role of this committee that we see today, we think it is a matter of greater public interest to consider relations with the bank and the media. In our country these routes have been met many times in recent years. In the years of the economic crisis, when thousands of businesses were closing down and in which banks not only denied the slightest loan but became much more aggressive in demanding non-performing loans at the same time, hundreds of millions of euros were allocated to groups of companies. So the following reasonable questions are raised: How were these loans easily granted without bureaucratic hardship, without even identifying irregularities in bank credit policy and credit risk and with what guarantees? Has the programmes been upgraded or improved? Is this the case if these loans were used for the purpose that they were granted? Were bank adverts directed to borrowed instruments? Are these loans served? What steps have the banks taken to ensure that they are not served? Has the public been damaged in any way? Approximately EUR 500 million damage caused a total of EUR 500 million for the public scandal of the Post Office, in which loans were provided that were never served, and the necessary guarantees had not been guaranteed. This case has already taken the path of justice. It is therefore necessary to monitor, accountable and accountable for all this. This is the one side in the triangle of interlocutory. On the other hand, it concerns the banks' gift loans to parties, which, as guarantees for their approval, announced the upcoming state funding. How were these loans granted? Any evidence requested? In the years when the citizens had legal disputes for debt, the parliament made graceful decisions, on the one hand, to defend criminal responsibilities for the granting of loans to the major parties, which eventually came to owe hundreds of millions, and on the other 40% incompatibility with party grants. These loans were granted by banks controlled by the State and finally by the Greek State, i.e. the Greek citizen. Where does the total account of loans to parties, the well-known sea loans? Until when should immunity be transferred to the banking system and society, which is called upon once again to bear the heavy burden of the scandals of the old political establishment? What procedures were given to these hundreds of millions? With what guarantees and who's gonna pay for it after all? We need to measure the costs for our country and pay tribute to where they have to be attributed. That is what the principle of accountability is for the Greek citizens, who have finally lifted the financial burdens and the interlocutory. This also requires the basic principles of transparency and sound funding for parties. A prerequisite for tackling the crisis that is burdening our country, not only economic but also worthwhile, is the restoration of the links of the state's confidence with the Greek citizens. This requires exploring and demonstrating the links and relationships between the interlocutory, measuring its costs and delivering responsibilities where they need to be attributed, in order to finally clarify the political field. And this promise of justice can and must be implemented. The present government wants to put an end to this blunt and sinful period. It wants to restore the truth, the social consensus, the sense of equality and the conviction that those who have damaged Greek citizens will be controlled. And this message must be sent by the Greek Parliament today with the guarantee of impartiality and with legal procedures. We therefore call for the committee of inquiry to be set up and we look forward with great interest to the development of the investigation and its findings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mrs Theophevette, and respect for the time. Mr Vorides has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr Loverdos. Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this request contains a number of things. Let me make it clear that we are of course only voting in favour of the request. The whole reasoning is rejected by us, we do not discuss it, we only agree on the demands. But I read the demands: What does the parliamentary majority want? Check the content of credit agreements for political parties and media companies, the amount, conditions, the purpose of lending or refinancing past loans, the assessment of the creditworthiness of borrowers in relation to credit institutions' credit institutions' regulations, safeguarders - if any - or other guarantees are available, the current amount of such loans, the current course of service and, finally, in the event of loans not being served, if any complaints of credit contracts and other possible enforcement legal actions. This is what you say must be the subject of our committee of inquiry. First of all, I have a simple question to the Government: why didn't he send a request to the Bank of Greece with this nice request for fourteen months, so that the Bank of Greece could say everything here? It is a supervisory authority of banking institutions, is responsible for the control of borrowings, is responsible for complying with the credit rules, has responsibility for controlling all relevant data. Why has there not been such a request?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u33	A question was asked and the Bank did not reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u34	Answer: Why are you not really interested in this, because you don't really care! Because if you really did care, we would not have a committee of inquiry, the Minister of Finance would ask a simple question to the one supervised by the person called Bank of Greece. And the debate would have ended, and you would have all the documents, and we would have had results. We're entering a process of examination, because you want to make a political festival. That's the reality! Because you have no real interest. And now we go to see and what are the issues we have to discuss. You addressed it to us to put us in a difficult position, to us that it was our President who initiated the public procedure for controlling our party's finances.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u35	Are you paying for the loans, Mr. Voridis? Let go of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u36	Is the money coming back?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u37	Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u38	Now let's go to what we're paying and what we don't pay. You're bringing us, I say, into trouble! Watch something. This is where a question comes in. In order not to hurry, now I protect you, - kindly I do - you have placed yourself in favour of financing the parties from the state budget. The funding of the parties in 2009 was 26 million and along with the elections went to 33 million euros. With our political decisions, our government, do you know how much funding is in 2015? Of the 26 million is 1.8 million, 90% reduction. And 1.8 million plus elections, 3.6 million was the funding of the parties since the 33 million in 2009 with our political decisions, not yours. So I come to say: Who were the interest paid in 2009? Three and a half million. And what are the interest payments in 2015? Say a number. Eighteen million. At the time the funding was 26, the interest was 3.5 and when the funding became 1.8, the interest is 18. And you're talking about whether there's a financial problem? Obviously, there's an economic problem. Do we have anything smarter to hear in the Chamber than that? Because if that's what we're investigating, we'll finish it. Then we don't have to do the examination. You are now saying that the question of this - supposedly - an order in question which has been absolved by their parties and their responsibilities and has been filed and, following an investigation by the prosecutor, the case has been filed. I'll read the layout, because you know, we're used to lying, but at some point you're in front of, you have to read and what's going on, you can't say anything. I therefore read Article 78 of Law No 4146/2013: 'It does not constitute infidelity' - it says the article - 'for the President, the members of the Board and the members of the banks, the conclusion of loans of all kinds' - now listen to whom - 'with legal persons of a non-profit-making nature, the wider public sector, as defined by law'. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr. Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] Question to my colleagues: Does the law in the wider public sector have political parties? Are they legal persons belonging to the wider public sector? That is the first question. Let's go to second. Here's what's going on. When is this persecution not being persecuted for infidelity? When they have, they provide credit. But under the following conditions, it is not possible to prosecute: 'These are decisions of the institutionalised approval committees or bodies of each bank'. So there is a legitimate decision by the bank's administrative bodies. But listen to the best: “Second, the relevant regulatory acts of the Bank of Greece were respected when they were granted.” What does this arrangement say? You want me to tell you? Nothing. Do you know why he doesn't say anything? Because if the regulatory acts have been done and implemented, how can there be a fraud of infidelity?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u39	But they weren't observed, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u40	If they weren't kept - listen to where we're going - that's what the Bank of Greece will tell us. But come on, that the Bank of Greece does not say what is a supervisory authority. Who's gonna say it? Are you going to say that? You can't say it yourself. That is what the Bank of Greece has to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u41	Musakite would say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Musakitis, I don't know what he'd say. I know if you're bringing me to justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u43	That's why you cut it...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u44	Please don't interfere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Triantafylides, your dearest last sport, not personally...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Voridis, pick up the...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u47	I'm packing it, Mr. President. In your friendly sport - not personally here, this fine team you are - which is the sorrow of judges and praise for others, that is, the distinction of judges to those who cheer us up and serve our political project and those who do not delight us and serve our political plan, I will not play. What am I saying? I say, the competent prosecutor - if you want to take it to justice - ruled and filed. You don't like it because he's obviously in the target category too. Anyone who doesn't cheer you up in justice is bad. He is also a member of the interlocutor, the interlocutor of journalists, canals, parties, politicians, judiciaries, all those who are not SYRIZA! That's not how democracy works. You will not perpetuate democracy. You will not salute the independence of justice, you will not perpetuate the independence of the functioning of the media, you will not perpetuate the functioning of the democratic culture. We won't let you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much. I very much urge the parliamentary representative of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR, Mr Loverdos, to take the floor. I repeat, as has been said at the outset, that the parliamentary representatives will have the floor for eight minutes or eight plus four minutes - and the time of their denunciation - that is, 12 minutes or may go to thirteen minutes. I say it directly, and I say it in the first place, so that we can get to know each other. The economy of the debate, as we saw yesterday at the Conference of Presidents, can be comfortable at 6 p.m. where, after everyone has spoken - and the Presidents and others - we can close down. Please help us all. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are opposed to a government which trades its image as supposedly grounded, of course, and benefiting the country and the Greek people. And while every month that passes, the account for the citizen and for the country is increasing, and while on all matters as long as the environment passes, according to the statements by government figures themselves, we have a permanent communist outlet for the proud negotiation. Ladies and gentlemen, if, apart from SYRIZA and ANEL Members, even one citizen - and one! - believes this is a proud negotiation, the message this citizen sends to politicians is that this is a career for whoever is lying and mocking and whoever tells the truth has no luck in this place. It is an invitation to make the whole political system an institution of demagogues and liars. And we must not let that happen. The dividing line that must cross all of us and within our parties are the friends and opponents of populism. Greece does not come out of the memos. Compared to others who entered memorials and came out, it is humiliated because populism dominates the country. And let us come to our point so that it does not appear that the general references, which concern the citizen of his daily life, are made out of the evil ones and to avoid the difficult so-called issues that SYRIZA and ANEL have put us in today's proposal. We, ladies and gentlemen, have said so. We update our loans, we pay them, to say otherwise, by depositing 60% of state funding. We do everything we can to be able to talk about both the parties' finances and the honesty of policy. We, the Members of the Democratic Integration - why we have to personalise this whole issue, which concerns the mobiles of the country and of honesty - I personally, but also all the Members of Parliament, are giving our monthly subscription to EUR 850 to EUR 900. And if anyone counted - I am 16 years of MP, others are less and more - what has each of us spent on party activities, would not exceed our subscriptions for three months. Therefore, we have a person, because both as a party and as natural persons, politicians, we have done our duty and have not shown a lack of respect for the Greek people's money. Besides, we are the only ones to ask of the five major accounting companies, the so-called "Big Five", audit in 2012. The findings of the audit have been submitted to justice on our own. And in our 2015 conference, the party's responsible director set out the issues of our finances to answer the majority colleague, who makes us the prosecutor, to tell us, "Why didn't you bring them to us?" Let's get them for him to see! We talked about it at our conference with details. It's a public estate. Who else has done this to raise their fingers, their philanthropist ring, which I do not know if they have the room to raise it, since in accordance with their criteria and thinking they have shaped their own panel of the defendants within 15 months of managing power? Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should stop talking like this. I think we should stop, after all these decades' accumulated experience, talking like this. Does that mean we have to stop working on political corruption? No way. I have here the 2011 conclusion concerning Akis and the submarines. We were a majority then. If you look at the conclusions, the parties were almost unanimous. We who had the majority, took the responsibility of referring him, which was "dried" - no wonder - a few days before the elections on 6 May 2012. In 2011, the decision of the pre-inquiry - as we call it - was the committee of the House and it was us. Does that mean, however, that every politician accused is also a crook? I would like to use an example that does not concern us, which concerns another political force, to strengthen my word and not to think wickedly. Because that is what you are doing with these arguments you have also become a majority. I read - I will tell you how I felt - with emotion what Karamanlis said at the funeral of Giannis Angelos. And because I have taken a stand on the subject of justice rather than on my political identity, I am in a position to ask myself: What happened to this scandal? It's been eight years. Show me a convicted court judgment and not the finger-to-eye affidavits on the channels. Judicial decision. This is no time to talk about this. We'll talk, though. But are you not telling me how the government's majority in this matter have it in mind? There are their ministers who say both their MPs and their ministers and their officials on the channels that say nothing. Have you made it clear what is concerned with you and what you're talking about? Unity of your powers is unity for governance, for power. Political unity is not. You're almost nowhere. You are undergoing arguments for a proud negotiation, which I have already commented on. But, ladies and gentlemen, I went to Stepma to recall that - not in this Chamber, a little below, in the old Parliament, all of which were - in 1932 were called Eleftherios Venizelos a thief - "the thief to go to jail" - the People's Party. That was the split then. Now it's a statue out here, and his course is taught in schools, in our children. "Fake, thief, go to jail!" Go to Chania, the "Venizelos Foundation", to show you the few elements that exist for that period. You should also go to the Minutes of the House - George Romeos has made them - to read about you, the philosophers, yourself a few decades ago and to see how, at that time, the populists and philosophers, demagogues and liars were thriving. But is that coming out? I'm telling you, now you have your own restaurant, the defendants' shop. Is that coming out? It's not coming out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u50	Mr Colleague, you have the extra time we talked about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u51	I'll take my dentistry, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u52	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u53	And the people are aware of it. That's why you don't have any more in common. A few months ago, rocks flew and grow. Now the rocks you fly are boomerang and take your head off. And because you involved them, you said 'cuts and media' implying - what clever! - that one hand felt the other, me, ladies and gentlemen, the "greater" economists of the act, Lapavitsa, Varoufakis, Tsakalotos, Stathakis, from the channels I taught them. I am honoured, Mr Stathakis, to have you here, when five minutes later I was crucified as the Minister of Education, Labour and Health. I was crucified every morning and every night. I'm honored, Mr. Varoufakis! That's your proposal for the economy! Did we have to say you were media stalls? Would that be political? We didn't say so. Why do you say that? What are you implying? Why do you involve these two issues? Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we were the political party which, as soon as the House was elected for this period, in September, called for the continuation of the previous committee of inquiry, set up to strike us for the first and second memorandums, not for what they led there and for the economy in Varoufakis. That committee of inquiry worked out. She became a boomerang, of course, for her organizers. We asked for her work to continue. You said no. The Members of the Democratic Independence asked, after an interview made by Mrs Gennimata, to be a committee of inquiry on all issues between 2002 and the present day. Why am I saying that? Because here there are people unrelated, who have a Minister's status, and they say, "we have been in crisis because they borrowed the PASOK or the New Democracy or the SYRIZA", "because there was a loan on this channel", "why they became the Olympic Games". Do you have a picture of the size class? How much are all the public works, all the equipment and the Olympic Games? Not even 48 billion euros. How many, ladies and gentlemen, are there, I see on the benches, and the ministers of the social state, the costs of a decade for our insurance system? It's 200 billion. And how much was the cost of not voting on all of you in insurance that did not take place in 2001 and of prosecuting the government of Mr. Simitis? We counted it around 70 billion. This is a huge part of the public debt. If we discuss all this from the euro and then the Members who smile because they are irrelevant, they will understand the size classes and we will be able to reach agreement on what the country needs. But if we go with party reasonables, as we do today, nothing will come up again. And although we disagree and articulate the arguments of disagreement here in as objective a way as I can, we will vote for your proposal today. But why did you refuse our proposals? And so from curiosity, the proposal made by the New Democracy for a committee of inquiry into capital control, will you accept it? Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, rapporteur of the majority, will you accept it? There have been proposals. Ours is the most global one, because it will allow the National Delegation to acquire a sense of order. It will be a school for all, and for the three hundred, to know what we say and, in any case, to separate populism and demagogy and lies from truth. We have made this proposal and we believe it. The majority does not accept it. She is today making her own proposal, individually, by the wicked one. But there was another one, that of the New Democracy. Do you accept it? Will you vote for it? Most parties today say yes. What do you think? You haven't warned us why you're playing. You're playing with the institutions. You are enemies of truth. You are the unfaithful persecutors of truth. And the last stage of a prick before the final decline, no matter how phenomenal what I'm going to say, is the dissolution of the institutions. When it doesn't cost anything, a minister says what he wants. The Minister of Finance says that he disagrees with the decision of the European Union at the European Council on refugee - immigration. He says so, he's signing texts. And she is the Minister of Government who disagrees with her choice on the major issue. And it stays! It's no big deal!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Loverdo, please complete. Your time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u55	I'm closing, Mr. President. When everything, honourable Members, is inclined to be altered and this alteration concerns the institutions, I inform you, based on the comparative experience that comes from everywhere, that when a country arrives there, the end has already arrived, the disaster is close. Let's get together before it's too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Nassos Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. And yet again I have said that one has a sense of vanity when one speaks to the Greek Parliament, because everyone knows everything and even better than you and, of course, nobody listens. I shall therefore try to address myself, Mr President, to the average citizen as far as Parliament's channel is concerned. To that end I need a figure, a figure, and that is 1,1 billion. Are 1,1 billion stars? Is 1,1 billion pebbles, bruises? It's 1,1 billion euros. And I want us to stand on this number, please. The July agreement was known from the outset to bring measures amounting to EUR 5.4 billion over three years, i.e. by the end of 2018. Since the crisis started in 2010, previous governments have taken more than 62 billion euros and have been talking about success story, and now, with the 5.4 billion euros, we are being destroyed. In any case, there are no additional measures. Let people put up the bill at EUR 6.5 billion. The cost of the measures still to be implemented is EUR 2.6 billion, as provided for in the agreement, and these measures will be implemented within 30 months, i.e. EUR 1.1 billion annually. EUR 1,1 billion is going to hurt, this will create vulgar titles, this will raise protests, as I hear. One billion euros, almost as much as the loan of Greek information companies. On 24 October last, the following was heard in this Chamber, which was not called into question, even though it did not claim the basis for accuracy: some data published are, as it turns out, coming closer to reality. And she says that the debts of the information enterprises exceed EUR 1 billion. It's over 1 billion euros. That is why I mentioned the EUR 1.1 billion of the painful measures. The amount of the measures hurts. The other one, the level of media lending, doesn't it hurt? You know, it might not hurt. There are forms of cancer that are not manifested with pain. The same voice asked: 'Should one say, why is EUR 1.1 billion a problem for media lending? Many companies are borrowing and repaying their debts in the process." Agreed, but the problem here is that most media companies have a negative net position, they have lost their capital after a series of injurious uses. So, we're talking - hang on - about the media credits and unscrupulous media, not the parties! Loan and anguish! Doesn't that hurt? Where did these loan and unscrupulous cuts come from? By some kind of indifferent wall or by the Greek taxpayer? Mr. Yiannis Drasakis described the phenomenon with glaucoma. "We have vampire businesses," he said, that is, businesses not only in the information field, but, more generally, in the economy, which live if they are borrowed. What's the result? Banks are no longer lenders to these businesses. The banks are the real capital owners, the owners of these businesses. So let's not hide behind our finger. Once everything that happened or was called in Greece was not published abroad. Today, however, because of the crisis, it is international. On December 17, 2012, in a special investigation under the heading "The Triangle of Power in Greece", the agency "REUTERS" registered the following statement - I will give it to the Minutes and to the English - Mr. The phenomenon has evolved in a totally ill situation. The purpose of SMEs..." - adds - "...is mainly to carry out specific designs of their owners". This is more delicious, because it is stolen: a telegram of this American Embassy, which was intercepted in 2006 by WikiLeaks, says: ‘How can all these media operate in profit? They don't work on profit. They are financially subsidised by their owners, who, despite receiving profits, use these SMEs mainly to exert political and economic influence.’ [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I think it is my duty today to pay tribute to my colleagues who have fought for other kinds of broadcasting. On 21-5-2015 George Annandristakis, learning that the Prosecutor of Galen Bris has in his hands all the bank details of the loans granted to companies, wrote: "It was high time that he opened the question of media loans to find out how and why bankrupt banks, which were saved from state recapitalisation, provided unpaid loans to businesses as well as bankrupt, loss-making and over loaned. In addition, the Commission considers that, in the absence of State aid, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty (now Article 107(3)(c) TFEU) and Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty (now Article 107(3)(c) TFEU) and Article 107(3)(c) TFEU. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to make it clear, perhaps by displaying an unauthorized boldness, three incidents. Incident first: Elections, speeches and congresses. Candidate Member says to the owner of a provincial station: “All of you have got them out. Take me out too." He answers: "He gave 30,000 euros". It says: 'I do not have 30,000 euros, I have 15,000 euros'. He says, 'We cannot, my dear, we are not awkward'. A second incident, which must not be repeated. This thing also has roots deep. We need to bring this up. Calling from an occasional publisher office in a dairy business office: “Tell your boss to give advertising, otherwise in his yogurts cockroaches will be found.” Third incident: "They threw me down two publishers..." - reveals Gerasimos Arsenis - "...because I didn't give them the five hundred school libraries. One, in fact, said who would be my successor." The sources are also mentioned in the Minutes, some of them recorded. Ladies and gentlemen, we can agree on the facts, if not on the points of view. Our questions are your questions. Stefanos Manos writes in "KATHMERINI": "In the court of Munich one after the other...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u58	Just shorten up, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u59	Give me a minute, Mr. President,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u60	I've already given you a minute and a half already. You're welcome. You have the ability of you and the experience to shorten. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u61	I don't have it because I don't belong to the constitutional engineers. Well, I want to talk to Mr Stefano Mano, because at a time when he could say things, he said it. So he writes in "Kathimerini": "In the Munich court, one of the executives of "SIEMENS" say that 2% of the business's turnover in Greece is used for oil. They don't need any new evidence. How many times..." - writes Mr Manos - "...I did not ask the Prime Minister..." - "...and the Minister of Economy to abolish the black money of canals and publishers, to abolish their own 2%, of their own turnover, which is at least twice as much as the turnover of "SIEMENS" in Greece." And he goes on to say: "For the black-black fund of publishers and canalarchs, both the New Democracy and the PASOK refuse to do anything." I'm not saying anything. Whatever I read, I say. In the press, it's obvious. New Democracy, I read this week in a magazine, owes 210 million euros and PASOK almost half, actually 111 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u62	Please, you have to close up, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u63	What frightens me from that old article by Stephen Manos, is the answer he gives to the question: "What was the big debate about political money then? " "In my opinion," he says - "only one, to tell public opinion again, to create the illusion that something can be done." Well, now something has to be done and it will be done, if the gentlemen help, in particular, the Civic Opposition. I shall conclude immediately, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The gentlemen and the ladies will help. I'll just fill you in. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u65	The gentlemen and the ladies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Rabbit has the floor from the Golden Dawn party and immediately after Mr. Red. Here, Mr. Rabbit, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, I would like to begin by saying that the debate would have been very proper and necessary if it were not a paradox debate that is taking place. And the debate is a travesty because, in fact, none of you can accuse anyone else of the previous ones because he took it and because the money has disappeared. Because you have just taken the money together and disappeared from the pockets of the Greek people and from the funds of the Greek state. I repeat that the debate has been a travesty, because you have been a government for 15 months and you could have punished some people, as we could have seen there being consequences and people being persecuted for what has been done. If you really had the will, you would not need all these words now on committees of inquiry, nor would we be sitting here to talk. You really don't have the will. It's just in all these conditions that today prevail in our country with the invasion of thousands of illegal immigrants and the tragic economic situation in our country you want to change the conversation and go somewhere different. And as there was no real value in the debate you had a few days ago about the judicial scandals and the manipulation of Greek justice - because there will be no result, although there is, of course, manipulation in Greek justice - the same will happen today with the scandal of the disappearance of millions of euros from the Greek state funds. And how is it possible for you in SYRIZA - ANEL to put off the previous ones - which you are right to do and should have sent them away - when in simple cases when applications for waivers of immunity of MPs - who are accused of economic scandals and if they were going to court, would we see whether the charges are true or false and whether they should be condemned - you yourself, the group that you have set up forty years in the Greek Parliament and no one speaks of anyone, do you vote not on the waivers of immunity of these MPs? So you, who do not have the courage, strength, strength and honesty to send one of them to court to prove whether he is innocent or guilty, will you send to courts the entire previous political system with the hundreds of millions of euros that have disappeared? But are there still so naive citizens out there who believe you? It's really tragic to talk about that. It's not going to happen. You are going to have a debate today, you are supposed to vote on this committee of inquiry, and here we are, in a short time, everything will come'milk', no one will be prosecuted and life will continue. I repeat again that you, too, will vaguely blame each other when the conditions impose it and we need to get away from the issues that concern the Greek people. There are ways of finding this money and getting the prosecutors into the parties' funds and looking for them, if they have become villas, swimming pools, luxurious cars and luxurious living all these years for majestics and government, who lived at the expense of the Greek people. And that's a common secret. And if it turns out that there are such things, it is not only their condemnation. Of course, I repeat that this will never be the case with the governments that exist. I wish there was something else, because then we would be the first to applaud it from whatever government. But it's not going to happen. They should be looking for and finding out who the parties' managers and all those money that disappeared over the years in PASOK, New Democracy and all the other parties that were here, because of those who were little - very all of them have stolen. They should also tell us who the managers were and return their properties, take their villas, their cars, as well as the dozens of properties they have and return them to the Greek state. Only in this way could justice be attributed, not to the words you're doing here, firing fire to each other. To ask another question: Is it very much wonder how it is possible that almost all of us, the overwhelming majority of those who have spent the last few years in our country have been highly successful - to see that they have thirty-five real estates of one another, forty-seven other, sixty-three euros, in Greece, mainly abroad and many offshore companies, which are still not being persecuted - so that all of them are so successful in their personal lives and careers, but as regards their duties as ministers and servants of the Greek people have failed to do well? And how is it possible - and we repeat again - that these for their own benefit have hundreds of millions of euros, but that our home country owes hundreds of millions of euros? There are two versions here, whether their behaviour is betrayal, and that is why they have been extinct, and that is why they are so successful in their personal life either they are completely incompetent and have been found to make the ministers and the rulers at the expense of the Greek people. So we have reached the point today, after forty years of government's robbery, Greece and the Greek citizen are obliged to pay all this with his blood and the sacrifices he makes, because within the Greek Parliament there is no financial sacrifice from anyone. Money's on and off. Today, once again, we are tabling a proposal as Golden Dawn: to immediately cut the subsidies made by the parties. Immediately! Golden Dawn has taken nothing and has proved how a political institution with faith, with principles, with ideas to fight without taking money from nowhere, instead giving money from our legacy. So let the party subsidies be cut, to see all these thieves of the anti-constitutional arch in how many days they will have broken down and how many days the MPs, who allegedly support what has happened here, will disappear and look elsewhere to make a career and not as politicians, because they have seen it as a career. That's their job, they're politicians. It's their job. So let's cut it. I'm stressing it again. And let the Greek citizen be persecuted at last at some point. I would like to finish, because time has not been much, Mr President, but I would like to keep it as much as I can, to mention two important issues that are nowadays, which are dreadful of what is happening in our daily lives. We will only mention that in Greece, which cannot control anything, in a Greek protectorate of Europeans, Americans and anything else, a Turkish ship last night, this morning entered the territorial waters, at the border of our country - because there are also maritime borders, contrary to what you believe - and when our port has gone to tell them to do what they had to do, that is to say, to get out and return to their own territorial waters, they have threatened, turning the weapons to the Greek ports. We haven't heard anything. Nothing has been done by the Greek state. I want to tell you another disgrace we saw yesterday. We have seen that there are strains of NGOs, which we all know are playing, especially at these critical times for our homeland, being arrested or being recruited rather, because there was no arrest, and thus going for the eyes of the world - like these classic inductions - to the Police Directorate in the Ioannina region of twenty-seven people. And instead of these people being tried, convicted and imprisoned for what they did, their solidarity was in the city hall of Ioannina, they held the mayor hostage and they succeeded in this state "bambling" that exists, to liberate these punks, these para-stated, these dark circles of NGOs that have appeared. They managed to free themselves and get up to their homes. This is the Greek state, which has been there all these years...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u68	Please, get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u69	I shall conclude, Mr President. ...and this is the Greek state, which you continue to sustain and keep on it at these shameful levels that we see. That's it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u70	The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, has the floor. Mr. Red, your time is eight plus four minutes. I'm putting you directly into dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the House is called upon to vote on a committee of inquiry into the loans received by political parties and media companies. The time period is particularly critical, the negotiation is ongoing, with the aim of completing the evaluation, which must be done at the earliest. We spent a difficult summer, a difficult deal, and Greece must look forward and go ahead. As the Prime Minister said, the program of exiting the crisis is four years long. Unfortunately, opposition has a requirement within a year that the government should take the country out of the memorials and bring prosperity. This government has promised the Greek people truth and will have it. I must refer to an issue of topicality, the bankruptcy of ELECTRONIC. Ladies and gentlemen, a cheap party exploitation of an employer's bankruptcy cheaply. We saw the Opposition accusing the government of being responsible for the fact that four hundred workers are on the way and responsible for the bankruptcy of the employer. Is the Opposition aware that this company, according to the figures published, was involved in a virtual and fake invoice scandal with a fine of EUR 75 million, which was closed to 1.5? Is the Opposition aware that the bankruptcy procedure has been under way for too long? What's he saying now? It's the government that went bankrupt. I come to this debate on lending political parties and media companies. Ladies and gentlemen, the unreliability shown by the people in the political system is not accidental. The anger shown by Greek and Greek women in the political system is not accidental. No chance. For what? We've got an answer from Officer Opposition. They say yes to the setting-up of the Committee of Inquiry. Bravo! However, this attitude is hypocritical and does not correspond to the reality. They say yes to hear and see that the people are 'yes' to look for who, if they took it, where did they get the money if the political parties were entitled to loans' because, unfortunately, there has been no equivalency in recent years. Bad lies. Do thousands of borrowers in our country have the same treatment as they have and have parties in particular or media companies? Are the legitimate representatives of the parties going to the courts, as is the taxpayer of Greece? Are the legitimate representatives of the media companies going to the courts to ask the Presidents of the courts to postpone? Of course not. Mr Vorides said: 'We agree with the request, but not with the reasoning'. Smart manoeuvre. They agree with the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry, but not on the grounds. It is, however, forgotten that there can be no request without justification. To the Greek people know that the reasoning is as follows: Firstly, if these parties and companies were entitled to the loans, under what conditions were the loans granted? Was there any warranties or other? These are the questions to be answered by the opposition parties and not the hypocritical attitude that 'we agree on the request for a committee of inquiry, but disagree on the cause'. But the cause is the whole point. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been two events in the last five years which have taken place in the political system. You saw in our neighbours Skopje, the amnesty of fifty-eight politicians what consequences it had. Do you want it to be the same here? Mr. Vorides mentioned n.4146/2013 and said it was not about political parties. Are the political parties legal entities governed by public and private law? Even if it wasn't for the political parties, then why was a law that amputates directors, bank presidents? Then why was a law passed that gives thanks to those who gave loans? When a state comes and passes a law according to which it commemorates any criminal responsibilities to presidents of banks for loans they have granted, what does that mean? "What makes you young-youth on the tiles." What does it mean? Why is this law adopted? Is it to favour those who had taken loans without the legal way? This must be known and the Greek people will know. Every rascal on his bench. We must be equitable with the Greek citizens. We're not much more than that. Does the Greek people also know that in an amendment tabled by the then parliamentary representatives of the New Democracy and PASOK and accepted directly by the Minister, is there the improperness of the parties' aid? Let farmers know this, who are shouting about the inconsistency of subsidies. Let pensioners, wage earners, tax payers and insurance funds know. Let the thousands of merchants and free professionals to whom the account has been committed and must pay their taxes and debts to the insurance funds to receive any amount that PASOK and New Democracy have established the incompatibility of state aid with funding. Ladies and gentlemen, I also said at the beginning of my speech that it is not by chance that the decency, the unreliability that people have shown in the political system in recent years, is not accidental. We must finally, except for looking and being clean. The Greek people have this demand and this demand was expressed on 20 September, that they want politicians clean and parties clean. He doesn't want any intertwined ones. The committee of inquiry, which will be decided this afternoon, must respond to the specific facts and demands which all parties must draw up and not say 'is in principle, but we disagree with the questions that will be asked'. They must provide all the parties with the loan contracts they have received, the conditions. You know, ladies and gentlemen, since 2010 there has been a ministerial decision, which has been incorporated into a relevant Community directive and which is now Union law, the principle of responsible lending, according to which credit institutions had to check, make leaves and feathers for each candidate borrower. At a time when thousands of our fellow citizens could not receive a loan - especially the first period when the crisis came, in 2010, in 2011, in 2012 - political parties were given loans at the same time without basic safeguards as the media companies. That's what the Greek people want to know. Which bank took the lead in the loan? The Agricultural Bank of Greece. Yes, sir! The Agricultural Bank of Greece, which was sold out in 2012 and perhaps for this reason a committee of inquiry should be carried out. At the same time as the Agricultural Bank of Greece threatens farmers to confiscate their subsidies and fields, political parties received loans, loan and unscrupulously. I am very curious to see in the committee of inquiry whether the debts of all loans were and are aware. I'm very curious to know if the loan had been granted to the Bank. Most likely it hadn't happened. That is why the law that gave amnesty to the bankers was also introduced. We gave loans without any guarantee. So we need to learn from the committee of inquiry of the money. We have to tell the Greek people, but the most important thing is that they bring back the stolen and the immediate - as the Prime Minister said - abrogation of Article 76 of the n. 4146/2013, according to which bank presidents have been amputated for loans granted. So back the stolen ones! Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u72	Thank you. Mr Gerosios Balauras has the floor, and then Mr Javarras. Mr Dannelis will then speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin my speech with a word and a wonderful one. Finally! Finally, the stockings of interlocutory and corruption are now being dismantled or, rather, I would say it's almost the government's initiative to bring the matter up for a committee of inquiry. The New Democracy today with its speakers has told us that it is a disorientation. Is it really a disorientation for the Greek people to know what brought him into this miserable life, the ordinary Greek citizen who does not have to pay, the ordinary Greek citizen who was being taken to court and who is still being taken for a small loan? In fact, the rapporteur of the New Democracy has asked why we are not bringing a law on loans. But there are laws. That's what we're talking about. There are laws from the outside, from the European Union, from the Kingdom. If you don't know them, why don't you ask? You remind me of your disorientation, and indeed with your President, who, for the WikiLeaks, accused the government of leaking and not of the substance of the Tomsen - Velkoulescu discussion, where he said again blackmail, cynical, barbarians as Meternich: "We will bring Greece into a credit event as it took place in June 2015." So the laws exist. You violated them brutally, violated them unequivocally. You have been together with PASOK, with PASOK's governance over the years, a huge party to your political friends, in business interests. They got loans. How many businesses have they booked with loans taken by entrepreneurs? They took them out abroad and left the corpses and looters business to get the machines and everything else they found. Who's going to look for these loans? Loans were also granted to cooperatives. Another party. When the simple farmer hears the word "cooperative" runs away. I, because I am from a rural area, never say this word, unfortunately, while the word cooperative is an ideological issue that has smashed many people in old times, especially in Europe. I avoid saying that, and I say 'cooperative arrangements'. You ruined it, you corrupted it, you ruined it. In fact, all this happened during the time they were arrested to sell chestnuts either in Thessaloniki, to the Tower, or to Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u74	Nowadays this is happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u75	You made the laws, that's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u76	The Audit Committee?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u77	Why don't you change them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u78	Don't shout.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u79	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u80	Just before we took over the government, there were auctions of seventy square feet in the most deprived people, people of pensioners, etc. What shows what the previous speakers of SYRIZA and ANEL have described? That the banks in a deeply bankrupt country, at the same time as the country was bankrupt, provided unpaid loans to both parties and media and created a huge passive, called for by the recapitalisations to be paid by the Greek people. Specific media, which are intended to defend freedom of press, have independent information and unbundled journalism, became a liar of banking oligarchy and bank allies. You're Ferrets, I mean. The parties, tell us, why did you take these loans? What guarantees did you take? You violated all the laws: both Basel II and Basel III and Basel I. You have violated everything in order to obtain loans with quasi-monetary guarantees that you will always have the percentage you have had at some point. Especially PASOK. This was, of course, because the parties were likewise involved in the media so that you could stabilise the political system and perpetuate it as you would like. Just stuff. What did the Commission say about the parties' loans? That loans were given and the people pay them. Almunia said that. Balaur doesn't say so, no SYRIZA MEP says so, the government says so. The Vice-President of the New Democracy, in fact, Mr Georgiadis - it is interesting to recall this - said shortly before your own party elections that the debt of the New Democracy cannot be served and will ask for it to be deleted. Like the toys the IMF does and what it asks. So he's gonna ask for a deletion? Is PASOK going to ask for a deletion or change the APM and you and PASOK and become like the new Panion, with a different APM, so you won't pay? They're gonna pay for it, and how? They're questions that come in. Answer me. You'll be summoned after me to speak. Answer me. We got all these loans. They run or they don't run and we'll pay them off. Answer me. Mr President, I would like a couple of minutes more time. We're talking about private media too. There is talk here in the House to get licenses with auctions, with offers. I ask: were private channels only private as far as the stamp is concerned, but were they public in terms of the complexion and the loans they received? Let me remind you that in the Bank of Greece's conclusion it is noted that many of the media financing was uncertain. In fact, the Bank of Greece says that the main reason for their financial downturn was the advertising reduction. And I ask: Now the Pope and the government come in and put in a law that says that four licences should be granted to the channels. Why? For these reasons, the main reason is that the market cannot stand. The Bank of Greece itself comes and says - well before the draft law submitted by the Government for the media - that the advertising market does not come out for the channels and that is why they have the big openings, etc. Finally, I fully agree with the colleague who spoke to SYRIZA and said that eleven media enterprises owe from 808,000 000 - nobody knows - up to 1.1 billion. Who will pay for this, ladies and gentlemen? Who's gonna pay for it? The poor guy you call today that he's taxing? Of course he's taxed! After finding a state that you dismantled! You have always thrown away everything that was productive - agriculture, industry, everything - at a party unrelenting!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Comrade, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u82	I shall conclude, Mr President. Just a phrase. We have been struck by the lot of cleansing, sheracle, in fact, by the cleansing of the manure of Augustus, which you have created. We are no longer judged for our intentions. We will, however, be judged on the results of our ability to bring this work, this hectolitre, to accomplish it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u83	Thank you. Mr. Javarra, don't get up. Although I had announced to you after Mr Balaura - and you would be a duel from Elia - the Secretary-General of the JRC will now speak and then you will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u84	Sure! We're giving up our position!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u85	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u86	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, He's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u87	Yeah, you're right, but you're giving up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, the assessment that the Prime Minister said was the most difficult, because it was the government's choice to put forward what was difficult, to come to an end, has all of it. It has insurance much worse than it was published months ago, it has tax for increasing taxation and new indirect taxes for the people, when the government exempts industrialists from excise duty on gas, even after one euro from workers. It has privatisations, it has red loans, the resolution of the financial system, new financial packages. I mean, he has new prerogatives for big capital. We will not end, as you are laughing at, ladies and gentlemen of the government, not only because experience says that every negotiation, every evaluation, is accompanied by tough measures added to the previous ones - that is, the catastrophe has no end - but also because, regardless of whether the targets are taken, if the reforms are implemented, the Greek economy is not in a glass cut and the signs are not good for the progress of the economy internationally and in the European Union. So how do we get this over with? Your staff say that in 2015, global capitalist growth slowed down, while in 2016 it started with dangerous messages. The threat of new synchronised shocks in the global economy throws even more oil into the fire against competition from large groups and their respective states and international allies. Even on the question of debt restructuring, you are now saying, openly, what only the JRC said at the outset, that it will be accompanied by a new tougher package, i.e. a Memorandum 4, that is. In this context we must all see the controversy, opposition and competition that has come to the surface on the grounds of history with the intercepts of the discussions of the officials of the International Monetary Fund. As far as the government is concerned, it is clearly making use of these talks to bring back the well-known and tested extortion to the people that there are worse in order to speed up the evaluation of the new package of measures and to apportion Memorandum 3, which has been signed with the European Union. What is interesting is that while the SYRIZA - ANEL Government had invested in the role of the International Monetary Fund, the United States of America, it now appears to be closer to the positions of the European Union, especially Germany. This rotation of good, evil roles cannot hide, of course, that both the International Monetary Fund and the European Union aim to implement the anti-grassroots measures and to shield the profitability of their groups at the expense of the interests of the Greek people. In this context, we must also see the latest development of the negotiations with their temporary interruption, the announcement of two bills on the Great Week or about then, which we still do not know exactly how the issue will develop, regardless of whether an agreement has been reached, as the Government says, and Mr Tsipras' trip to Europe, once again, to seek help from the wolf alliance, in order to bring about this agreement. And who does he ask for help from? From Olad, who can't handle his house to tell things by their name. Millions of people have been on the streets of France, Paris, in strikes, in demonstrations, for days, about the barbaric measures taken by their own government there. All in all, this is another incident in our opinion in this poorly played syriall of negotiation, and the debate is about shade. Kuveda is not said about the contents of these bills, with which under no circumstances disagrees with the quartet, even if there is no full agreement on individual aspects of the anti-popular measures that are coming. Besides, as the ministers themselves admitted the day before yesterday, the agreement was very close to closure, and that would have been if there were some more time, as they said. That is why we have been referred to in the next few days, so the government hopes that the negotiations will be concluded, at least as far as insurance and taxation are concerned. Once again, the government is trying to make fun of the quartet by agreeing to the vast majority of these savage measures. One is the closure of evaluation as supposedly anguish of our people, that is to say, speed up its slaughter, and that is why there is agreement with the institutions. The other is trying to pass on the idea that European partners are willing to sign a good agreement, anyway, but the bad IMF does not leave them, because that is what it wants to suck our blood and prevents the progress of discussions, while Merkel, Olad and the others simply want to lick our blood wounds to our relief. Gran Ginool, I mean, it's getting old. Ladies and gentlemen, we sincerely have no concern about whether and when the bills are submitted, whether by absolute or relative agreement of the corpses which you consider to be institutions, your partners' friends, etc. What is not going to change is the content, is the orientation of these measures, which are both classic and deeply unpopular. They are measures that serve only the recovery of capitalist profits from which there is absolutely nothing to benefit the Greek people but will have the effect of constantly subjecting to sacrifices without end and without any positive impact on him. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government elected by the slogans of abolishing the memorandum has now come to the point, 15 months later, not only to apply the previous Memorandums of the New Democracy and the PASOK and to sign another one, but also to make its flag even the literal application of this memorandum, and even as a maximum act of resistance to the demands of the International Monetary Fund. In order to gold the pill, the government says that the evaluation is the last difficult turn, that we will go out in the final straight, that it will coincide with the return of the Greek economy to growth and then the assessment begins the discussion on debt relief. Really, what does it mean back to growth? Is he going to get a job at least half a million unemployed? Is 60% of young people going to get a fixed-wage job, working hours, and the object he studied? Really, what does debt relief mean? Are there going to be payrolls, gifts cut, pensions paid? Would the retirement limits be reduced? Will you even be given decent pensions? Would they be a little less of a tax? Will spending on education, health and welfare increase? If one can expect debt relief and growth, this is the capital, because the relief will save state money for his own investments and growth is identical to the recovery of capitalist profitability. Is the working class, the people, to close the evaluation every time, to catch the targets and the numbers, when, as they all show, the barrel has no bottom? Our people have an interest, walking on the path of overthrowing all of this, to put obstacles to the anti-popular catastrophe. That is why we clearly say that what needs to be dominated on the people's agenda is not the anguish of the ruling order and its parties, but how the people themselves will better organise their struggle to make it difficult to vote, to implement these measures which are to the detriment of the completion of this particular negotiation. How to organise it directly, better forty-eight hours, for example, strike, other mobilisations, whenever the measures come to Parliament, and how this success of the strike will push for further escalation. Because, of course, with a struggle, it is not the end of the matter. How, at the same time, the debate will also be opened, in particular, for the organisation of the struggle, for the radical reorganization of the labour movement, for the construction of a wide-ranging popular alliance. How this popular alliance will direct its action and struggle so that the people can actually come to power. And not playing the Ping-Pong, the known one, between the Japanese left, the tested centre-left, the right, as they are called, and between the parties, the SYRIZA, the ANEL, the New Democracy, the PASOK and other supporters of these policies, which have reached us as the edge of the cliff. In this perspective alone can break the chains of exploitation, unemployment, which imposes a rotten system, its wolves, the type of European Union, the International Monetary Fund, NATO and the bad coup d'état. So, ladies and gentlemen, every time the governments, before the New Democracy and the PASOK, today SYRIZA and ANLE, were preparing a slaughter of popular rights and a barbaric of measures against the people, using disorientation, the globe opposition, were making commissions and other kinds of committees that would allegedly reach the bone, they were changing the agenda or trying to change the agenda of the debate. It is now certain that this trick has been used over the years, that the current government, at least, is not originalising it. Experience shows that a knife never entered the bone, our rapporteur said it, nor can it actually come from those who govern us and are on the same line of cruising. Through the various anti-corruption operations, only the dismantling of popular indignation is aimed at covering the fact that, for the debt deficits, the first and main cause is the benefits to banks and large companies, with the continuous tax exemptions, the constant aid, with the various incentives, Community funds, partnerships with groups, known PPPs, etc. Inside this, therefore, lissars are reared and the various scandals are covered by the real causes of the current deep crisis, which seeks to get out of it with a wholehearted attack only on people's rights. And because you have hypocritically raised, in our view, the flag against interlocutory, to have the good question, the amendment, for example, that you brought and voted a week ago, by which you exempt monopolist groups from a excise on gas, while you are fighting on taxation for the people, what is it? The amendment you brought before you yesterday, which exempts privatised companies from fines, from charges, what is it? Aren't the samples of legitimate interlocutory and support from the state and government in big capital? And all this, of course, in Zula, with late amendments so that the people don't get too badly. We are tabling these SYRIZA amendments as a sample of this very interactive one. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Steenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Corruption and complication are here, ever present. The system rot is not healed by committees of inquiry and by some semimeters. Life expectancy for the system is ultimately these, change spoon for some fireplaces, maybe staff renewal. The government and the parties should not obscure the real nature of the economic capitalist crisis that Greece has been experiencing over the last seven years. They should not obscure the nature and the causes of the anti-population attack, considering that it is all about irrational, supposedly, the functioning of the financial system and the relationship between relations with the parties that have governed both the media and there to put an end to it. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no problem in controlling both parties' loans and media loans from the banking system, as well as in general terms the number of seashores allocated to large business groups, as well as the scandalous funding received from the state. We have nothing to hide, Nikos Karathanasopoulos said in his introduction. But, of course, we do not have any illusions about any results. We will, of course, vote in favour of the committee of inquiry, although the audit could well be done without any committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mrs Olga Kefalayannis asks for permission to be absent from Greece from 19-4-2016 until 21-4-2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u90	The House approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-eight students and students and six educational attendances from the Tsikalion School of Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Javarras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is very pleasant, perhaps I would say a very interesting, experience to succeed in Stepa the Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Greece and to endorse what he has said to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u92	Do you sign all of them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u93	You'll see. Don't worry, we're not gonna be ideologically one. Everyone maintains their autonomy. But, ladies and gentlemen, listen to me. Indeed, it is amazing to bring an application today for a committee of inquiry to investigate the legality of the credit agreements between the political parties and the media operators. And it is amazing, because while one might say that you are being cut for the legality of actions which, of course, are not the subject of public life, are not manifestations of behaviour in the public sphere, but are acts and transactions in the private sector, it is, above all, problematic, because you are not interested in seeing whether the application you are making is legal. In order for this committee to be lawful, that is to say, to be in line with what is laid down in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, first of all, the question on which you are asking for the committee of inquiry to be set up at the same time is also a matter which falls within the competence of the House. Because, on the basis of Rule 68(2) in conjunction with Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure, the committee of inquiry is a parliamentary body which undertakes to investigate, that is to say, to collect the necessary information, in order for the House to do something that is stated in its powers, to make a comprehensive decision. And not only that, but it is incomprehensible - and it cannot be any different - that the committee of inquiry, which is an assistant body of this House, is intended, as I said before, to prepare a plenary decision, to have different powers or more powers than the Parliament has. So on the basis of the Constitution, the powers of the House are two: the adoption of laws and the exercise of parliamentary control. Parliament's scrutiny, therefore, in which this debate is introduced, is an audit carried out by Parliament to the government. And now is the surprise that every good-faithful addressee of your request, but can the media, the banking system, be subject to parliamentary scrutiny? They're government units of operation? No one has, of course, dealt with this issue and it is both both both both open-ended and linguistic in terms of the level at which this request is made, as a reason, I will simply mention this very interesting, as a phrase, 'for the non-existent or pictological collateral of lenders'. The "virtual" is frankly something that surprises and essentially refers to the way you mean the Constitution. In fact, you are doing nothing but betraying with this request your inability to fit and operate in democratic institutions. You tend to adopt the principle of informal political action for fourteen months now. You do not feel well when you are obliged to act under the influence and the territoriality of the rules, the laws. This, moreover, shows the fact that you are always trying to make the most of the heroic negotiation and the evaluation to squeeze them into historical circumstances such that only the political solution is a way out. That's what the Prime Minister did now, that's what he did a few months ago in the summer. But that is not how you operate democratically. But so, instead of really creating something that the place needs to go forward, something new, all you do is show up as the apologies of a country's old-fashioned governance system. Because what we see every day is nothing but the renewal of the oldest past of this country, which we, at least, have taken with the initiatives taken by the President of the New Democracy, with the attitudes we have towards the lending of our party, we have already shown that and we know how to operate within this system - the system of restrictions that is justified - but, above all, to respect the conditions under which the Greek people are obliged to live. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, you did not need to make - and I agree with the Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Greece - any application to check legality. After all, it will be a craving for this committee of inquiry, since Members will be invited, who obviously have nothing to do with controls on loan contracts, with legalities, with equal rights, with regulations and decisions of the Bank of Greece, to consult each day, reach the channels and say anything. I have already heard my friend Mr Balaura, who really is the one today's debate in this House was the occasion to tell us a thousand other things, except for the issue we are talking about. I respect any colleague's point of view, but what I would like to call upon you is that resulting from this agonizing invitation he made to the authorities or the mid-French Revolution - it must have been in 1771 - Marquis de Sant when he was locked up in this famous fortress and told the French 'French, make another effort if you want to be democrats'. You must do the same, ladies and gentlemen. You must convince us that you want to be democrats and work with respect to the rules of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, because we have no reason to say 'no' to the application you are bringing today, but only to bring it to the attention of you because you are in the mood to promote political life, to cover the difficult reality that the place is going through with a communication work that you yourself are directing and unorthodoxly and unorthodoxly. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr Javarra. Mr Dannelis, a Parliamentary representative from the river, has the floor. Should I put the extra time straight, Mr. Dannelly?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u95	Yeah, even though I won't use him. Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the core of the question that led to the depreciation of the political system and the parties is complexity, is the relationship between the political world and the banks and the sources of funding. And we are not exaggerated when we add that this deception directly undermines parliamentaryism, namely democracy. And this is about an estimated part of the Greek society, which faces the civilisation with a dangerous depreciation. Interactions between political parties, media and banks are a triangle of interdependence, condemned by all - alas! - but he was never treated with serious institutional tools. The "black money" that moves within this triangle, in a peculiar form among its three poles, is a time-consuming pathogen and is not only about relatively immature Greek democracy, of course. It is a global phenomenon. Here in our minds, the Council of Europe has recommended the group of states against corruption, under the name of Greco - I imagine it is symptomatic - which has submitted specifically to Greece, not least, until now sixteen recommendations. In Recommendation No 3, and by identifying the core of the problem, it called for appropriate measures to ensure that the bank loans granted to parties, coalitions and candidates are not used to circumvent the financing regulations, since, of course, Greco found that the loans were not repaid under the conditions under which they were granted. However, the banks, which are not renowned for their generosity, are constantly choosing to charge Greek and European taxpayers who ultimately refinance them with their taxes, chasing ruthless petty attempters on the one hand and still treating parties favourably on the other. It is a given fact that the parties understand their relationship with the state and with the banking system as an area of immunity and non-control, outside market rules, outside equivalency and equivalency: the state - feud in the service of parties and private bankers in the service of the party state, a beneficial function for all involved outside, of course, by the citizens. But you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, in the paradoxical sense that the dispute concerns only the neighbor's court, you are completely inconsistent with the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry, at this particular juncture, in this most critical situation where you have loaded the back of the Greek people with thousands of dead-end problems, beyond which, of course, we have been tempted to date, failing to understand that other things should be of concern to you. Just because today's debate, scheduled for the day before yesterday, is today due to the sudden visit by the Prime Minister to Paris, proves that the real agenda should be formulated with other priorities. Your houses are indifferent, you are, unfortunately, playing! In addition, in recent years, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen a large number of committees of inquiry. The list is too long and the result is tragic: no understanding even of the obvious, separate findings, some headlines and the subject, of course, is forgotten in drawers. However, today, we should discuss our big national issues, clarifying the institutions in relation to the negotiation, so as to close the famous assessment made by the Danaides Hall. Finally, stop the puppy and destructive practice of creating convenient enemies in every course of conversation with the lenders, which one unfortunately reminds one of the previous ones tragically. All that they reveal is your lack of basic design and technical insufficiency. Why don’t you, for example, complete the privatisations where your Government is constantly displaying itself with one Janu person? Stop the ambiguities. Listen to the voices of reason and at long last keep the crocodile tears of some - certain all - Ministers that create permanent stumbling blocks. We must, of course, discuss and perhaps before all the management of the refugee - immigration - which tends to become a loop in the country as you have been dealing with it so far. For these important things, you should seek agreement and consensus. That is why we should meet today. With your handling you only manage it is to inflate every bill for Greek citizens and even horizontally, unfairly and inefficiently, as with the increase in VAT you have been working in the last few days. The timing of the selection of the Committee of Inquiry shall no doubt hide political feasibility. The Bank of Greece, in fact, could give you a full picture of the elements it must have and the role it must play. But even so, despite the obvious feasibility and strife, we, the Potami, do not disagree. After all, we cannot disagree. You know, we don't hide any skeletons in our closet. We, from the very beginning of our creation, have constantly made public our financial data for every small or large action, whether it concerns election campaigns or conference expenses, and we always choose the path of transparency by making our balance sheets public. We have nothing to hide, neither suspicious bank loans nor evil donors. We are constantly provoking all those who claim to be linking us with well-known magistrates and canalarchs to provide the evidence without delay. However, they will not, as they have not done so far, because they are quite simply common slanderers, who like to "fly mud on the fan". Ladies and gentlemen of the government, obviously the old political system has been and has to do with black political money, strife and scandals. But you have never felt an obligation to make public accountability and a statement of revenue and expenditure after every costly election campaign, let's say. You have to understand that your stay in power, for over a year already, has deprived you of the famous moral advantage in which you constantly like to refer. The question is that you, too, are no longer 'virginal' in your relationship with power. The administration of power has, unfortunately, faded out the donation stamp that you have always considered on this issue. And you have lost it, because you have proved allergic to any sense of institutional armoring of democracy. You are always opposed to any control mechanism of the executive. You are constantly deceiving rather than strengthening the institutional tools that defend democracy, such as the independent authorities or the clear distinction of judicial by the executive. In the past, the methodology of setting up committees of inquiry not only enlightened reality, but almost always worked on the question of parliamentaryism. Be careful, do not work for them again, especially on such a sensitive and charged subject. Ladies and gentlemen, in the past, the Left was distinguished from its parliamentary morality and gave lessons to society and Parliament. The undersaving of the phenomenon Polakis seals the Left's decline over your days to such an extent that the Golden Dawn just before claiming the copyright to vulgarity and trabuccalism, worrying about the loss of exclusiveity. Shame on you. Shame and sorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u96	Thank you. Mr Triantafylides has the floor for six minutes, and then Mr Papatheodorou. These two fellow Members will speak and then, if one of the political leaders has not spoken, Mr Karras will speak from the Centroon Union. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, let us make it quite clear from the outset: at this moment in time, at this difficult turn of history about our country and our people, maximum national, patriotic social cohesion and unity is needed and required. What unity, however, could be deep and wide, unequivocally populated, if it is not based on the truth, on the restoration of the trenched moral and political relationship, on the relocation of the concept of civilisation, that politics, namely, is the joy of collective supply and daily utility in solving the problems of society, and not the bucket of serving individual or narrow party interests, if the requested, national and patriotic, unity and cohesion do not meet and respond to the indisputable gaze and the spirit of denial of our fellowman, who is far from the political events, even from this minimal participation in the elections, and if we do not show him that we are not all the same? We are trying, today, all of us in the majority - and we are glad to see the consensus of the opposition parties - to reintroduce the concept of politics, supported in the search for the truth of the ungodly and obscene - a picture of a thousand words! - the funds of the parties which are both bank governors. What does it remind you of? Ex-government Bank of Greece? One hand washes both the power party's pocket. The search for the truth distinguishes and does not intentionally confuse the concepts, because it is another understanding and other complicity, another consensus and another cover-up. In other words, because it is national, social, politically necessary and necessary to come together and coordinate in our noisy verbs but also in our decisive and, above all, effective steps, with radical moderateness on the main proposals of our policy, such as economic, refugee and insurance, this does not mean that understanding must lead to the cover-up of the backyard of a particularly sinful status quo. Because in this case any such understanding, which is implied, will be erroneous and lame, will be confirmation of those of our fellow citizens, who speak of 'korky eye does not work'. It is a popular demand that the people who went bankrupt should pay the country, at the same time bankrupt, even their own parties. Light everywhere, light on everything for everyone is the pure, unnegotiable and absolute line of our policy for those who have led the country to this prolonged drama, the tragedy of the monumental misery, which has not yet been redeemed. Because it is national to take our people out of the humiliation of bankruptcy and say to them, who, how and why, and through this ransom, not vengeful, not exterminatingly tracing the truth for the responsible, to create terms and conditions of uplifting, resurrection, rejuvenation of politics. The policy that escaped, expelled and transformed into the American Latina type of European press to return to its birthplace, the policy of the radical measure. The Greek Parliament, the entire political world, is now being called upon to send a strong multiplier message, dare to look into the mirror, sum up forces, value with courage and self-consciousness the unrestrained, unrestrained, unrestrained, frontal conflict of the governance of Alexis Tsipras with corruption and strife, such as this strife and corruption was expressed by the establishment, the corrupt political, banking, median staff and then, already, by the people, leading to the unquestionable history. It was served in the context of this incest relationship between the canal oligarchs, the bankers of the criminal impunity and their political fronts, forty years, where at the same time the professional and businessman listening to us could not get a drip from the banks, the barons of the mid-term rewarding influence - you support, you take a franc - they could take this liquidity into the bank to 'alone it', and indeed on privileged terms, without the return of the borrowers. The money? In Switzerland or the Virgin Islands. Real estate? Outshore. Debts? Article 99. And you, tormented people, wait in line at dawn to get a feeding coupon! The nomenclura of existing capitalism in foam and trembling the people's pamphlet for the next day, for what will dawn on him, count his change in front of the supermarket funds! The unskilled, the unemployed, the homeless to be in "black" uninsured work, at best, and the abstracts of pensioned work - "friendliness". On the other side of the bank, those who defended public abusers, those who with an excess of courage even claim the deletion of their party's debt to have been completely demolished. They ate state funding by 2024, ate the hatreds of "SIEMENS" that entered their fund and left a debt of EUR 214,000, which must have been the "favorable" state to erase. The question of debts, loan and anchorages of the New Democracy and PASOK, in the Greek banking system, remains open and gives rise to a multitude of questions, in relation to the equal treatment of all citizens with equality and equal treatment. The questions arise mainly in relation to the will of credit institutions to claim repayment of loans granted and never repaid loans. This will of the banks to the power parties must result from concrete actions such as the actions to which they are reaping when the two major parties are not against them, but just ordinary citizens - borrowers. The questions to the former parties of power are hot and ruthless.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u98	Have them finished in half a minute, Mr. President, briefly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u99	Yes, sir. I shall conclude, Mr President. Asked first: Will they really inform us of the arrangements they have agreed with the banks so that we can compare them to the arrangements made by ordinary citizens - borrowers? Citizens want to be informed: What interest rates did the banks lend you? Or were your parties' loans from the former ATE harmless? Under the law, are you as PASOK and New Democracy cooperative borrowers with the banks? With what safeguards did you receive these loans? Did you strengthen your properties - in Rigillis, Charilau Trikoupi and others - to cover the EUR 360,000,000 that you owe to the banks, in case you cannot pay these loans? What will you do if the banks ask for your assets to be seized if you are not normally paying the instalments of your loans? How exactly, as parties of responsibility, which you teach others the meaning of responsibility, will you ensure with your personal party example the public interest in responsibility? Your parties have presidents, vice presidents and cashiers. Will you ask that there be personalisation, personalisation of these responsibilities? At last, take their responsibilities? Last question: Can some people be the housewives to others at the same time as theirs owed and for their own loans, which islands? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. The bankruptcy party, now confessed by its own President, is ready to rule, he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u100	When you close, close. Say hello, now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u101	The party that is in a coma, as Mr Mitsotakis said, is asking for elections to rescue the place. He said in December 2015, Mr. Mitsotakis: I am not going to receive it in Syngrou. It is not possible for a party that is bankrupt is still in a very expensive building.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u103	I'm hanging up, I'm hanging up. I've had more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u104	Don't bite, don't bite. The President of the New Democracy will speak soon. They're familiar with this. You've spent two and a half minutes a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u105	We want to hear more!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Kikilia, don't interfere in the process. He had a written speech. He also said it out of breasts and had it in writing in front of his colleague. Come on, hang up, let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u107	The caravan of transparency and truth draws his way. Citizens know, recognize, understand and urge us. Allow the complex to fly and the Himalayan cats to pee. We are on the side of the President, who is impersonating the hope and perspective of Alexis Tsipras, until the final justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u109	We owe no one, no political careers, no investment in political stock exchanges. The only ambition is to blossom the smile again on the faces of the people of our people, not to disappoint our deepest historical self...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u110	Hey, stop! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u111	...as the value of the wide, democratic, progressive, left-wing tradition has trusted us over time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u112	So do we. Mr Papatheodorou, please, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the criticality of this period that the country is going through, with all the fronts open, from negotiation to evaluation, to refugee, is obviously the right time to talk to the Greek Parliament about the financing of parties and media. Appropriate and appropriate to bring back to the public debate the need to moralise policy and the proper condemnation of corruption. It happens, however, when we discover both selective and synchronized morals in politics, that there is a kind of hypocrisy in the feasibility of what exercises power. As Revault d'Alones says: "The hypocrite walks disguised in Tartufos. It hides its true nature and pretends to be virtues that it does not possess." What are we reminded of, ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber, the blurred promises and the roaring screams that the abscess of corruption will break and the masks fall, will the masks fall heads, that clearance will be imposed in the exercise of power or - most commonly - that the knife will reach the bone? What other than low tactical flights each time self - commanded angels of cleanse and priests of moralism? Thus, it is only one month that announcing a debate in the House on corruption, complexity and money policy and a lively suspicion of the discovery of large scandals to disorientate the world from the deadlocks of negotiation, from the forgotten people of the economic recession, from the desperate people of unemployment and occasional employment, from the doomed refugees in places that the government has made beautifully - beautifully, as it has said, without running water, current, doctors and drugs. Do not forget that those who fantasize in the uniform of order and morality and impersonate preachers of social salvation often try to hide personal and political selfishness and fail. Because, therefore, the trousers are finished and the bread becomes relic, you offer the world spectacle and propaganda, create distractions, do how you play with or without a variation of war, show cartoon oversimplifications of the type "all in the light here and now". We heard that before. So obviously we will talk about the funding of parties and media. Of course, where the country is today and where it will be tomorrow morning, this is another debate, which obviously again, in your opinion, we do not have to do. So let us talk about PASOK's finances, because both Mr Balaourras and other speakers have referred to it. The total debt of PASOK today amounts to 177 million and is served with great difficulty, with a reduction in revenue, a reduction in costs and strict control of expenditure. PASOK, as other speakers have said to you from the Democratic Incorporation, is the one and only party from the parties of the Greek Parliament, who commissioned the investigation of his finances to the six largest accountants of the country and sent the same conclusion to Greek Justice - Mr Loverdos told you - since May 2014, that is, two years ago. Was there too much loan? Of course there was. This over-dancing was analogous to both the PASOK rates in the previous period, which at the time ranged between 40% and 45%, and the corresponding State grant of this period. Do not forget that the State grant in 2011 to all parties was EUR 54 million, in 2015 it was EUR 13 million and today it is only EUR 5 million. The reduction in the total grant to the parties during this period was 91% and this is where the current difficulty of serving the PASOK loan obligations is essentially due. This is because, from today's grant - and this is the answer - 60% is directed at the service of the loans. At the same time, however, PASOK housed its finances with difficult decisions, drastically cut its operating costs by 96% and reduced its electoral costs by imposing transparency or economy for every euro, which goes through its fund. In the 2014 elections, in the European elections, our expenses were 2.285 000, of SYRIZA was 1,300 000. I am not going to ask that, because this results from the publication in the Official Journal of the Government. I will ask what I do not know: in the 2015 elections how much was the cost? PASOK has done its self-criticism, has provided all the evidence with transparency to justice, put order on its finances and financed its policy from contributions from members, MPs and members. That's the reality. However, today's debate on examination does not seek the debate on this reality, ladies and gentlemen. As it has evolved, it aims at easy moralising the dialogue on political money, diffusing suspicion of the political opponent, the fragile divisions between good, bad, old and new, cleansing, interoperable transparency and covertness. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we are not all the same, nor have we all contributed the same to the political and social development of this country, nor do we have the same awareness of the need to protect the national interest, if you wish to agree on the examination, to agree on another examination. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will not need more than two minutes. We are proposing to you a committee which will examine the period from our introduction to the euro until now, where the causes of the crisis will emerge there, the flows of political money, the mechanisms of interacting, the obligations of the country and the memoranda, and the economic costs for the country of political choice, which have deepened the crisis and made the Greek people miserable. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the government is confusing political morality with opportunityal moralism. Symptoms multiply. We see an intolerance to all kinds of independent principles, a shrinking of the clarity, selfish uses of the broadcasting landscape, attempts to control justice, preventive censorship in the anti-government view - see the decision of the U.S.A. - raid on the state. I really wonder if, with today’s debate, the government wants to shield the Republic or just wants to impress a particular electoral audience and just its own. If you have any reservations about the need for a committee of inquiry by EMU to date, I would make you predict that this committee of inquiry will once be done, because the Greek people need to see beyond the formulated truth of the communication seem the reality of the political action of everyone and those who played their destiny and their life on tables with marked papers. And then we will also talk about the moral responsibility of the country and the overthrow of the basic rules and principles of democracy and the party self-interest in governance. Until then, ladies and gentlemen of the government, make sure that your inadequacy does not harm national interests any more, because time is over and the diversions do not convince anyone, not even, it seems, your election audience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr. Papatheodorou. The Minister, Mr. Paraskeviopoulos, and then the two parliamentary representatives, Mr. Karras and Mr. Pappas. Here, Mr Paraskevi, you have the floor for twelve minutes and I ask you to keep your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. I can begin with, ladies and gentlemen, with something quite obvious that during the period of the economic crisis, what was intensified was what was more painful in Greek society, inequality. It has been said by previous speakers and I repeat that maritime loans have become even more painful, because at the same time the professional could not have had a necessary loan for his micro-enterprise or because the one who could not repay was losing his fortune, although his weakness could have been due to unemployment. So the issue of financing, of lending in particular to the parties, to which I shall refer in particular, is an element of the whole environment of corruption, which Greek society has been facing in recent years. However, the two themes, the loans of the parties and the media, also had an additional burden on the Greek society and the state. Both had as their victim, as their goal the political system and not just the political and economic ones, as was the case in other cases of corruption. I'm not talking about anything new. The Constitution itself in Article 29(2) shows the importance it attaches to the financing of parties, and that is why it guarantees public grant. Why? For two reasons, for there to be transparency, so that the policy area can be accounted for and, also, for there to be no private dependency, if they were to bear the burden of the funding of the parties. What's happened since then? It appeared that there was one legislation in 2003 first, in 2014 and already in 2015, which tried to regulate the question of the financing and lending of parties, so that we could avoid corruption, rationalisation and political discipline. Did we go well on the basis of this regulatory framework? The answer is no doubt 'no'. And there is also a formal illustration of the problems created by the financing and lending regime in the GRECO reports, the Special Committee of the Council of Europe, which studied and studied in general the issues of corruption, and in particular the international interest in the international political system of lending and financing of parties. What has emerged from all this institutional safeguard? It has emerged that the lending of the parties, and not only the funding, is of the greatest importance to the extent that it prevents private donations and dependencies, but that it is sufficient to provide for effective provision and proper implementation, in other words, that there are no circumventions. Who are these? Who can they be? Loans with incomplete guarantees and preferential terms, retroactive write-offs of loans granted to the parties, thus effectively feeding loans. Note this: A completely problematic relationship between the loans developed in relation to the financing is apparent whenever the loan exceeds the annual amount of the loans. Until that, things are rational. The parties need some money, so that they can exercise their political functions, the annual funding can be delayed, and these must, in the meantime, be done. As far as the annual financing is concerned, there must therefore be funding that is reasonable and there must be. But when the loan goes far beyond the annual amount of financing, what does it serve? Why are so much money given on loans, which, in order to be repaid with the annual funding, should go through three, four and five years? Do you know what a loan means? [[Noise in the Chamber]] I see that there are colleagues who are not interested in this matter. But I assure you, it's very interesting. It means, therefore, that the power parties, which had the large amount of funding, should have state funding, not to cover their necessary political functions, rent, PPC, other electoral expenses, but to serve the debt. So how do they serve their political function, when their money goes for three and four years to serve the arrogant loan and in a clear way? And what is happening exactly what the Constitution does not want, does not want international society, does not want the rational economic system and nobody wants it. That's what happened. We had loans in our country, which went far beyond the annual allocations provided for by the legislation. And, of course, this overrun was also illegal because the 2003 Act provided that loans should not exceed the amount of annual financing. However, this was not the only way that lending began to lead to circumvention of the system. There were many loopholes in the legislation concerning the supervision of the whole system and a lack of information. There was also - and this may seem to be the detail but, in my view, it is particularly critical for the whole coverage of the issue - the possibility for the parties not to mention in their balance sheet their loans, which have been written off and given pleasure. That's what was left dark. This was how the loan was being drawn from a rational economic and political function and provided to a giftary sponsorship. Did we do something as a country and as a state? We did something! We followed GRECO's recommendations from 2003, which were the old legislation by 2014, which made us remarks, which I would say are already embarrassing. Because others concern gaps in legislation and other non-implementation of legislation, and the latter is the worst. In 2014 we reached a new piece of legislation, which indeed has many positive elements and corrected some of the bad texts that GRECO pointed out. Have we come to have a proper regime? No, because he left gaps and the 2014 legislation. Because it allows for loans that are written off on the balance sheet, and also allows for certain gaps in information and information to be made available to the competent authorities, without institutionally excluding them. What was the real situation in which we arrived? The real situation - you have heard it from Mr Papatheodorou earlier, as far as PASOK is concerned - were highly indebted parties with loans which cannot be politically, rationally and economically justified in any way and, of course, a malfunction of the economy and politics, which was clear. What did it mean? I would like to tell you in clear words, and I would ask you to pay attention to terminology. I'll try to keep an eye on her myself. What happened was a treaty to develop bribes. What do I say we watch out for? I am not saying 'they have become bribes', I am not saying 'we reveal bribes'. I say that this is how there was the blurred landscape in which bribes could be developed. That's what we need to look for. Where is bribery, the essential, if you like, bribery and when can it be created? On these terms in any country. When a party can take a loan, which is much greater than its needs, on privileged terms, to be retrospectively deleted, that is to say, that it is well encouraged and that the same party can, when it is in the government, provide an interesting regulatory framework to those or the environment of those who offer the loan. That's a transaction. I'm not saying it's done. I say it needs to be examined whether it has been done by the Committee of Inquiry. Mr Vorides was right to say "question for the Bank of Greece". Of course the Bank of Greece must be asked. Not only the Bank of Greece, however, because in this game many have been involved and told you the following: not only the Bank of Greece, we have responsibility for politics and we have responsibilities beyond the banks to those responsible for supervising the whole system. They may not find responsibility. The presumption of innocence, if you want. But we have the evidence to investigate. Let me say another thing: This transaction, which could be covered under this benefit-sharing scheme, was a very easy transaction. A classic bribery is dangerous to the one who gets or gives money. Will he give the cash in suitcases? He can be arrested. Also, it should then make a 'loving'. How does "love" work? Will he issue proof? He'll pay taxes. 'Lie' costs financially. And it has not only economic costs, but also institutional and political costs, and it certainly also poses the risk of arrest. But what was resulting from this type of transaction that I described was "white" money. It was not black. They didn't have to bleach. Officially, there was a big package there and any other favourable contribution on the other hand could be made within this framework. Of course, within the favourable framework for the development of these exchanges, we will also have our laws which, in some cases, have said, not only on this subject, but also on other occasions, that it is not an infidelity or the other, making it easier for the landscape to be plentiful and to investigate the conditions. What is the government doing right now? The government at the moment could, of course, in theory, maintain the blurred landscape and exploit it. Play the same game, get loans and move on, taking advantage of all the opportunities that the treaty gives you that I have tried to describe. He doesn't. What's he doing? Two steps: one is a committee of inquiry which will enable these mechanisms to be revealed and, if there are any guilty parties, to be punished and in any case to be changed. At the same time, the Ministry of Justice, within the competence of the Deputy Minister and in particular the General Secretariat for Corruption, has drafted a draft law which is currently being promoted, debated in the context of the n. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. Therefore, for my part, there have been no revelations. We do not adopt the resounding tactics. What is happening is to explain why the whole state is in need of the cleansing and we show that the government really has the intention at the moment, instead of taking advantage of this position, to help to light up an examination that will separate fair and unfair. I would remind you, of course, that the archives - because in some cases they have been - do not produce reciprocity. Of course, the Committee of Inquiry will not intervene in cases where justice is handled - these have taken the lead - but it will show some things that can then be exploited by the prosecution authorities. And I stress that the government is not seeking revenge. He's not trying to find scapegoats. It does not seek rival stigmatizations. It seeks to deal with corruption and the orderly functioning of policy in terms of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-two students and apprentices and five educational attendants from the Elementary School of New Village Chania and the 3rd Municipal School of Argostoli Kefalonias. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Parliamentary spokesman of the Centroon Union, Mr Karras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, do you remember an old game, the Nazis, that was putting their ships toward each other?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u118	Yeah, I remember her. When the computers first came out, that's how they learned.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u119	Let's see when we get to the point today!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u120	Excuse me. Do you suggest it to Mr. Carras? All the presidents are next.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u121	The time is 14.10. Once again, we are very consistent with our programme!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u122	Come on, please. You have the floor, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] We, as a new parliamentary party, come to the debate on the committee of inquiry, I must say, with some awe, that a committee of inquiry is at least of moral importance. We cannot anticipate results and conclusions that will come about, but at least about the moral gravity, which is mentioned in the Rules of Procedure, so we are here today to discuss. However, I understood something in the course of the debate that the proposal was not up to date. Because, on the one hand, lending the parties from the banks and, in particular, from the power parties - the parties that have exercised power - is what is of interest to the House today - has started from now on, as has, respectively, already been the case, the lending of the media. So on this path, as I have heard from previous fellow speakers and lastly from the government representative, Mr Paradise, the data and events that could lead to safe conclusions have changed. Why? Because we have intervened and changed legislation constantly and in this way, we have created conditions of immunity to all those who may have engaged in or participated in a collapsing of money from the banks, whether to the power parties or to the media, which, whether we like it or not, are interlinked and interconnected in the reality that we have done and are going through. So the search for responsibilities through a committee of inquiry is the impression, if not the certainty, that it will not only contribute to the complete revelation of the truth, but will not produce teaching conclusions in the way at least, as long as we are able to know, which also operated previous committees of inquiry, which were slowly moving forward and, at the end, nothing came about. In this particular case, therefore, what would have a particular value for us would no longer be expected, as Mr Paradoxopoulos said, to draw conclusions from a committee of inquiry to legislate. It would be reforming legislation for the future. Why am I talking about the future? Good or bad, the notion of infidelity - which would at least create responsibilities for those of the bankers, of the bank executives who had the opportunity to lend either power parties or the media - has been lifted multiplely by the Greek criminal law system. This funding is no longer considered unbelievable. There have also been provisions that have been lifted and the criminal. So what will be the conclusion of a committee of inquiry? Possibly moral. It will, if necessary, give rise to political tensions, but what is to be done, what will happen from now on, will not give us that. We do not believe that people will be led to undergo the hearing of the criminal courts and why, in general, a principle that is intended - and we all know it in the Chamber - the Greek system of the Criminal Code is the beginning of softer law. So in application of this one with any interpretative versions supported, one cannot be penalised. I'm talking from the bank side. On the part of the parties, of course, it will not touch the leaderships because there are managers who are typically responsible. So they will not, if there are any violations of criminal law, be judged to be partakers, since it is always the one who makes infidelity who has the necessary capacity, the banker who, according to intermediate laws, does not commit infidelity. So, what are we talking about? We must therefore move on to new modern legislation, because we must say something else. The method of financing the parties was associated with lending, the funding was provided, the State aid was often given as a guarantee to banks, and this doubled the funding of the parties, it was two times, for three times. Today the figures have been heard, I do not want to be tiring to repeat the amounts that have been given either through funding, State aid or through the banks. So these cannot be repaid for this reason: with what guarantees were given? No guarantees were given, no collateral was given, no pledges were given, no personal guarantees were given, nothing was given, at least for the parties. So in the sense that we will be vain because, although the Greek people's request is the return of the lost money, this cannot be done. From the media point of view, I think - and you will allow me to use the word - ‘weak’ is to wait for what? The moral justice that there will be responsibility for some who have financed the resources? There are given that there are mechanisms in both bankruptcy law and commercial law and money laundering that will have eradicated the consequences when we reach a conclusion. To be realistic, then, we insist on something else. Let us sit down and see a new legislation which, in the next constitutional revision, will be of particular importance. Why am I saying that? With the current economic conditions, as the country - which is at a very bad economic point - and the funding of the parties has been limited and cannot be borrowed by banks anymore. So what has been given will be included in the so-called red loans, because they will also be made red loans. It is not just household loans, which we all support, and we say that a solution must be found. They will therefore also be entered in the red loans. Well? In our view, this is not a timely process of vain. The question is, from now on, what we are doing. Of course, we will say our opinion. We will not deny the setting-up of the committee of inquiry, but we consider it inappropriate, inappropriate and only to form impressions to fuel those who are supposed to be affected by the media, to whom we will give food from the committee of inquiry. The older ones have the experience of leaks, you have the experience of interviews, many things, such as panel attendances, discussions, tensions. So we will give them food to continue this 'funny' - please forgive me the expression, if it is to be cut off - and to look for Don Quixote's Doulcinea. In conclusion, Mr Panjah, we support the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry, for ethical reasons, so that Parliament can at some point share a moral responsibility. We do not expect that there can be any other form of responsibility. And we are proposing that all sides should work towards active legislation, finally that we achieve what is being called. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much Mr. Carras. Mr Pappas has the floor, and then the Prime Minister and the President of the Police Department will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u125	I will start by mentioning the words of the Secretary-General and President of our Parliament, Mr Nicholas Michaloliakos, yesterday in the Senate Hall, during the Golden Dawn event, which, for today's sitting, said that this is an impressive move. He also said that the Golden Dawn has the immediate solution and that the Golden Dawn would have downloaded the switches to the bankrupt "chottocanna" of intertwining. Today's debate, ladies and gentlemen, is an extra trik of a government, co-government, I would say, better, that has been literally lost. It is a government which, against the tsunami of debts and the blackmailing of creditors and against the upcoming national disaster, is literally devastated, inert and, I would say, I have been under a certain amount of time. For the Prime Minister, but also for the government's complement, Mr. Annell, I have to say that the more than 40-year-old experience of post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-mortem-multi-mortem-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-mority experience tells us that, when you want to cover up a scandal, a political crime, an illegal, you're setting up a committee of inquiry, you have a finding - usually come out of many findings from the parties, from their representatives - it' s aways the thing and the sinful and the guilty political system, it continues to destroying and its disgus. I do not see any particular reason why this has changed the fifteen, sixteen months with the original SYRIZA - ANEL government, let me be allowed the word 'primary'. I say "original" because we have an ethnicist left-wing government with a right-wing or far-right tactical corporation, a government that implements the worst neoliberal policies, signifies monuments, abolishes labour rights, beats up, with the repression units of the police, that is, MATs, Greek protesters for the occupation of their homeland, Greeks who repeat on the islands and elsewhere the central slogan of the eighth Congress of the People's League - Golden Dawn: "We want our country back." So, gentlemen, you were 15 months in space not only to smash the memorial with an article in a single session, as you promised falsely to the Greek people, but also to reveal all the names of the intertwined pimps and businessmen in this Chamber. The Deputy Prime Minister, Drasakis, who had promised that the names would be revealed by the SYRIZA government. Nothing! Unfortunately, you are nothing but the left version of the sinful xenophobic right of the center of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and Bildeberg Samaras. You showed everyone your real face, the other side of this currency. And for 15 months you haven't done anything. Just now on the pretext of a so-called "cleaning" you want to redeal the deck inside the country and at the same time create your own fireplaces. I'd be very happy if I was mistaken for the good of the patron. But, unfortunately, your policies not only on the issue of corruption, but on a lot of burning issues about the place show the opposite. These are policies which have the most negative impact on our people and not only on our people today, but also on the generations that come. Should we talk about national issues when NATO is stranding in the Aegean Sea and the poachers instead of falling, are they growing? These are poachers you're begging with brochures - listen, listen! - to comply with the laws of the Greek state. These are poachers that you have provided and advertised through their own brochures free of charge, feeding, medical care, and even studying at universities, you promised. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, I would say that all this is not conspiracy. I'd say yes, it's true that you're acting on the basis of a plan. You are in a hurry to change the national and Orthodox character of the Greek state. We Greek nationalists with the braves of the Greek people, i.e. with all the awakened Greeks, fight and fight now and always with a weapon the truth and faith with what the Constitution and the political system offers us to take our homeland back and win. And you know we're gonna do it. Which one of you, ladies and gentlemen, will answer our questions, which we have asked since 2012, which have appeared on the political front with our entry into Parliament? Who will answer how much the parties owe, what interest they pay, when did they get these loans and if they can be paid back? What guarantees were given for these loans? How was that money used? Did the parties pay and pay their debts properly? If the party doesn't finally pay the red loan, who's gonna pay it? Who have the political and criminal responsibility for this scandal? How's justice? As far as the information truth is concerned, yes, we will fight to get the truth out. But you left-wing and right-wing are basically agreed. You are agreeing and voting together for memorials. And we're talking about a party that doesn't even know how much it owes. One says 160 -- 160 are assured -- his president says 190, and last posts speak of 200, as was heard in this Step. A party to the debts has the courage and expects to rule with a slogan that it can settle the Greek people's finances. This party cannot settle its own finances and has the courage to address the Greek people again! However, we Chrysayites have popular origin. None of us are sons or grandsons of any historical period. None of us come from a political fireplace. So our rhetoric and original word and the truth we said from the positions of the Golden Dawn and from this step frightened you. The sunlight surprised you. You who have been drinking the blood of the people for so many years as genuine followers of Turkish rule and genuine representatives of the Kojabashids. Our word and our presence broke the day-to-day you all set up together in this house of scandals and waste. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So I ask, gentlemen, if the people who are listening to us and watching us - who has for the first time revealed the seven-sealed secret, about parliamentary compensation? Yes, here, from this step. The competitor, Ilias Cassidyris, read and filed in the minutes the parliamentary compensation, namely how much a Member gets. Who have, since 2012, raised the issue of parties' finances, maritime loans, bankers' responsibility, the responsibility of party managers, party leaders? Who, for the first time, mentioned this step by name as pimps, the canals of mass deception, all those who in a stubborn way, are shaping public opinion? First one of us. Yeah, we do. People's fighters, MPs of the People's League - Golden Dawn. Mr President, I will take my dentistry, please, and I shall be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u126	You've got her, Mr. Pappa. It's eight minutes plus four. That's why I didn't bother you. Until the twelfth minute go, but that's it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u127	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you. So we said, and we continue to say things with their name. We are conscious of what the Greek people have sent us to the Greek Parliament. And that was one of the reasons why the Samara government's gang, in good co-operation with offender circles and judiciary officers who use nicknames, nicknames, i.e., the type "pantheneals", "principals" etc. He put us in jail for eighteen months. I remember that on Friday, September 27, 2013, we submitted evidence that made PASOK a truly criminal organisation. We submitted to the same prosecutor the evidence that that afternoon was launching the illegal prosecution against the Golden Dawn. In fact, one week ago he had told the prosecutor who had found: 'I want quick and positive results'. Is it accidental that on 27 September we filed press reports on the robbery of PASOK and the next day, on Saturday, 28 September 2013, we found ourselves prosecuted illegally and unconstitutionally without our parliamentary immunity being removed in a cell and after a while in prison? Is it random? It's no accident. Nothing's random. We saw then, as in film films, that the government operates as a mafia, that the government of so-called patriot and pseudo-machine Samaras should literally kidnap us and put us in prison.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Poppa, we've been through this before about the characterizations. Please. You're referring to a former Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm ending with Mr. Papagelopoulos' words...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u130	Please don't come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u131	Delete it from the Minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u132	Please, these words "prophetically" etc. they're cut.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u133	I did not say 'progressive'. I said "falsely-brothered."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u134	Please. These "fake..." and "fake patriots" etc. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Avramopoulos, his Minister, in July 2013, to know, gentlemen of the New Democracy, why "you are doing Alekos", said the gentleman who is now in Europe: "We agree with the use of the term "Macedonia" by geographical determination." It was the Samara government's Programming Declaration and took votes from so-called phony patriots on the right. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u136	And put the erga omnes to be full...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u137	The President now has the floor, Mr Alexis Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mitsotakis, today I intend to make political criticism and ask you to explain. I hope that you do not respond, once again, with sues and sues, because you have been following this practice for some time now in order to maintain your silence. You have already filed - your members, not yourself - two complaints, the spokesman for your party, Mr Kumoucasos, the Government Representative and the former Prime Minister, Mr Samaras. Why? Because the Government's representative had the courage to criticise political papers and ask for answers and ask for explanation. And you, instead of answering the substance, seem to have introduced his strategy by sues and pipelines. I would like to point out that these two issues on which the Government representative has called on you, your party, not the former Prime Minister or Mr Kumucako personally to explain some of them, were crucial issues. One, which concerns Mr Samaras, the former Prime Minister, has to do with the management of the previous government against tax evasion lists, with the fact that both the Lagard list and the Borgians cds have never been exploited. And it now came out in the light of publicity that, based on these publications, not only friendly persons, because you know we've reached the point where the ten Papastavros - I wish we had ten Papastavrou - is a person, but it's on ten different lists... [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But not just for it. We also see relatives, persons who, with their special skills, have managed to hide from you all the previous period. And instead of saying that, in any case, some must explain, follow the tactics of the complaints, such as, of course, the crucial issue of blackmailers and payrolls that you seem to have been across - as a party, the New Democracy - with a quite important rent. I think 10,000 euros a month is a good wage nowadays. No answer, then. Nothing about the truck. Typical lawsuits and lawsuits. Do you know how our people say that, Mr. Mitsotakis? "The thief cries, to be afraid of the housekeeper." [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You sue, you are pursuing an aggressive policy, so that we can stop showing what concerns the average Greek citizen. And what concerns the average Greek citizen is how the country got here. How did the country get here, a country that organised the Olympic Games in 2004, a country that was in the twenty-two richer, developing countries? What was that system? Who was this 'a present'? Because you also used that expression. You go abroad and try to discredit the country, not the government. 'The 'partner'... - says - 'the incompetent who governs the country must leave'. This "partner", who plundered national wealth, which has reduced national wealth over the last few years of the crisis and has managed to facilitate the export of money abroad, will this "partner" ever be accountable? But it seems it's time he's answering. Answers, of course, have not been received. You continue to cover Mr. Papastavrous, who was even found in Panama Papers. You continue, of course, to cover the things of the Samara government and do not give any answer when it is proved why he was hiding the lists in the drawers. And I believe that you will be given this opportunity today to finally give the Greek people some clear answers. But, Mr Mitsotakis, all you know from your little term of office as President of the Civilian Opposition, in the only thing you know about getting clear positions, is when you are in favour of the country in favour of third parties. When some were threatening Greece that it does not do enough, that it does not do what it should, that it does not fulfil its obligations and will leave Schengen, you had come to the House here to defend them and take a position that they are right. When they closed the border on the Balkan route, you were quick to defend those who did this unilateral action, saying that it is not a unilateral action, but that it is the government that does not know what it signs and what it decides at the summits. When the police of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, FYROM, were recently attacked at the border on refugees, you took the position of the government of Skopje, where you basically said that it was the Greek government that did not have the police to prevent the refugees and that is why what happened. And more recently, when the International Monetary Fund asked for more measures than agreed last July, you rushed to take the place of the International Monetary Fund. And I ask you, Mr Mitsotakis: in critical times will you ever defend - with your disagreements, obviously - the interests of the country, the positions of the country, the needs of the country, or will you constantly defend third-party positions towards the country? That is the crucial question to which you must answer. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] At my previous meeting you asked me to imagine Greece from above. And you said, 'a vast refugee camp'. You described in black points, where you stand and where you find yourself in Europe and in the world, there is a climate of recognition for Greece - and for the Greek people, particularly - as the country that has raised Europe's human face in an unprecedented refugee crisis. And tomorrow, in the climate and in the indication of this recognition, Pope Francis comes to Lesvos with Archbishop Hieronym and Patriarch Bartholomew. So is it a depreciation picture for this country? Is it a picture of a country that is dispersed, a failed state as you say, of a broken state, or is it the image of a country and a people that at critical times, despite the unprecedented difficulties, the financial difficulties, the financial difficulties, has given out of its flaw and has highlighted Europe's human face, solidarity, humanism, words that you have never mentioned in your speeches? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And I remember, the only criticism you had to make to us - you were not President at that time, Mr Kumoutsakos - was this: 'What did you get to show people to refugees?' And I told you that in order to implement our principles and values, we do not need to take it. Whether we had or did not have an obligation in the European Union, we would show this person to those in need, to the defenceless people, and would not support those who close the borders and throw tear gas and plastic bullets at defenseless people. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] However, even in what everyone in Europe recognises, the sovereign right of an elected government to choose the means of achieving the agreed objectives, you have speeded up calling it a 'unionary energy'. And pay attention, no one else has rushed to say that, nor the International Monetary Fund, with which you stated in WASHINGTON POST that you are fully identified. The world has a tombstone, and you're the one who's hidden. You have shown your pride in America on your recent trip. You're king's elders, I'd say. Of course, I would like today and on this point to explain what you mean when you say, 'I fully share the views of the International Monetary Fund on labour market and structural reforms', because what...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u139	When did we talk about this? Report to the Minutes what I said. Check it out!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Mitsotakis, don't get upset. You have a jet lag. You will have the opportunity, when you go up to the Step, to answer what I say to you one by one. Don't get upset. The entire Greek people know that you have interviewed 'WASHINGTON POST', in which you once again discredited the country internationally. Did you of course ask - what else? - Elections, saying the government coalition is about to collapse. And when did it happen? Just before the critical assessment, i.e. showing the whole planet - because in the United States of America you were - your intention to drive, in order of course to regain access to power, the country and the economy to the size of credit suffocation. This is your objective once again, such as Mr Samaras's objective with the 'left parenthesis'. But you won't be a favor. You won't be the favor! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You know, you have to understand that you will wait long, especially with these extreme neoliberal positions. There is no way the Greek people can trust you. So what did you say? [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Don't interrupt me. You will be able to answer and answer you too. You said that you were entirely in agreement with the fund's positions on labour market and structural reforms. In short, for the Greek people to understand, you fully agree with the collective redundancies because these are the positions of the fund. In a country where unemployment has ejected 26% of the 7% that was before the crisis, you want team redundancies and you have the courage to blame the government for what is happening right and left in large businesses that are firing people. And, of course, you want the lock out and the trade union law. That's what you want. These are your views. I don't blame you for that. Maybe it's a good thing you don't hide them. You don't cover them. That's your ideology. You are defending the rich against the low layers, against low incomes. Of course, your view on insurance is the abolition, new reductions in pensions and the zero deficit clause, namely, that there should be no supplementary pensions. And at the same time that this government is fighting, claiming and having serious alliances throughout Europe in order to keep - and I will keep it, I tell you - these red lines, you are going to the United States of America to take the positions of creditors, creditors and the International Monetary Fund for pension cuts. The Greek people will therefore judge you, Mr Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u141	Please don't react.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u142	He'll judge you. The Greek people will judge you. He has already judged you three times in a year. But I would like to say that the only thing you have expressed your disagreement with the fund is what the fund is right, which is that debt is not sustainable. What did you say in your interview? You said that you do not consider this as important as the reforms. After Mr. Samaras and Mr. Venizelos, maybe you should now join the line of claiming the debt sustainability certificate. In other words, you seem to want the debt to continue as a mechanism for imposing austerity. However, what, ladies and gentlemen, is a nerve is the Chief of Staff Responsibility to speak of left totalitarianism. I think that this phrase is perhaps the most complete one that has been heard in this Chamber. It is courageous to accuse the current government of doing the self-evident thing, which not all the previous governments have done, or which some have tried - like your own party - but they have not dared, have failed to do: to put a class in what is called 'complex', to proceed with the tender for television licences, to finally enter a class in this place and to feel that there are laws for everyone. And you have the courage to go out and say that this is totalitarianism, because - he says - the government is trying to control the media, and, in your opinion, the media should not pay taxes, pay fees, and should not have legal authorisations having paid for them, which is only the case in Greece from all the countries of the euro area. Of course, the nerve goes one step further, when you dare blame us for the capital controls and credit suffocation imposed last year...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u143	Please be quiet. Please don't interfere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u144	You even reached the point when there were reports about leaks from WikiLeaks, you instead of dealing with the substance of these leaks, leave misguided insinuation about where these papers broke, where the leaks took place and talk about safety. Instead of being able to identify yourself with the national position that we must not let - and we will not let anyone go - once again in suffocation in order to blackmail the sovereign Greek Government and the Greek people, you take the position of lenders and ask, in fact, for the Greek Government to reveal where the leaks were. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] You don't like these and you're refreshing, but I'll see you around. So if you're looking for guilty men - I've told you before - do not look for guilty men to those who defend the right of the Greek people. Another looking for guilty men. We'll move on. And I want to assure you - I know that you will not like this - that the evaluation will be closed without further measures, because that is what the agreement made last July stipulates. And everyone has to keep up with this deal. You may be alarmed by the fact that the President of the European Parliament and the President of the Commission who has appointed the European Parliament to monitor developments in the negotiation take a stand in defence of the country's negotiating position and say: 'Every country has a sovereign right to decide on the means by which to implement the commonly agreed objectives and you must not dare take this position, but I would like to assure you that: The country's not alone. The country is right and this time she will find it right and we will be right. We're gonna get through this cavo. The economy will return to growth and the Greek people will finally see, after six years of disaster, a light at the end of the tunnel, with the protection of the first home, with the programme to combat the humanitarian crisis, with the law on the health care of uninsured people, covering two million uninsured people, with our proposal for a new tax which for the first time puts the burdens on high incomes, with our proposal on insurance, which, despite the fact that you had anticipated a terrible reduction in pensions, is a proposal of justice that restores the sustainability of the insurance system, but also social justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address this House with regard to today's proposal. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I heard it bothers you to talk a lot. I'll send telegrams next time. You're talking on the channels. You've been talking all day. Let us talk to the House, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u145	You're welcome. Okay. You're thankful. Don't imply it so much and constantly. Calm down. Prime Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u146	I, Mr President, am glad to hear the honourable Member's thanks, Mr President. They're creating a nice atmosphere. Of course, it would be good instead of smiling, giving any answers to everything we say to them. But it's okay. The Greek people understand. He understands why our country reached this point because it was shocked by this economic crisis in 2008 in the most violent way than any other country in Europe. It understands why - the figures prove it - unemployment, debt has escalated. You will tell me that perhaps this is not the time to have this debate. But I think this debate should have taken place a long time ago to prevent Greek society from being overwhelmed - the whole world would have said, because this has dominated everywhere - by a misleading account of the political establishment and the sovereign media. What was that narrative? That the Greeks were lazy, that they lived above their capabilities or - even worse - that we "we ate them together", as Mr. Pangalos said. The main aim of these slogans was obviously the collective indictment of the Greek people, in order to make it clear to the true responsible for the destruction of the banks and, of course, the parties that supported them and supported them. Here, you know, we're not talking about two hundred families as it once had been. We are talking about a strong social power, about an entire - although minority - social order that cuts society down on its measures. And the question we all have to answer is simple: How much did this empire of easy money cost the Greek people? I'd say, how much does it still cost? How much do political parties cost? How much does the media companies cost and how did the banking system serve with loans? What if any of these loans were granted before the crisis, when the banking system seemed shielded and the credit rating of borrowers might have been sufficient, changed something after the crisis over the last six years in that country? How did all these organisations and businesses experience the crisis? Did they have equivalent consequences to all other Greek citizens, or did they continue to be treated privilegedly? I think that these are the key questions which the Committee of Inquiry in Parliament has to answer. At the same time that our society was at the forefront of the austerity that we lost our share of GDP, thousands of jobs lost, the period of redundancies, the dismantling of the social state, the unprecedented burden on taxpayers by the recapitalisation of banks, the period of dismantling of the insurance funds with the famous PSI we now have to pay, what shame, what criminal will has allowed bank loans to be refinanced? Furthermore, on what basis and on what basis did the parties of the old regime continue to borrow with guarantees of their future state subsidies? What feasibility was served? It is the same advisability that today unites these parties with a large share of the media on a common front that fights with nails and teeth - without regard to the state of the economy - for one thing, not to continue this effort. I have spoken many times from here on the Step towards the balance of terror, in this system of power, on the basis of mutual blackmail and mutual dependence, for this triangle of interlocutory, which first legitimised and promoted the logic of the state as a pretext for plundering and access to state power as a source of power and enrichment. Secondly, he designed and implemented state policies for the benefit of economic and political elites, granting criminal immunities, ending trials, leading to criminal cases in the file. Thirdly, he tried - and by '12 he managed to fortify the political establishment against any attempt by society to shape its overthrowing conditions. The faces and policies that have supported the sides of this triangle are fortunately cooling, they are making their last irresistible screams, expecting that they will be able to save themselves from this catastrophic indeed - but for them - governance. Because for them it is disastrous to ask them to pay taxes or not to intervene in justice to get rid of them if they have committed offences. But it's too late, because this game is over. But let me take things from the outset, each side of this triangle, first - and, of course, with its honour - the financing of the parties. The question of the financing of the political parties lies at the top of the agenda of most advanced democracies, as well as a series of international organisations, such as the European Union and the Council of Europe. The main thing here is that the flow of money does not determine political decisions, which is specific to two central objectives: the first concerns the fair and transparent distribution of state funding, so that it actually serves its purpose, namely the functioning of political parties as a pillar of democracy, and the second concerns transparency in private financing, particularly transparency in bank lending. And the questions on everyone's lips are relentless. What were the works and days of the parties that have been in power for so many years? The state funding of the political parties in Greece followed an unprecedentedly distorting course. At a time when the amounts of State funding were increased under the pretext of exclusion of their dependency on private financing, the dependence on private financing and bank lending was also reinforced. Bearing in mind the lengthy course of state funding over the past fifteen years, one is literally aware of the fact that, as the legalisation crisis of bipartisanism progressed, the money that the two big parties have shared with one another, trying to keep with one another fingernails and teeth in power, was being expelled. The total amount received by the New Democracy from 1999 until now as state funding is EUR 301 million and the total amount received by the PASOK from '99 to now as state funding is EUR 296 million. It is clear, then, that the big parties at the time had created a special cartel that was suffocated for everyone else. Also, because of their governmental or potential governmental position, they had access to sources of private funding not only by their members and voters, such as healthy, but also by major entrepreneurs and other interests that were aimed at all kinds of direct or indirect services, and of course they used their power to regulate the relevant issues properly and always consensually. There is, however, an even greater issue with regard to the financing of the parties to the old political system, a timeless scandal I would dare say, the issue of their bank lending which has deliberately remained in an institutional vacuum for decades. While there was a whole grid of detailed arrangements on a number of other issues relating to the private financing of political parties: coupons, bans on funding from specific sources, etc., the huge issue of state lending to banks, state funding, remained a legal asset and of course the issue of private financing a legal asset. And it is no coincidence that the issue of bank borrowing was finally settled for the first time in 2014 only under the burden of the generalised uprising on parties' maritime loans. This regulation also provided for the first time for a ban on bank borrowing with State funding beyond this year. However, earlier and while there was an ongoing investigation by the then financial prosecutors on the issue of the sea-supply of political parties, in 2013 the scandalous arrangement took place at the initiative of three Members of the New Democracy, Mr Tsumanis, Mr Christoyannis and Mr Stamenitis, with which, on one night, the officials of the banks that provided, among other things, risky loans to their institutions were relieved of criminal responsibilities. And who paid, ladies and gentlemen, or rather who pays, who continues to pay the broken bills? The Greek people with the constant recapitalisations of the banks, because the losses of the loans granted to the parties were transferred by decisions of these same parties, which were then a government majority in the House, on the backs of the taxpayers. It is well known to all of us that the reduction of state funding, of course along with the electoral reorganisations, has caused this phenomenon of the bulb of lending the two major parties that have been faced with an absolute impossibility to meet their debt obligations. In fact, one can understand the precarious nature of the loans granted to the two former major parties with future state funding, as this guarantee was based on a double assumption. Not only would the two major parties remain large in order to continue to receive the share of state funding, but also that state funding itself will continue to move at the same inconceivable heights. 2009 was over 80 million in total, 86 million. Today is 6 million. Because these parties, and the New Democracy and the PASOK, were, in fact, borrowing air, since no one knew whether it would continue to exist and how much State funding would be that would be right at the moment - because I am talking about the years of the crisis - that the ordinary citizen or the small and medium-sized professional were forced to produce countless evidence and to grant warrants of often multiplier value. And as if that were not enough, the challenging lending of the parties continued even when the banks at night closed the cliff in the real economy, causing asphyxiation to small and medium-sized enterprises. For example: only in 2013 and while New Democracy had already been in debt at the time 145 million euros, it received a new EUR 14.6 million loan. In other words, every rule has been circumvented and banned in relation to the private financing of political parties. A picture of the real sizes of the New Democracy and PASOK bank loan, based on the figures we have today, is the following: PASOK has a total loan of EUR 125.5 million, New Democracy EUR 197 million. The question is one and I address it to the Presidents of the parties. Who's gonna pay for that money? Who? Will your members pay for it? I wish. We will support you in such an effort. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I don't know if PASOK can do the same. New Democracy can do it. Make a campaign, we'll support you. However, I have the impression, ladies and gentlemen, that your members will not pay it. The Greek people will pay for it once again. And that is what we must not let and we will not let it happen, that Greek taxpayers pay once again. [[Applause from SYRIZA and ANEL]] But we, you know, don't just care about a record of the problem. We are interested in taking action to extinguish all this rotten structure that you have consistently and methodically built at the expense of Greek taxpayers. Because, in fact, what you have done is to transfer the sins of your bankrupt parties to the backs of society. At the level of legislation, we are therefore moving forward in the next few years to adopt a new legislative framework on political money, in which we will also address the question of bank lending for political parties. In more detail: Publicity formalities are being introduced, but also a system of supervision for any loan to political parties, and in particular for any regulation, deletion or other debt arrangement of the political parties to the banks. The aim is, on the one hand, to check whether the financial rules are complied with and, on the other hand, to inform the Greek Parliament and, on the other, to inform the citizens of the amount and the institutions of the bank lending of each political party and of any facilitation to them. We also committed ourselves to the fact that scandalous arrangements and interventions in pending criminal cases - which I referred to on the previous day's agenda in detail - will immediately be abolished. And within them - as I have said before - it is also the provision that provides immunity to bank managers who have granted your maritime loans. In other words, this is not a question of closing down because an amendment has once been adopted. At the same time, we are working on a more comprehensive regulation for political parties and the political system in the context of the forthcoming constitutional review, with the aim of restoring the confidence of society in the political parties and I hope that we can reach agreement on this. As part of this initiative, we will review the institutional framework as a whole, not only of the state funding of the parties, but also of the framework for providing all kinds of facilities to them. For us, the solution to the problem is not the abolition of state funding and the legitimisation of private donations, but the existence of funding with absolute transparency and control, of course, within the scope of the Greek economy. Allow me to say a few words on the other big subject of exam that is loans to the media. It appears in the name of so-called pluralism and supposedly independent information, newspapers, literature and television stations that marketed the news, were borrowed - we all know that - without qualifying. The same conditions were those that excluded the large majority of natural persons and businesses from lending. Of course, the crisis followed, the memorials, everything changed in the country. Media funding has not been touched by anyone. The old loans that remained in a peculiar non-payment immunity were refinanced between 2010 and January 2015. The question is, really, what was the reason why at the same time the banking system imposed the average taxpayer on recapitalisations, media loans, rather than being repaid, refinanced? And what was their consideration in order to pass under the strait of austerity and fiscal adjustment that has touched the whole country? What was the agreement and between what forced banks, instead of demanding repayment, to make rapid settlements of loans? I think the answer is well known to everyone. The government at the bank, the bank at the channel, the channel at the government. Communicating cans. In this country and in this Memorandum Cylon, loans were granted or refinanced which should have been or have been denounced. The loans were registered in TECHNIA, which had not published any balance sheets, had negative own funds. Journalism and television stations were refinanced with many millions of euros, more than once, with non-existent or at least inadequate collateral. At the same time, the state, the government, your governments were not even collecting the rights from the use of frequencies, while constantly deferring the collection of the television advertising tax. Here too, I think the numbers speak for themselves. According to data from the Bank of Greece, on 31-12-2015, the total lending of the media sector amounts to an outrageous amount of EUR 953 million, almost one billion. And at the same time they didn't pay frequency fees. And for the first time in April 2015, approximately EUR 40 million were established, due to the period of governance 2011-2014. The allegations made by television broadcasters for, of course, supposedly, offsetting with free television time, arguments which your Members too have heard many times reproducing, have fallen void in the courts. The public now collects and you blame the government for wanting to collect for the public. You say he wants to impose a junta on the radio space. You know what? We are not going to continue this immunity and protection in the media. That is why we know that we will bear costs, the cost of having the distortion of reality every day. But we also trust the Greek people's crisis and criterion. And some people know something and you listen to us. Some thought that the continued attack, defamation, distortion, unprecedented aggression of a media share will work negatively in our efforts. Finally, they were our medals. We will lose to the public and the Greek people when those who protect you with nails and teeth start to support us. And that's never gonna happen! We will never tolerate 'pimps' supporting us, as someone once said! But now you're protecting them. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close by saying that today's meeting also coincides with the vote by all parties, because that is what we learned a day after the proposal was tabled, that the New Democracy supports it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u147	You found out the same day.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u148	On the same day you didn't even dare to smash it from this Step, Mr. Mitsotakis. The next day was the announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u149	That's all right, we welcome that you are voting on a committee of inquiry, and I hope you will give us all the information that you have. However, I would like to say that today is important for another reason. Not only will there be a committee which will examine thoroughly what has happened with sea-loving in parties and the media, but also why it has been posted, the tender notice for television licences has been published. After twenty-five years of immunity, the law will apply to this place. Despite threats, despite blackmail, we won't take a step back. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And we will go through the canvas and lead the country to a clearing of social justice, transparency and advancement for the Greek people who have suffered so much over the years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House forty-two students and students and four educational sessions from the 48th Municipal School of Patras. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would very much ask that the Chief of Officerial Response and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u151	Mr Tsipras, you must be very desperate to start your speech as you started it today. You spent twenty minutes of the hour in a personal attack, since of course you defended the government representative by abducing New Democracy because its officials are appealing to justice. Will you forbid us, Mr. Tsipras?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u152	Of course not!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u153	I wonder what the next step is to plant us and three meters under the ground?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u154	It is a disgrace to say this in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u155	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u156	I imagine that the Minister is addressed to his colleague and not to the Members of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u157	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u158	Mrs Karamanlis, please. Be quiet. In both the Chamber and the government headquarters there are no interventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u159	You then devoted a quarter by advertising my interview to 'Washington Post'. Thank you for that, but you have probably not read it well, because once again you have completely distorted what I have said. I am therefore presenting the interview in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Study it in English and you'll understand exactly what I'm saying, Mr. Tsipras. I can give you an accurate translation if you need it. So let's make it clear, Mr. Tsipras. I defend the interests of the country, as does this fact. What you have not understood is that the interests of the country are no longer matched by your own interests. And the country's interest requires you to leave an hour ago. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But, don't worry, your blasphemy is assured. You will remain in history as the prime minister of closed borders and closed banks. Ladies and gentlemen, if Mr Tsipras respected the pretexts of political correctness, today we would debate our proposal, Mr Tsipras, to set up a committee of inquiry into the events of the first half of the country's governance by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. And we would do that, Mr Tsipras, not only because our proposal was preceded by yours, but because our proposal is timely as opposed to yours, which has no urgency. We have proposed this committee of inquiry to investigate the reasons for the closure of banks, the imposition of capital restrictions, the signature of the third memorandum, the need to recapitalise the banks. In fact, Mr Tsipras, you did not tell me, will you vote in favour of this proposal, since you claim that you did not impose the capital restrictions? Behold, the field of glorious glory! Come on, let's go to the exam and find out the truth! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I don't suppose you have anything to fear of in this debate! Because it is really very important to know whether this time last year there was a country's exit plan from the euro. It is important to know whether this plan, which they said was prepared by the ministers of the previous government, was in your knowledge, as these ministers claim. It is important to know whether these Ministers have acted in your absentia or after your orders. It is important to know if you knew last year that with your actions and your omissions you eventually led the country to capital restrictions, in a third memorandum, which brings wide your signature and the need to recapitalise the banks, with the tragic consequences that this had for the Greek society and the Greek economy. But above all, Mr Tsipras, it is very important to know whether your last year's suffering has become a lesson or if you repeat the same mistakes that led the country to the edge of the cliff today. Because the way you face your first evaluation of your memorandum does not convince anyone that you have been taught something from your last year's achievements. Unfortunately, to borrow a phrase of your favorite Marx, history is repeated as a prank. Really, I wonder sometimes, ladies and gentlemen, if you wanted the country not to live up to last summer's experience, what would you be different from that which you are doing today? You have rocked 20% of the time of the new programme and you have not taken a substantial step towards its implementation and you are still "negotiating" - always in introductory form - the first assessment. I would remind you that this assessment should have been closed since autumn, as early as November. You have lost all credibility to the institutions, which are suffocating and entering airplanes, to leave Greece of intercepts and surveillance. And you deal with intercept products instead of dealing with hard reality. The miracle of conflict with the International Monetary Fund lasted only a few days. Of course, I saw that you again published an article in the Financial Times yesterday. But what I know is that by irresponsibility, with your turbulence, the way you exploited politically this leak, the result does you know what it was? Enhance even more the role of the Fund and its pressing requirements. And the threats and lionifications of the government have finally not frightened anyone. And the drama - because that is what you did - of a intercepted conversation - I do not know who intercepted this conversation or leave any suggestions, Mr Tsipras - I know that he has made the creditors even more obsessed, so that you receive an unprecedented letter on the data of international diplomacy, Mr Tsipras!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u160	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u161	And with your handling the image of a government which, instead of negotiating again, plays communication games: you have travelled again as a matter of urgency to Paris and Strasbourg. You have postponed the scheduled debate to go to Strasbourg and Paris to bring back the caramel of the political negotiation. You are announcing that you will submit unilateral bills, Mr. Tsipras, and then you are making press releases that they can be modified in consultation with the institutions. That is what we denounced, Mr Tsipras, these jokes and greedy things that are happening from your government! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You are setting up - and you have attempted it today - another miserable performance. Only this work no longer cuts off tickets. There are spectators, of course. The Members of the government majority who need an alibi to finally vote for the tough measures of EUR 5.5 billion, which your third memorandum will impose on Greek citizens. And while you are negotiating, the clay is constantly emptied and we are reliving the same drama. In a few days, the last possibility of an early assessment expires, the deadline which you yourself had set, on 22 April. Mr Chakalotos, your Minister - I do not see him here today - is the one who said that if May enters, we are burned! Only with you people is burning in any case! The ones who get blunt are the middle-class, the unemployed, the workers. All of these will pay very expensively your landslide, with increased taxes and increased contributions. And I really wonder, Mr. Tsipras, if you understand that you once again submit the Greeks, the Greek economy, the businesses, who so much expect stability in this torture of the drop. I have warned you, I have told you this again today: every week and the negotiation is not complete, the account is increased. Every week that passes, the country's negotiating position is weakened, Mr Tsipras. Every week it passes, the worse it becomes the more intense it becomes the social accident report. "The bad things have passed, the worst things are coming," your ministers reminded us. Unfortunately, they are confirmed every day. That is why the Committee of Inquiry, which we have proposed, would be really useful and timely, so that Greek citizens can know what you really have in mind today. And judging by your position today, I imagine you will not deny it in the end, so that your view of who is responsible for the fact that the country entered the third memorandum will also be heard. I would remind you that there was a committee of inquiry from the previous House. She could well continue her work. You chose not to. And the reason is clear. You don't want this committee of inquiry, Mr. Tsipras! You do not want it because you are exposed to your actions and omissions and why you are shaking the real revelations. Because we are living again in 2015 and you have learned absolutely nothing of last year's disaster. Yes, because it was a disaster that was done for the real economy, Mr. Tsipras. You still don't understand it and you can't stand coming before your responsibilities! You don't learn anything from your mistakes. You continue unrepentantly the same destructive work. Every day that passes, unfortunately Greece is more like what the Anglo-Saxon friends of Mr. Tsakalotou call "Banana Republic", Greek "false Republic of Banana". That's where you brought us, Mr. Tsipras! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] That is where you brought the country, and unfortunately that is not what we are talking about, and that is what a lot of people are saying outside Greece, because that is where you dropped the credibility of the country. At this very moment you have remembered to look for the responsibilities for the time-consuming bad texts of our political system. I did see - thank God you did not do so today - that in the previous debate you set a timetable for when the committee of inquiry has to complete its findings. You said to be in May rather than the "Saint ever", to use your own expression. Given that, I imagine, the House will close some days in Easter, you will expect a conclusion in two or three weeks. I suppose you might have it already ready. But, Mr Tsipras, your proposal is not subject to any real interest in transparency in the political system. Not at all. Your script unfortunately is a lot in this year and a half that you're in power. You are doing so today very much - I have heard your rapporteur say so - the parties to the bank lending of the past. And indeed, you are absolutely right. There was one - unacceptable, I dare say - practice to borrow parties against future state aid. Let me fully agree with you. I wonder, though, was the New Democracy and the PASOK the only parties that have adopted this practice, which you are currently working on? I'll tell you a story. It is the story of a small party, Mr Tsipras, which in 2010, when the economic crisis had already erupted, addressed a large bank to ask for additional bank borrowing. In the letter, sent by the President to this large bank, he states: ‘The existing debt obligations to the bank amount to EUR 6,6 million and to them has been granted to the bank on a regular basis for 2011 to 2014’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u162	Another 6, another 206!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u163	He's talking about something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u164	Please! Please don't interfere. Mr. Barka, don't interfere. Don't interrupt, ladies and gentlemen. Don't make me say names.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u165	Take note of this, ladies and gentlemen, because it is of great interest, even greater than the previous one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u166	Please! Mr. Theonas, please! Don't make me, ladies and gentlemen, say names. Mr President, you have the floor. KYRIAKOS MATSOTAKIS (President of the New Democracy) Reports the President of this small party in December 2010, when the crisis had already begun, which is even more interesting to justify the request for additional lending. Attention is required by the bank of a wider view that is not exclusively determined on the basis of strict and unique financial criteria. Who are you kidding, Mr. Tsipras? Who are you laughing at? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I put the relevant letter in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] How'd you say that? "Woe you", to borrow your dear expression. And write down two more things. New Democracy did not get a loan in 2013. New Democracy has not received a loan since 2012. In 2014, New Democracy voted n. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work was adopted by the Council on 14 December. And I wonder why, really, you are so interested in transparency, why did you set up the Committee on the Control of the Parties in August 2015 and why this committee of control, led by Mr Bored, if I am not mistaken, has not yet posted the financial statements of the parties on the Parliament's website? It is so anguish that the government is in control of the parties' finances! And then you have the courage to address the New Democracy and me personally, when I took over the Presidency of the New Democracy, I made all the information on the economic situation of the party public. We will do our own economic consolidation. And we have courageously committed our responsibilities to our citizens and to our members and committed ourselves to being consistent with our financial obligations. You know that well, but you have concealed it today, that I have tabled a detailed programme for the resolution of the New Democracy's finances, which is based on a drastic reduction in operating costs, and of course, yes, on private financing by the members of the party. Within the next two years, New Democracy will reduce its operating costs from 8 million to 2.5 million. We've already launched the relocation process in a new building. We're gonna save almost 90% of our rent. Of course, yes, our establishment plan is also shrinking, unfortunately, to adapt to the difficult economic situation. We are making tough decisions, Mr Tsipras, but we are dealing with the problem with responsibility and determination. Let me remind you of one more thing. Our loans were made when state funding exceeded EUR 30 million. Today is only four, and that explains the derailment of our finances. You were getting big loans when you were a party of 4%. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Also, for all colleagues, who rush to ask the reasonable question, "How are the loans served?", you know very well that 60% of the state grant is directed directly to the service of the loans. And you know or should have known, if you had followed my public statements, that I am committed that by 2018 100% of the state grant will cover our loan obligations and the party's operating costs will be covered exclusively by our membership contributions. We have already launched an economic campaign and the response of ordinary neo-democrats is very encouraging. Yes, the New Democracy will no longer be burdening Greek citizens. We go along with three principles: Transparency, balanced budgets and not bank loans for operational or electoral expenses. We, Mr. Tsipras, have nothing hidden anymore. We made it all up. We have publicly assumed our responsibilities towards society and vis-à-vis our members. You are prepared to provide for other legislation when you have not even implemented the existing ones. To catch up with you, don't worry. We in our own new statute, which we will be voting on in a week from now, have included a provision to ban New Democracy borrowing. So, we're gonna solve this on our own. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We're running open books. We rely on the four hundred and thirty thousand members for our funding. I wonder, Mr. Tsipras, can you do the same?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u167	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u168	Why don't you, Mr. Tsipras, present SYRIZA's finances, as I did with the New Democracy's figures? Why don't you do it? I challenge you. You make a presentation like the one I did. Speak openly about your debts and tell us, above all, how you financed the three election campaigns that you caused. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] How much did your last national elections and communications superproducers cost?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u169	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u170	Who financed you? Tell us at last! [[Sustained applause from the New Democracy Wing]] There was no website on the Internet where we could enter SYRIZA's last election and not have been paid for SYRIZA's advertising. There was no pillar in Athens, in which there was no poster from SYRIZA. So tell us, too, how did you finance all this? We revealed our trials. So do you, too, instead of moving the finger of morality to us. Take care of your home first and stop covering nursing practices and "hosts". Because you know that today, Mr Tsipras, from this Step you have again been provocative. A few days after the last debate, which we had, you had come to the House to tell us about the fight against corruption and interlocutory. So what did you do a few days later? You have immediately closed the case of Mr Stathakis, with EUR 1.8 million undeclared deposits and participation in thirty-six properties. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And, of course, because this is not just about you, it is about all of you, SYRIZA's fellow Members, who have voted together against the lifting of Mr Stathakis' immunity, so that he does not account for justice like all ordinary citizens. I do not know whether Mr Stathakis is innocent or guilty, but I believe that you should - and I imagine you would agree with me, Mr Tsipras - in these cases the politician should answer to justice regarding the management of funds of the University of Crete. And, of course, so that we do not forget what has been going on in this House over the last few days, you have now withdrawn a provision tabled by three of your Members, which was exonerating in the matter of mismanagement in education, which seems to have been two of your ministers. I am sorry to say this, but also under the responsibility of the Bureau of Parliament, what has been happening in Parliament in recent days has no precedent. You are legitimate in ex post expenditure. Legislation without the agreement of the General Accounting Office of the State. I don't even know if you know, Mr. Tsipras, what's happening in this House. You've turned the House into a washing machine to rinse out your officers' injustices. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] But you do not only stop there, you continue - and you still do so to this day - to prejudge the decisions of justice in an unacceptable way. Mr Tsipras, I do not know if you understand this, but with your constant interventions for officials belonging to the New Democracy, you are prejudicing the work of justice in an institutionally unacceptable manner. I don't know if you've got that thing figured out. you deprive citizens of the right to a fair trial. Do you understand that, invoking the known tax-government lists, you target politically specific executives?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u171	You're talking about Mr. Papastaurou?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u172	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u173	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u174	Do you not understand that the right to a fair trial is inalienable and constitutionally guaranteed, and while a case is pending in justice you have no right to speak about this case? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And as long as you do this, Mr. Tsipras, you are eavesdropping every case concerning your own members, from Mr. Flaburaris, and his torque to public works, to Mr. Stathakis, who forgot to say 2,000,000 euros. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So don't move our finger, Mr. Tsipras. You have no moral stature to do. The institutional damage, which you are bringing to our democratic community, is not inadvertent. It's appropriate, Mr. Tsipras. I have repeatedly likened your Government to a subtle iceberg. In this case, what seems to be the white top, is allegedly your intention to serve transparency, and underneath there is a threatening black volume that erods our democratic institutions. The Committee of Inquiry, which we will be discussing today and we will vote on, because we have nothing to fear, is another setup to turn the eyes of the citizens elsewhere, hunt witches, expose supposedly scandals. In the previous debate in the House, you prepared us with leaks, with announcements, with no papers, with statements by the Government representative, that you will make shocking revelations. Instead, you have shielded us from a number of previous government legislative initiatives. Of course, it sounds in our ears, but also in Greek citizens, the narrow voice of Mr. Drasakis, who while he was in the opposition said: "The government of SYRIZA will reveal in this Chamber the names of the interlocutory". We're still waiting to find out, Mr. Tsipras. We're still waiting. You didn't even sing a name. Instead, of course, we learned...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u175	Papastaurou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u176	Please. Listen carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u177	But we have learned something: In your free time you have made coffee for those who have been intercepted, which you have denounced. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The situation in the country is very serious, Mr Tsipras, for such cheap settlements and for disorientation exercises. So, ladies and gentlemen, you will think: why do we vote in favour of the proposal to set up this committee of inquiry? The reason is simple, I mentioned him before. We have nothing to fear. We also learn from our mistakes and our omissions. We recognised them bravely and stand with responsibility to the Greek citizens. We know very well that the credibility of the political system has been shredded, which is why we are investing in the truth of responsibility. We also build slow, but stable relationships with Greek citizens. But this credibility that we responsiblely defend with all our powers, you have been placed to destroy it because you systematically serve humiliation downwards, you poison every sound institution of our society. Now I fear that you are also seeking to humiliate this committee of inquiry, for which all parties agree. First of all, let's make something clear, Mr. Tsipras, which is probably missing you. In your proposal you connect two different issues: Bank loans to political parties and bank loans to media companies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u178	It's different, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u179	These should normally be investigated by two different committees of inquiry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u180	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u181	Because loans to political parties, as you know, are loans to associations of persons who have no property and collateral, and there are obviously specific and legal and regulatory gaps. The Committee of Inquiry should focus on this. However, loans to the media companies are normally business loans, which fall under the control of the banking system supervised by the Bank of Greece. I assume that the Bank of Greece has done its job well and has supervised, among all the business loans and loans to which you have referred. The correlation between these two categories of loans and their treatment by a committee of inquiry is unreasonable. We will actually have two committees of inquiry, with a different object, on one. But let it be. Mr Tsipras, of course, it is not the only institutional acid that this House has been facing for these days. Besides, for us the fact that the loans from the media companies were made is less important than loans from the political parties, which are loans that concern us directly. Once again, therefore, we will be voting in favour of the proposal. We also disagree with the time when this committee is set up, and with the examination of two different issues in a committee of inquiry, and of course we also disagree with the suffocating timetable you have announced. One thing is certain, therefore, that this committee of inquiry will take real time to investigate this case. This year we hope he will have him. The Committee of Inquiry should investigate whether Law 3023/2002, as amended in 2014, actually applied what were the results of those provisions of the Act and what might have been the consequences for its non-implementation. And if we really want to face these pathogens of the political system, let us at least leave this committee of inquiry outside these conflicts, and no good results arise, in view of the interest of the Greek culture as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, if you really wanted to go ahead with strong measures to shield transparency and the credibility of the political world, you should already have, Mr Tsipras, agreed in this Chamber on our proposal for a radical revision of the Constitution. We should all vote together and agree that the next House will be a Revision House and rewrite together a new constitution, which will not be a brake, but will be a catalyst to get our country out of the crisis. And I invite you, even today: Exceed your well-known micro-party self. Now adopt this proposal. Because it is regrettable that you and the government majority once again, for reasons of communication, propose the lasson, the setting up of a committee of inquiry, while refusing to discuss the major issue, which is the revision of the Constitution. But unfortunately, your institutional emotiveness is inversely proportional to the lies you have told the Greek people. The institutional shielding of democracy is none of your concern. Once again you want to turn the interest of society and its attention elsewhere, away from the suffocation that your own policies cause. But let's not be fooled, Mr. Tsipras. At least we can be honest with each other. You know very well why you are asking the Committee of Inquiry today. You are trying to cover up the absence of the state from the drama of the mud of Idomeni and from the favelas which has unfortunately been created in the first port of the country. And yes, you have reached the point where you have given about the neighbouring country's border guards the order in Idomeni. And all of this, so that some of your people will not blame you for breaking the rights of some refugees. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I wonder - and I told you last time, but it seems that you did not understand - if you have any real contact with the reality, if you realize that you are living in error - because this is a mistake of a small majority, while your society has turned your back and you are going to hide the image of decomposition of a government, which, even today we are talking about, is in two boats: on one boat, the so-called application of the memorandum, and on the other boat, heroic resistance. We have reached the point of living the end of the absurdity last week, at the time of the signing of the Piraeus port agreement at "COSCO", two of your ministers completely express their opposition to your signature. If they mean it, they should have already resigned or, in any case, you should have expelled them. But it seems from this government of populism and lies there is no sign of honesty. All you care about is staying in power, because for the first time left, you know, friendly is obviously a bourgeois deported. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You've dismissed the feeling of shame. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] The shame, you know, is this inner voice, which forces us to comply with unwritten rules of social and political behaviour. But unfortunately, there is no shame in your government. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You accept this self-determination of conflicting views, precisely so that you do not confront the internal contradictions of your Ministerial Council. The image of a government that opposes itself would be filthless, Mr Tsipras, if it were not so tragic. At the same time - if I believe your statements - which you are preparing to bring in measures exceeding EUR 5 billion, you are signing statements against austerity with the Portuguese Prime Minister. What can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u182	But where would you understand that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u183	Yeah, where do we get it? We have limited intelligence, you see, we and the Greek citizens, who in all your polls turn your back. No one understands. You're the only one who understands!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u185	Of course, not to forget, the dear Minister of State, who opened the doors and windows at the ERT, to appoint friends and friends, suddenly discovers that ERT has exaggerated staff and wants to send it elsewhere! So, in order to get away from these unbearable contradictions of your political bipolarism, you remembered the loans of the parties and the media. In any case, we will do our job responsibly, Mr Tsipras. I invite you to come - not, obviously, your members - with the same responsibility as this committee of inquiry, to really learn the truth and, of course, to reveal to us the financial data for SYRIZA. I think that all Greek citizens will expect them with great interest. But I understand that what I ask you to do is difficult. It's not exactly in your DNA. But get over it for once. Let us finally go, Mr Tsipras, before you leave, because one thing is certain: you will be leaving sooner or later. Everyone knows that. Greek citizens know that too, even your MPs know. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The question is: How much damage will you have done, Mr. Tsipras, at the place when your citizens have definitively turned your back? Every day, ladies and gentlemen, the request for early elections is made more urgent and, unfortunately, the tragic manipulations of the last ten days have proved to be awkward. The 'first time left' is in danger of scanning everything in its path. Society is suffocating. Citizens are desperately looking for somewhere to get caught. They finally demand that the state should function, that this country returns to normal conditions, that they can finally, in some way, plan their lives, hope in a better tomorrow, breathe again. And only the elections today can offer the oxygen that our country so much needs, oxygen for a new beginning, oxygen to put behind populism and inability, oxygen to dream of Greece, which we all deserve. We, ladies and gentlemen - and I am closing with this - are ready to take our shoulders and your responsibilities, if necessary, Mr Tsipras. They are responsibilities that do not correspond to us and I have a full sense of difficulties. But I do not have the right neither to hide nor to fear. And the New Democracy, perhaps much sooner than we would have expected, will again be called upon to take on the difficult task of repairing Greece. He will, because - unfortunately - as you did, there is no other option!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. He has asked and will be given the floor by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u187	Again?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u188	Yes, of course! Is it possible to say "flat"?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u189	When is this happening?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u190	Always when there's a report...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u191	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u192	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu! I would ask Members not to come out of the Chamber, because we will then close and close a serious point of order before giving the President of the Democratic Independence the floor. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u193	I shall be brief, Mr President, because Mr Mitsotakis has the plane to take. I won't be long.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u194	I already missed one flight, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u195	Mr. Mitsotakis, you started your speech with a phrase that was extremely aggressive, that we came here and blackmail you, we threaten you and we ask for a committee of inquiry. We don't blackmail or threaten anyone. We ask for what the Greek people want to know to light. You say we do this because we threaten to put you under three feet. Mr. Mitsotakis, some of the others tried to put three meters down the earth in the HICP scandal. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But there will not be three meters under the land of the CEDEFOP scandal, neither will the SIEMENS scandal nor the parties' maritime loans nor the Lagard scandal of tax evasion and the Lagard list! I asked you once again today to take a place for the infamous close associate of the former Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, who is not involved. And you, instead of taking a responsible position and posture, basically invoked us for our reference to the close associate of the former Prime Minister, who was, of course, accused of being indicted by us as opposition and is also accused today that the Lagard list case together with Mr. Venizelos was hidden and only went to court to Papaconstantinou and concealed their own responsibilities. Mr Venizelos had exactly the same responsibility as Mr Papaconstantinou. He was Vice President of Mr. Samaras. And of course today we are learning, by accident, that on this list they were relatives of Mr. Samaras. And without shame today he files complaints and you come here and defend Mr. Papastavrous, saying that we deprive him of his right to a fair trial!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u196	Please, ladies and gentlemen, do not interfere. Mr. Voridis, don't make me say names. Please, be quiet! There's been a lot of names.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u197	Can I continue, Mr. President? But, Mr. Mitsotakis, language! Because what we are asking is for you to explain, for justice to go ahead and for the case to be cleared up. You, at the edge of your speech, know what you said? On the participation of Mr Papastavrous in the 'court-of-court list'. In other words, you called him a tax-free. You burned the man! I don't have to say anything more. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But you have the audacity, Mr Mitsotakis, to compare the loans of the New Democracy with the loans of a party, which, at the time of the thick cows, which Parliament decided to grant EUR 86 million in state funding, had a 3% mortgage on the loans received by the party's office building in Koumoundouros Square. What mortgage have you put on? What assurances did you have for the 200 million financing from the banks, Mr Mitsotakis? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Answer the Greek people! You compare a loan of 200 million with a mortgage loan and a guarantee of 8 million euros. I'm talking about sizes that are 200 to 10, middle ends. So the question, Mr Mitsotakis, is: Are your loans served? That's the question. You say you will provide all the state funding for the service of your loans. But do you know how much the entire state funding is today? About 6 million euros. How much does New Democracy get? How long are you going to pay back these loans? You'll be doing over eighty years! Is that what you want to tell us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u198	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u199	Mr Mitsotakis, you said that you were open, you said, "Get it all out." So, because you have challenged me, I say 'Come on and put sworn accountants in your funds and in our funds'. But take Mr Mavrikos' invoices to the Committee of Inquiry, Mr Mitsotakis, because you have not made it all in light. Some of you have hidden them. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And let me tell you one more thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u201	You compare the big assumptions that you say we target your officials - and you mean Mr Papastavrous - with Mr Stathakis's case. So try to make a terrible setback at this point - because, say, say, something will remain - the same is the case of tax evasion, participation in lists, in his assumption that he had made an omission in "possibly" and was examined. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Why are you shouting? Why are you shouting?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u202	Because the rest of us went to justice, that's why!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u203	Listen, don't shout.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u204	Don't interfere!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u205	So the Commission - to inform you, Mrs Bakoyannis, you are shouting - in which, as you know, not only members of the SYRIZA participate, but also members of your party, both in the case of Mr Stathakis and in the case of Mr Flamouraris - which you have made flags and elections, and after the elections - has decided and put these two cases in the file. And the decision was almost unanimous, six - one, one member of the New Democracy voted down, the six majority voted. Of all six, it was only SYRIZA's. So why do you come back again and again on a subject? To create the misguided impression of offsetting in a clear history, against the misery of tax evasion, the misery of "SIEMENS", the misery of seafood? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, do you want us to respond in the same way? Oh, no! We are, of course, taking this attitude as a political weakness and will not respond with such misery. Let's do all you want to sue! The history of tax evasion, the history of seafood, the story of blackmailers, the history of "SIEMENS" we will highlight it! Any lawsuits you want to do! Once again, Mr Mitsotakis, you have proved yourself to be a bad advocate of the International Monetary Fund. The International Monetary Fund does not need lawyers. Whatever they have to say in public. But you have tabled to us here in the Minutes your statements, in which you are saying that you agree to a substantial amount of reform, to what the International Monetary Fund proposes. I am glad to hear you say that, because that is your ideology, that is your opinion. What I'm not happy about is defending the fund where you don't have to defend it, demanding new measures and the leaks on the right and left, that the issue is not if some people try to take the country into suffocation, but who do, who do, who take these leaks out. But Mr Mitsotakis, because today you had a written speech, which was again speaking about the committee of inquiry, you were unhappy, because you obviously did not take into account a very important development. You had a written speech, talking about a committee of inquiry, about the great damage that the banks have done. And you were unfortunate not only because the entire Greek society knows that the banks were recapitalised with just 5.7 billion, while the agreement provided for 25 billion and the markets put about 8 billion in these banks. You have been unhappy because today Mario Draghi, the Governor of the European Central Bank, has issued a communication which will probably force you from now on to say your story'since the collapse and collapse of the economy' without a dragon. Mario Draghi announced the participation of Greek banks in the programme of quantitative relaxation. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from SYRIZA Wing]] There's no dragon your story, Mr. Mitsotakis! This decision is equivalent to indirect capital support...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u206	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u207	...and this means that domestic banks can gradually sell up to 50% of the EFSF issues, which are integrated into the quantitative relaxation process, bonds held by Greek banks of over EUR 30 billion in their portfolios. So 50%. This means that banks will have aid very importantly, amounting to EUR 18.5 billion. You realise that this is not just a substantial relief to banks and liquidity. This is the beginning of the end of the crisis and of the assessment that comes, you want, you do not want, without any further measures, as the International Monetary Fund is keenly seeking!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u208	Let's see how you go to your villages...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u209	Come on, everybody's going to their villages. Look, don't say that again. That's what we told the Conference of Presidents, to... So we've come to an understanding. Go on, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u210	Mr Mitsotakis, you said once again that you are asking for elections and that whatever we do - you have addressed me personally and the government - 'you will be leaving sooner or later'. That's what you told us. I would like to remind you that'slow' from 'fast' has a difference. Mr. Mitsotakis, you are the gene of a historic family, which I honor. I would like to tell you that your father did twenty-five years, from 1965 to 1990, to become Prime Minister. You, with what you say and do, you'll do a lot more and I don't know if you'll be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u211	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u212	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u213	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, first of all I have to say that I am surprised that you have chosen to start your position by making a reference to the sad phrase that the Minister for Health has written, Mr Paulakis, without condemning it. I would therefore ask you to condemn this unacceptable debate, even now, in public and not to use this phrase to distort my arguments. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because it is really sad, in trying to emit your government's political cheeks, to adopt a phrase, which actually encourages violence and targets specific journalists who are, in fact, poorly condemned by the Board of Directors of the OSCE for free expression of opinion. This is what I would expect you to condemn in a country that respects freedom of opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u215	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u216	I'm coming to your favorite topic now. I wonder sometimes, ladies and gentlemen, how many lists of Lagard and how many Mr Papastavrous the Greek society can eat. I really wonder!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u217	You'll answer it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u218	No, I won't. That's the mistake you're making!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u219	Please don't answer. Rhetoric is the question, and it's fine. Come on, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u220	I won't answer that. New Democracy won't answer. The Prime Minister won't even answer. That's why I'm pleading with him. Independent Greek justice will respond. No one's guilty until he's convicted, Mr. Tsipras!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u221	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u222	Mr. Balaura!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u223	Let's talk about it all so that this fairy tale can end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u224	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u225	Mr. Papastavrou is accused of a tax evasion case. He has appealed to the administrative courts. Has his case been dealt with?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u226	Pay!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u227	He has appealed to the administrative courts. You don't even know the basics.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u228	Mr. Balaura, please! Be quiet, please! When some questions are asked in the context of a speech, they are of a rhetoric. It's not for an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u229	Four judges, what are they?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u230	The commission! In justice, if you have the guts, go!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u231	Please, Mr. Flampourari and Mrs. Bakoyannis! We interrupt speech and thought.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u232	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u233	Please, be quiet from the ministerial benches! Please, Mr. Kurubli and Mr. Flambury, quiet! Mr. Mitsotakis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u234	I wonder sometimes, ladies and gentlemen, if you have considered anyone who has appealed to justice might even be acquitted. Have you considered this possibility, that there is this case? When one resorts to justice, Mr. Tsipras, he can also be acquitted. If that happens, what are you gonna say? Are you going to apologize? That's what I expect of you. If Mr. Papastaurou is acquitted, go out and apologize. But I'm the one who's in charge of something else. I urge you that, by politicising a case in this way, you exert indirect pressure on the court. That's why I'm begging you. And that's what you can't understand! That's why you're intervening in justice and you don't let her take her decisions freely and independently! I now come to the issues of 'outside' and immunity. Look, we in the New Democracy have a simple start. As a general rule, we ourselves vote in favour of lifting, so that we can go to our natural judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u235	That's our difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u236	So this little detail of yours has escaped. So why didn't your members go to their natural judge, Mr. Tsipras? Why, Mr. Flambury? Why, Mr. Statakis? There's a case. There's a loose end. You yourself should seek this case to be investigated and not filed. I'm not saying right now that you've done something wrong. I don't know. But what I know is that, when a case gets into the shelf, it is natural that there are questions. So you yourself, and Mr Stathakis, had every reason to seek the waiver of immunity, to consider the case from justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u237	What waiver of immunity? To me, sir?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u238	I'm talking about Mr. Stathakis. Your case is a little more complicated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u239	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u240	Mr. Balaura, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u241	I come now, Mr. Tsipras, on your other favorite subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u242	Mr Mitsotakis, there was no request for the waiver of immunity for Mr Flamouraris.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u243	I referred to Mr Stathakis. I was very specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u244	In fact, it should be clarified. That's why I'm taking the intervention. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Please, be quiet out of here! Come on, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u245	I now come to your favourite issue in the role of the International Monetary Fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u246	Please, ladies and gentlemen! You're being watched by the gallery and children from Elias. I haven't announced it yet! That's not why you're doing it! Here you go, Mr. Mitsotakis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u247	Mr President, I will not get far. I now come to your favourite issue in the role of the International Monetary Fund. In fact, in the interview you referred to, I said that I agree with the most structural measures proposed by the fund. These are the same measures that you signed. Don't forget, you signed them. For precisely these structural measures - and I mentioned in particular the privatizations - are precisely the measures that you do not promote or, when you try to promote them, some of your ministers come to undermine them. That's what I've been talking about to restore the truth. As to the question of intercepted conversation, I have not accused anyone, Mr Tsipras. I don't know who made that interception, nor could I ever think of leaving anyone implied. I accused you of something else. I have accused you of dramating such a leak creates a negative climate which does not help to negotiate. Indeed, today I believe...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u248	The credit suffocation...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u249	Don't talk to me about credit suffocation. You caused her to go bankrupt. So please, very much!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u250	Draghi, tell us about it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u251	Where did you learn Draghi, Mr. Balaura? I'll answer for that, don't worry. So let us now come to the question of banks. Welcoming developments in today's statement by Mr Draghi. No one's gonna argue with that. However, we are asking you another question, Mr Tsipras. You're kind of messed up. We indulge you in the fact that the value of the shares held by the Financial Stability Fund had exceeded EUR 20 billion. This is Greek taxpayers' money and they went to zero with your choices. That's why we ask you to destroy the Greeks' property! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So do not confuse two disparate things, and that is why you should have every reason to want the committee of inquiry. You have not answered me yet: will you vote on this committee of inquiry, yes or no? Will you vote for it? Tell me a yes or a no. Because I still haven't received an official answer. You should have every reason to want your point of view in this committee of inquiry. Here, then, is the field of glory glorious! I expect a clear answer to this at least by the end of the debate. I'm closing up with this "caramella" for the extra measures. I imagine, when you refer to additional measures, that you mean an additional 5.3 billion. Let's get this straight. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because the 5.5 billion you bring them. If there's more than 5.5 billion, I don't know that. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u252	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-six students and three educational sessions from the 4th Municipal School of Pyrgos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Kumucaco, don't come out, please. I said not to leave the Ethiopian MPs. You will allow me to tell you exactly about the procedure and to make a substantial decision on the end. It is to speak five political leaders, in turn Mrs. Genemas, Mr. Michaeliakos, Mr. Theodorakis, Mr. Kammenos and Mr. Leventis. Also, it is the Minister to speak, Mr. Pappas. Mr. Paradise had spoken earlier. It is one of the parliamentary representatives that Mr Dendias, Mr Famelos and, possibly, Mr Pafilis should speak. There are also six Members on the single list, who will be intervened by two or three parliamentary representatives. This is a process of two to two and a half hours overall. From the speeches so far made by the rapporteurs of the parties, the parliamentary representatives and the political leaders, it is assumed, as is shown by the Minutes, that all parties have a consensus, regardless of what they see and how they see it, on the establishment and establishment of the Committee of Inquiry. And in the past there have been such procedures, we have specific committees for specific dates. This unanimous decision of Parliament, according to the Constitution, must be presumed by at least a hundred twenty Members. The Members present and present here are far beyond that figure. So if any of these men or women Members of Parliament objects, there will be no roll-call vote and we will normally proceed with our proceedings. The list will be exhausted, but there will be no roll-call vote at the end of the roll-call vote. Is there a Member or a Member opposed to the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry? Nobody.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u253	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u254	Mr. Kegeroglu, wait a minute. Just a minute, please, ladies and gentlemen, sit down. Please, have a seat! Obviously the decisions on the number, members and members of the party themselves will be taken, if they are, in the knowledge of the parties' representatives at the end. It's not the end of the process. Is that right? It's clear. I repeat, however, because there have been questions from a number of colleagues who have a job either in the region or elsewhere, that the issue of roll-call voting can now be closed if no specific response has been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u255	So the House unanimously decided, with much greater presence than a hundred and twenty, to carry out the procedure without a roll-call vote at the end. The President of the Democratic Association, Mr Generation, has the floor, please. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, all those who are going to leave to do so. We're continuing the process. Close the doors. Please, Mr Karayannides! Don't make me say names. Everyone is looking this way and not making 'gauges'. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, the country is also immersing your violin again, the project "Contract", the project "Laspes", the project "Koropowa". But nothing saves you, no diversion, no fireworks, no communication game. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] You have now reached the point of questioning the results of the parliamentary committees of inquiry. They're not going to help you get away from reality, because she's relentless. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, if you want to make sure there is quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u257	Mr President, please tell them to be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u258	Mr. President, please! The President doesn't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u259	Mr President, since you have at least made sure that the Plenary Session is dismantled before the political leaders finish their seats, at least try to hear our voice. Why don't you worry, I will make sure my voice is heard, Mr President, since you are the ones who are making sure that this House is dismantled and not heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u260	What are you doing? You were talking before and you didn't see the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u261	You're right. I'm sorry, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u262	The reality is ruthless and is not offset either by populism or by the divisive rhetoric or by the lazy ones, of course. It saves you nothing from the outcry of the Greek people. You seem to have learned nothing from last year's mistakes...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u263	Sit down! He's talking, Chief!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u264	Now will you, while we're talking, solve all the problems of your region directly with the Prime Minister? A little respect!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u265	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u266	Good, thank you. So I was saying - and I hope the time will count from the beginning - that you were not taught anything from last year's mistakes and how far back you led the country, something that the Greek people are paying today. You're a government that every day you're looking to find a hiding place to hide what you said last night, lies and mocks. Today you celebrate Draghi's decision. I would like to tell you that this decision, among other things, is a half, because it concerns banks and not Greek public bonds. Because that's what they're going to really give Greece and the market. Of course, I would remind you that this decision could have been taken a year ago, if it had not taken place in the six-month period of the previous negotiation, which led us to the catastrophic effects for both Greece and the Greek people. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] I come to the question of evaluation, which is clearly without a plan, without a prioritisation, without evaluation, without a strategy, without negotiation. You went through the shortest joke, "Tomorrow the deal is closed", said your ministers, in the new drama of the case. But if you don't understand it, we'll let you know. The Heroic Trading 2 project is not even successful in a variation suit! And, to leave jokes and be serious, I would like to put forward my strong concern about Turkey's provocative actions. I do not want to go on today, but we have to talk about this. Mr. Tsipras, take the show down before this comedy evolves into a new tragedy for Greece. You are trying to hide all your new failures behind a new enemy you are creating. Listen. Our position is given in view of the extremes which the International Monetary Fund has expressed over time. But he is here after your letter, that of Mr. Tsakalotou, of your Government. Now, however, you've all been given news in and out of Greece. You are trying to play this poor last year's work again, which after a so-called political negotiation, after seventeen, twenty-seven, thirty-seven hours, you will give it all up and send the sad one to the Greek people. You will speak again, Mr Tsipras, of great battles that have never been fought, and of great victories that have never existed. And what's left of all this? There'll be 5.5 to 6 billion euros left. That's what the Greek people will pay for. The information they see in the light of publicity - because the Minister responsible has not agreed to come to inform us in the committee of Parliament - is talking about measures for the degradation of insurance, for tax and insurance interventions and for the sale of the majority of red loans to foreign funds, which will create a serious risk of losing the first home for small and medium-sized incomes and borrowers. And it seems you have accepted all this. So I ask you, Prime Minister: why do your ministers refuse to inform the House of the course of the negotiations? Is it true that you will bring in new tax measures of EUR 3.5 billion? Have you considered that households will be despaired, while other Greek businesses will close down, with the 3,2 billion additional taxes that you are already imposing for the period 2015-2016? All right, read 'SYNEY'. But please, Prime Minister, read GEMH's data too, because the paddocks increased by 78% in the first quarter of 2016. They closed down nine thousand eight hundred twelve businesses, that is four thousand more than those opened. Yesterday he closed another big company, due to the capital controls, for which ministers tell you that they have no significant impact. And about five hundred people came out to unemployment. I would like to ask you who is affected by the increase in VAT on people's consumption. Are the hundreds of thousands of pensioners privileged to be affected by the abolition of the CSCE? Prime Minister, can you tell us what the future of the Greek people will ultimately be with these policies? What development are we talking about? Is there a development law? The Juncker Pack is an empty letter. And, of course, the public debts to third parties are hilariously increasing. The state owes a billion to public hospitals, which, of course, are currently falling short of sub-financing, sub-delegation, major shortages in material, with dozens of intensive care beds remaining closed from the dissolution of the National Health System, with your sole responsibility, Prime Minister. Answer us, who's right after all. Mr. Spirtzis and Mr. Dritsas, who are denounced that TIADE is a body of great foreign interests, or Mr. Pitsirlas, who informs us that he has your full approval of his actions? You know, it's a very serious matter of the big foreign investment and it doesn't lift up a poor circus number with you as a plain viewer. I also ask you, Prime Minister, what will finally happen with the images of the shame in Idomeni, Piraeus, in Greek? You told us earlier about the solidarity that the Greek people have shown all this time towards refugees and saved Europe's honour. Yes, but unfortunately the Greek people have a government below the circumstances, which gave an alibi to the conservative circles of Europe to close the borders and reach this decision. You signed a very bad agreement on the refugee issue, Prime Minister. At least make sure that it is implemented in accordance with international law. You are solely responsible for the total absence of the state, the lack of organisation and coordination. What do you have to tell us about foreign press reports that claim you left only one employee to examine eight hundred and thirty-three asylum applications in Chios, so that they have only answered ten so far? What do you have to say to us that, from 20 March to today, only three hundred and twenty-five immigrants have been reintroduced to Turkey from the islands? Unfortunately, only on paper do we have a government because, Mr Tsipras, you have become an NGO, NGO SYRIZA - ANEL, which is also uncontrolled. You have not completely lost control of the situation in refugees and you cannot today guarantee either health or safety for Greek citizens or refugees. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the question of the committee of inquiry. We told you from the outset: If you want an examination of the parties' loans, we will support it. And that is what we will do today, because we have nothing to fear, we have nothing to hide! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We have first opened the issues of transparency in the parties. And that's what you're coming in late, you're coming in second. I would point out, of course, that this examination will attempt unprecedented, and it will deal with issues that have long been investigated by justice. But I think today's debate is worthy of distinguishing myths from the truth. Because, yes, the Greek people need to get answers. And we must give clean and not selective answers if we want the political system to regain credibility. There are questions from the citizens, which are concrete and reasonable. Was there too much loan? Yes, there was. Is there any good? No, there was a bad thing, you pussy. Who's this over loan? It's about all the parties. It also concerns SYRIZA, who, with unprecedented hypocrisy, disappeared from the text his name, his party. I'll speak clearly about PASOK. It was in fact borrowed up to 2010 in large amounts. It was a consequence of the drastic reduction in the state subsidy to the parties and of the party's choice to have clear resources, a reduction that reached 75%. Today, from this reduced state grant that counts for us, only 40% enters the party's funds. 60% of the grant goes to the banks to repay the loans. But don't listen to claims like those in the SYRIZA text on the examination, which relate the parties' loans to a crisis that reached a deficit of EUR 35 billion in 2009 and a public debt of hundreds of billions. Just think of how much consideration must be given to your own policy, gentlemen of SYRIZA, who charged the Greek people, with the unnecessarily important memorandum, with a new EUR 90 billion loan, with measures of EUR 14 billion, which will be repaid by the Greeks over the next three years. Officially, and you announced that a thousand four hundred thirty-thirty-one projects will eventually be paid out from national resources. Why? Because this money was lost by the NSRF in 2013. I would like to put forward the details of the question asked by our competent Member, Odyssey Constantinople, and the answer given by the Minister responsible. [[At this point the President of the PASOK Democrat Association - DIMAR Mr Fotini Generations submits for the minutes the above mentioned information, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] But there is something much more important. PASOK proceeded to a move without a precedent. It is the only one of all parties, which commissioned the investigation of its finances to the six largest auditors currently operating in the country. Their finding has been in the hands of justice since May 2014, that is for twenty-three months. So we can look the Greek citizens in the eyes and tell them that PASOK dared, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We made drastic cuts, respected and the last euro. We limited our expenditure by 96%. So that hypocrisy ends, that slanders and falsehoods end for PASOK’s finances, and let them look first in the mirror for those who today move our finger. Clear words, Mr Tsipras, not like those you have been used to for fifteen months. From this step I challenge all the parties in this House to move forward and to do the same. I am pleased that you have said so before, that you are following the way we have opened, and I hope that this will not be left to talk to you again at the Step of this House. So I challenge all parties to order internal control with reliable companies, to give the prosecutor the findings, and then let us compare and talk again in this House. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Of course, we must at long last dare also discuss the question of the funding of the parties. I propose that there should be a committee, with members of all the parties, which should end up with a framework proposal, within a very tight timeframe, and adopt it from this House. As far as the media loans are concerned, we must of course look into them. In addition, justice is already investigating and has already issued relevant findings on many occasions. We must look at them, with a view, of course, not to repeat these negative phenomena in the future. Because, it is easy for the general attacks on interlocutory, but what do we see? Your executives and ministers are first table - track on intermittent channels, as you say. And to point out that the management of the government, both on the issue of media licensing and the undermining of the National Broadcasting Council, does not tell us that you do indeed intend to resolve it. But, on the contrary, you're dreaming of a status check. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people have the right to know with names and addresses. Because I am now confident that SYRIZA does not really want transparency and disclosure of the truth. Because, Prime Minister, you and Mr Mitsotakis have forged indifferently four months since the Group of the Democratic Alliance tabled a proposal for a committee of inquiry on economic issues. And today you are trying to get the committees of inquiry involved. And how many, anyway, will happen? We say that we should discuss in this House what the governments' policies were after 2001, which part of the responsibility each one bears against the crisis and the Greek people. We must learn the truth about the crisis in 2008-2009, about the deficit of EUR 35 billion - and I repeat, in order to give it up - and the monstrous outburst of debt. You are still not saying a word about it, Prime Minister. We say that we need to talk about whether there were alternative policies to address the risk of bankruptcy in 2009, what is the real result of the PSI and, finally, how we arrived in 2015 in capital controls, in the third toughest memorandum and in the new bank recapitalisation. Here, then, is a glorious field for transparency lovers. Our own votes do not come to set up a committee of inquiry and discuss this issue in the House. Whoever dares, whoever has nothing to hide, whoever really cares to know the truth, let us vote on our proposal. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Trading isn't a card, Mr. Tsipras. We have proposed that all of you move together, without asterisks, without exceptions for special periods. Because each one of you excludes a period. That is why you do not want to agree on the overall investigation of the economy. Although now, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and of the New Democracy silence, the Greek people will draw valuable conclusions, very useful for how intimate you are. And I ask: are you? Ladies and gentlemen, if something has been proved in these fifteen months of SYRIZA - ANEL governance, it is that problems are not solved with lies. The lies have very close legs and Greece needs large and firm steps to finally be able to come out of the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u267	Thank you to Mrs Fotini Generations, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Independence of PASOK - DIMAR. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty students and students and three teachers from Mavrochori High School Kastoria and Korissos Gymnasios Kastoria. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the Group of the European People's Party - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michalios, has the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask everyone who comes out of the Chamber to come out. The rest of you be absolutely quiet. Here, Mr. Michaloliaco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a committee of inquiry is proposing that the Government on parties' finances and media finances, canals. The question is, first of all, whether this committee of inquiry will have substance, because when you hear the President of the New Democracy Kyriakos Mitsotakis accept the proposal and when the President of the Democratic Partnership - why, really, is the word PASOK avoided? I shall refer to the following - Mrs Gennamata says 'we have nothing to fear', which is what it says. If anyone has nothing to fear when he owes a hundred and fifty million, then there is something rotten in that country. I hope that the committee of inquiry and justice will object to what has been said, because someone must be afraid if he has received a hundred fifty and a hundred million out of the Greek people's misery, because that was the money of the Greek banks. She said earlier, Mrs. Gennamas, that all parties have borrowed from the banks. That's a lie. They have not borrowed the parties elected in 2015, because they did not have this possibility, namely Potami and the Centro Union, and they have not borrowed from the parties that are from 2012 only one party, the Golden Dawn. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Not only that, but in a way completely illegal and unconstitutional, funding has been cut off, but it stands up, as you know, and it is doing its job. Let us come to the debts of the channels. I shall mention a few numbers which really should be awesome. We have the "MEGA", "DOL", "PEGASOS", "TELETYPOS", "IRIS AEBE". They owe 451.5m euros. They owe more than the port of Piraeus. The port of Piraeus sold 368 million. Bobollas and his company owes more. "ANDENNA", "MAKEDONIA TV", 170 million, while it cost half the port of Piraeus. "SKAI", "KATHMERINI", 105 million. ‘STAR’, EUR 56.6 million. 'ALPHA', 14.7 million. Total debts by SMEs, 808m euros, twice as much as the port of Piraeus was sold and many times more than all the airports of the country were sold. But to get them all to owe so much, some governments left them. In fact, the Prime Minister said earlier, with reference to the new law on television licences, that the country will be created "accuracy". Fifteen months took it to find the light? In any case, what will happen? If you do not permit the MEGA, will we have bankruptcy which is not considered to be a dormant since you have removed their license and thus go to the impunity? On the substance, about the complexity of this 'punishment' that has been torturing the country's public life for decades, all those who are the major shareholders of the channels have parallel economic activities. “Mega’s Bobola” has a construction company. Mr Nikoloudis is not at the headquarters of the Government anymore, who said that five times as much as a road in the European Union would cost Greece. Aren't there going to be any checks on these things? Everyone has parallel functions. How are you gonna get that money? Aren't you going to give them permission and close the channels and everything good and good? And what about the natural persons who have these channels? Will they not pay their debts when they have extremely profitable activities? So this is, in fact, a fraud. Mr Mitsotakis said earlier that we should put sworn accountants and examine the finances of the New Democracy and examine SYRIZA's finances. The sworn accountants came to us two weeks ago. Why do the sworn accountants go to the only party that does not receive a state grant? In all the others that receive state grant and owe hundreds of millions of dollars they don't go. And since we are talking about the debts of the parties, will it be checked how these debts were created? Because, for some time, even in the New Democracy and in PASOK, there were wages for party officials exceeding EUR 10,000. Is that what justice will consider? Are we going to see how they were created? There are invoices in the New Democracy, such as the famous Mauritius of "ACROPOLIS", which are crumbs. There are invoices to communications companies of 700,000 euros. Will these things be checked? Is there going to be justice? Of course, the New Democracy has recently served in a propaganda campaign of impression that only causes laughter. Among other things, its President, Mr Mitsotakis, has referred to the party's finances - and I will present the documents to you next - at the wages of the MPs. He reminded us of an old Member of the New Democracy - he has not been elected to this House - who said that he will "do his dipyrite faeces", not to say the vulgar expression which is relevant. Mr Mitsotakis sent a letter to the Members of the Group of the European People's Party, which I tabled on the Minutes, saying that over 10% of the wage withholding will be retained in order to settle the party's finances. And we come in the language of numbers, because the Prime Minister said that at this rate New Democracy will pay off in eighty years. No, it's not right. He'll never pay off, and I'm becoming specific: The salary is 5,579 euros without the committees. This is the clearing house that I have, which I am presenting to you and which applies to all. 15% is 836 euros, for seventy-fifths of our Members is EUR 62,763 and for twelve months we have reached 753,000. EUR 750,000 per year is not served by a EUR 200 million loan when only its interest rate is on average 5%. Only the New Democracy interest rate to pay off its debt is EUR 10 million a year. So they won't pay off in eighty years. They'll never pay off. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michalliakos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I would like to know how courageous one needs to have to say to the Greek people, to the ordinary Greek citizen who is in danger of losing his home that he will never pay off. What happened? Is there a class of patriots called a party and whose simple people we're taking home to? However, Mrs Gennama said earlier - and no one commented on the point - that after 2010 she stopped receiving loans. That's a lie. In 2012, when the memorandum had already begun and at a time of limited liquidity, when the banks were unable to finance mortgages and other types of loans, the parties to the government coalition, the New Democracy and the PASOK received 30 million euro bank funding. And since I spoke about the loans of the parties, we can only look back in April 2013 at this shameful law, which was tabled, which, with an amendment tabled in due course and voted in favour at the beginning of April 2013, was exempted from criminal liability by the administrations of the banks that provided loans of EUR 270 million to parties and loans to institutions and NGOs. In particular, Article 78 of Law No 4146/2013 states: ‘It does not constitute an infidelity within the meaning of Articles 256 and 390 of the Penal Code for the President, the members of the Board of Directors and the staff of the banks, the conclusion of loans of all kinds with a legal person governed by private law of a non-profit-making nature’. We're talking about a photographic device. I'm asking. SYRIZA along with the Independent Greeks is fifteen months in power. Why have you not abolished this law yet? Why even today when the discussion is taking place or in the next bill that will come there will not be an amendment that will repeal this law? Of course, this is where we come to the whole process. A party representative is going to ask for a loan from a bank. How is the whole drama developing? The banker tells him, the bank manager: “What guarantees do you give me?” He replied: ‘The future financing’. And automatically there were prophets and bank managers and party executives. And they calculated that they would get 30 million and 40 million funding and that would be guaranteed. But the New Democracy does not owe just PASOK. And the Single Coalition had then taken loans, which are less than 10 million. Indeed, for a loan of 6 million from the National Bank, which it had received, it had a mortgage on the Koumoundouros building, which in no case was worth EUR 6 million. Therefore, a committee of inquiry should be carried out on the finances of all parties. Let me not refer to the JRC. The story of the Falsethodomy, a graphic type that had sold to a naive provincial acropolis, is known. So the JRC sold not to a naive provincial, but to an offshore company a public frequency for which it had not given a penny and which does not belong. And it was raised here by the competitor, the Rabbi MEP, in the House. He didn't get a reply. As we have not received an answer to all the transactions that have been made in the blurred landscape of all these botanists and botanists, which are soaking the public life of the country. Mr Mitsotakis advertises that he will house his party, that he will pay out 200 million euros by giving EUR 2,400,000, which is 60 % of the party grant and about 750,000 that he will get from the MPs. So more than 3 million when only the interest rate is 10 million. He's lying. Only with a miracle comparable to the one in a marriage can it be possible to make this debt known. What happens in this case? What happens in the case of PASOK that takes much less money and owes almost 150 million? The PASOK has started not to leave - Democratic Association - do we have any mergers and debt write-offs, as is the case with football clubs? But then PASOK will have to be subtracted to the Third National. This is the only way in which the Law 99 applies to football clubs. Of course a word from the New Democracy. It is only prompted when he hears the name 'Papastaros'. I would also remind her former President and Prime Minister Samaras' statement, 'I wish we had ten Papastaurus.' I really wish PASOK hadn't had a Tsukato, had ten Tsukatos, 'cause he might not have owed it. Because if the millions were to be brought in packages from ‘SIEMENS’, then it would be better. I also want to state publicly that the Golden Dawn - one day before our arrest - has submitted a reference to the Arele Ice for the PASOK for all economic scandals, describing it as a criminal organisation. This case went to two felony judges, who returned it. He then objected to a prosecutor. Some people changed the D.A. And do you know who they put in the case? The same guy that took the sound documento Samara. These, having fresh memories of justice and transparency. There is something very rotten in the kingdom of Danimarky and about the debts of the parties, which are not going to be paid back any examinations, unless one decides to give true justice to this place and, of course, with the great scandal of the media, along with parallel workers, contractors, armaments, etc., which led to this great debt. Golden Dawn will fight with boldness for justice in this place, for thieves to go to prison!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u269	We move on to the next speaker who is the President of the Potamio Parliamentary Group, Stavros Theodorakis. Mr. Theodorakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u270	The country is evolving, ladies and gentlemen. And we have reached the day that SYRIZA MPs applaud the reports to Mario Draghi. Interesting. And, of course, a question was resolved by the Prime Minister's speech: and the Pope votes for SYRIZA - ANEL! [[Applause from the river wing]] Let all the drama heroes congratulate them in Lesvos or Mytilini: Mrs Christodoulopoulos, Mr Dritsa, Mr Toska, Mr Kammenos. But to be serious about what immigration policy are we talking about? Have you been informed, Mr. Tsipras, what is happening in Piraeus, in the great port of the country, what is happening in Idomeni, what is happening in Chios, Lesvos? Chaos, the exploitation of refugees, insecurity and uncertainty for the locals. The extremists are having a party. You dare go or finally send a Member, because they do not appear to speak with local communities, with people who are tired of offering, offering everything and the government not offering anything. And give some time - since you want to report on the refugee and migration all the time - and some response to the millions of hot spots flying and to Mr Flambury's phone calls in Chios. Look out! Watch out what Chios says. He says Mr Flamouraris does not carry out any checks on IKA, because contractors have a national duty, a patriotic duty, which in this case is estimated at EUR 1,300 000. We are, however, going to the parties' loans today, to SMEs' loans. I want to tell you the story of a bank. The mighty commander of a big bank is hemipley and the lieutenant takes over. The first visit the sub-command accepts is one of the party leaders of one of the two largest parts of the country. And the parties, of course, are asking the sub-government for financial support, because they are approaching elections, they have empty funds, the previous ones are running five years and they have taken money from everyone. But the lieutenant refuses. ‘Neither one or five for political purposes’. "But the commander has always given us," is the reasonable question of the parties. "But I don't," the lieutenant insists. Of course, for the bank we're talking about, about the story I'm telling you, the chief commander didn't only help the parties, he was helping both newspapers and journalists. The bank retained a peculiar budget called ‘advertising costs’. In fact, it was money that they went to their own journalists and to their own newspapers to write good words and not to bother the bank. The lieutenant breaks that down, too. To not be surprised, all of this happens only in novels. The bank was the commercial supply bank and the indiscriminate lieutenant was Vassilis Carlovich Yugerman. Hilarious 1939. Not to think that triangles of sin are an invention only of postmultiple. Ladies and gentlemen, the river has spent 100,000 euros in the European elections. In January's national elections, the River spent 395 000 euros. In the September elections, the river spent 480,000 euros. They are reasonable sums covered by state funding, by the contributions of my own trials and Members and by the contributions and coupons of our friends. But be careful, because I heard a lot of interesting things from the previous leaders in here. We have provided this information with publicity. I specifically ask: is there another party that has published all its electoral expenditure? How much money did the power parties spend in the last elections? When are we going to find out? The suggestions are not good, but I believe that today, if we are honest and talking about the loans of the parties, about political money and about the money that goes to the media, the political leaders instead of general koruna should start with a small financial statement: 'That's how much we spent in the last elections'. But we - take care - that we do not need loans and suspicious funding, we do not have party offices anywhere in Greece. Nowhere. We do not, of course, fill towns with posters - by the way, we observe the law - we do not make expensive tours and our expenses are covered by each other's pockets. I have referred once again to something that hurts Athens, as well as to the public feeling of waste. How much does the multiple decoy of all Athens cost? How much does it cost to put sandwiches on all your country's posters, something that's illegal, of course, but it's eclipsing the political leaders? And above all, where are all these millions? Who's giving the money? We ask people who have them and who spend them. Reply for party loans, total and official, we haven't taken, how much is and which party has got what. In 2011 it had been calculated and then it seemed too much to us. There was an article by Mr. Alvizatou in 2011, which said that the two, then, major power parties, PASOK and New Democracy, owed banks 235 million. Now, some are counting on the total - take care - of the parties' debt to the banks at 400 million. The conclusion of the Bank of Greece in 2013 was about debts of 272 million. And within this finding, gentlemen of SYRIZA, he said SYRIZA owed banks 8.3 million drachmas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u271	Euro. It's 8.5m euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u272	I'm sorry, you're right, Mr. Voutsi. If they were drachmas, we'd all be happy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u273	The Prime Minister said so too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u274	No, I say that if we are to turn the parties' loans into drachmas, it will probably be voted on unanimously by the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u275	There's gonna be another kind of problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u276	As long as we don't get back to the drachma.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u277	This conclusion, therefore, of the Bank of Greece, said SYRIZA owed 8.5m euros. So, SYRIZA is being borrowed both before a crisis and after a crisis. And I think 2014 was SYRIZA's last loan, 1.5 million from the National Bank. It is not much compared to the tens of millions of old power parties. Look, however, it was at a time - we're talking about 2014 - that the lending, in fact, had closed down for businesses and private individuals. The loans to the parties, however, continued because the parties and the party state have always had privileged relations with the banks. No one was considering whether the parties were reliable to obtain loans and there was no investigation of the real image of assets - liabilities. The only criterion up to 2014 for a loan to be granted was future state funding. What they wanted, what they wanted to get. They are obviously not responsible for the loan orders. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, some have taken it. Who are they and where are they now? They're waiting for them to be ministers at some point and resurrected the country, or have you expelled them? We want - and we are clear - concrete data from the parties that have ruled - and from SYRIZA on the loans they have taken and where they have gone. Because if the managers of a company had taken these loans on these terms, now these managers would either have left the country or would have been in prison, as would the bank managers who gave these loans. Democracy requires transparency. Democracy requires individual liability and penalties. And that is not what the parties that have been ruling have done, and it does not seem that SYRIZA is prepared to do so too. That is what we say, self-criticism about past mistakes. That is what we ask of the parties that managed the fates of the country. Of course, it wasn't just the loans. They were also the subsidies from state funds that were scandalous. We are talking about 1 billion in total grant. Some say 825 million. It's too much money, even for this political system. Both years - it is important - before the memorandum, when the country smelled of bankruptcy, when all the great collapsed, 64 million were allocated in 2008 and 68 million in 2009. But let's go to the other top of the sinful triangle, the media, and their funding. Nor do we know how much loans to SMEs are. A survey of a newspaper last October - which seemed to be leaking from a political office - was uploading the media loans to 808 million and informing us that there was a whole file on the media credit and business liabilities of the government. We are therefore asking that this dossier should not remain in the drawer of a minister, where it will be selectively recovered what is necessary to strike an opponent of the government. We're asking that file to come to the House, see all the evidence. Let's see who they got the loans, which terms they got, where they are, how they are served and what managers and what SME shareholders they have enriched, while the media that were running are bankrupt. However, this is another thing that needs to be done, but the answers we need to give the Greek people and other things to show some of the evidence - particularly the data on non-cooperatives - and not to say what the full picture is. We believe that Mr Tsipras' initiatives and on this issue are a pretext. He's trying to create impressions. And I say this because fourteen months ago, in February 2015, in the debate on the first programming statements, I called on the government to break triangular policy-minded-bank relationships, public funds-related relationships and distort information. Because - and we should admit it - the sinner of political - media - banks have developed economic and social development. He's distorted her. Banks that help SMEs, SMEs that help politicians, politicians that help bankers. But these - and I want to do a parentheses - are not just Greek phenomena. Lepen - another populism - for years supported his presence in the slogan, "all the others are corrupt". And now - be careful - the Panama documents are coming that indicate that Lepen's people have made a lot of money out. And the question is being investigated by French justice. Did you notice the evidence provided in public with this leak? Twelve ex-State and now Heads of State are running out in Panama Papers - twelve Heads of State! - as well as a hundred and twenty-eight politicians or direct political associates around the world. Who are the Greeks in these documents? Some names have been heard, but we don't have a full picture. According to the world map that leaked - I don't know if you've seen it - Greece has two hundred and twenty-three companies in these documents and sixty-four individuals. Who are they and who are they linked to politics? We call on the government to ask for public access to all documents concerning Greeks in this last leak, so that we can see who is involved, stop whispers and leaks and Parliament, if possible, as National Representation to ask for full access to the figures of all Greeks. Be careful, however, because the issue of corruption and political money is much wider than local lending. I don't know if you're watching the Spanish newspapers, gentlemen of the government. So I read in translation recently, something very interesting. I read that your Podemos friends are accused of taking 7 million from a foreign government, a foreign government that is unexplainable to us, perhaps reasonable to you... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You'll hear them. Patience. So a government that I was unexplained for us - we do not know why - it seems to your favourite governments is the Venezuelan Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u278	That's an old man.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u279	There's new evidence. I'll tell you. Don't be in a hurry. It is a country that has also been visited by the Prime Minister, it is a country that has also been visited by Ms. Duru and Mr. Quissy, to see the achievements of Mr. Chaves. It is a country that George Tsipras visited last April, apparently looking for alternative sources of funding, as some are whispering. Of course, in a country where toilet paper was in a newspaper...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u280	Ladies and gentlemen, please do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u281	Ladies and gentlemen, because you say you don't know the story, you know it all. There was that resignation of Juan Carlos Montedero. Do you know him? He is the head of strategic planning for Podemos, who was revealed to have taken half a million - 425 000 to be precise - from Latin American governments. Of course, the answer - and Greek politicians who have been caught with money in their pockets - have also been 'for consultative services'. "The half the money..." - he said - "...I gave it to the party. They were not all mine." Half the 425,000. Eventually the same things happen everywhere. Of course, Mr Iglesias denies that he was financed by the Venezuelan Government, but the Spanish Financial Crime Service continues and we should wait for the decisions. Although some old friends in "AGE" have already taken their conclusions and are talking about fake items, fake documentaries. When the cases that are being investigated are about our friends, they're fake. LIBERATION, however, we have some reason to have a little more trust, wrote eight days ago in a large front page, "Podemos are accused of illegal financing". But I return to the humble Greek reality with some proposals. What are we asking for? We call for public relations and communication funds to be cut. What's HICP gonna do with the money right now? What's to advertise? What can the Ministries do with this crisis that we are forced to cut pensions? Why should we have money to communicate with the ministries? What's behind this? Because here in Greece there is - and we have all admitted it - we are all saying it for others - a different phenomenon, that is, the parties. We have the state, we have the businesses, and we have the parties. And I am not talking about the official parties, about the 'RIZOPASTI', about 'AGE'. These are welcome. I'm talking about newspapers and websites living under the favor of the state, living under the wings of each government. An army of such means today supports SYRIZA and ANEL, mainly online, the Lasopoules and the Vaxebanes, to get just the two ends of the country's populism. Who nourishes them all? Who nourishes these publications? Who nourishes these websites? Who's paying for it? We revealed - and it's not the time to say details - that newspaper publisher and site managers are now government officials, they've been hired to the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of Press.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u282	Who are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u283	For the site olympia.gr.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u284	Is he getting a euro advertisement?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u285	Is he your employee?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u286	A euro has been taken?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u287	Mr. Kammene, allow me, because you're making a very big mistake that you're interfering with right now. So you accept that she is your government official and ask if there is advertising.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u288	Has he taken a euro?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u289	No, Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u290	You'll tell the truth here. You guys got it for your show.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u291	Say it. Say it. You'll be exposed. Is he your government employee?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u292	He hasn't taken a single euro from the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u293	Minister, you don't have the floor. You'll take the floor later and you'll talk. You don't have the floor now. Then you'll talk. It's your turn anyway. Mr. Theodorakis, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u294	Take note of what has happened, ladies and gentlemen. When we said that we have evidence that some publishers and site managers are government officials, we were told "receive information". We bring evidence, we bring names and they tell us now - did you hear what Mr. Kammenos said? - "Beyond their wages, is there anything else they've taken from the Greek state?" So we accept that we can have government officials the publishers, government officials the site managers and go to the case if they've got public ads. And because they've got public ads, we'll come back with concrete evidence. I like you getting to the point of defending even nationalist, racist sites. How far away are we going to see from some SYRIZA MPs? At last, look at this. [[Applause from the river wing]] Allow me, I do not like to talk to these tones, but get out of the way, see the site, which I am referring to, and then applaud these interventions by Mr Kammenos. How low are you finally going to fall?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u295	Please complete your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u296	My authorities have not been imprisoned for a chair like yours. In order to believe, therefore, Mr Tsipras's argument that we want answers for the processions of others, there should be no new procession. That's the point. We are also asking for something else, ladies and gentlemen, which no one has pointed out. The case of party financing is distorted. Note what is happening: The state does not clearly define the amount that a party will get and does not set the time it will get. What does that mean? It means that there is a timeframe that is constantly postponed and that creates the conditions for the parties to seek out funding to fill gaps from some funding that will come or will not come. Finishing, what does the river ask for? Simple things: we are calling for transparency and rules on party expenditure, transparency and rules on political money, transparency and rules on media funding, transparency and rules on state advertising, transparency and rules on the funds of ministries that employ journalists. Give all the names of journalists paid by the state. That is what we are asking for, and I have also asked for thirty years as a journalist. [[Applause from the river wing]] However, all of this, ladies and gentlemen, requires - to have answers, in other words, transparency and rules - that SYRIZA and ANEL will not continue to act as conquerors to the state, to justice, to public administration and to the independent authorities. Because we have to accept this: the party state of yesterday, yes, and the party state of today is what gives birth and will continue to give rise to sinful triangles and sinful funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u297	The President of the Group of Independent Greeks, Mr Panagiotis Kammenos, has the floor. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u298	Ladies and gentlemen, since the President of the Potamio has dealt with the Amazon, we will deal with the Greek reality better, which would be perfectly understandable to the Greek people if he were to see what is happening now in Parliament. In fact, if the camera comes back to the House, it will see that the Census is represented by a Member of Parliament who is to her honor. A congressman! A Committee of Inquiry is set up for parties' loans, the Committee of Inquiry into the financing of parties and the Qualifications Committee is present by a Member, neither the rapporteur nor the parliamentary representative. And that shows that the attempt to degrade the truth in this House for so many years for funding is an end today and the committee of inquiry and we are not going to do back to the media, which had learned headlines threatening the parties at any time either of power or of opposition. What's the truth? Grants from New Democracy - PASOK from 1999 to today. They took 301 million New Democracy and 296 million PASOK from grants, without the Foundations. The total is EUR 597 million. Loans from New Democracy and PASOK: It is EUR 244 million. The revenues were EUR 841 million from 1999 to 2015. If you put the revenue and the institutions and the other declared revenues, you reach the EUR 1.2 billion that New Democracy and PASOK received. I, too, say this because I am sure that neither of the Members of the New Democracy nor of the PASOK nor of course the other parties have never been informed of this money that was going to the parties. This money, the 1.2 billion of the two parties, where did they go? Are there any documents? This is the first question of the examination. Are there any documents for the 1.2 billion of the two major parties? The answer is no, there is no excuse, on the one hand, that Mr Venizelos has asked for the control of Mr Papandreou and the other excuse is that the accounts with sworn accountants have been closed, but the investigation into the financing of the parties is going somewhere else. It goes on to whom the indirect funding was. The indirect funding given by 2% of SIEMENS, as evidenced by the Christofos, where did it go? Who published parties coupons and how many of them were destroyed after they were issued? How will the New Democracy collect the money to pay the instalments? It is 200 million if only interest is paid per year, which is the state grant. How will they be paid? What did Mr. Mitsotakis say? By 2018. From 2018 onwards, what will happen? Isn't the entire grant going? They're going to be given 301 million by the banks with the prospect that sometime he can get 40% back, so can he start paying back the interest alone? Here too, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that there is parallel - and this is the great strength of this examination - media research. The Prime Minister spoke earlier on the subject of the CEDEFOP. When the CCP topic brought it to the U.S.S.S.S.A., I submitted a list, which came to me through CCP to investigate, without leaking it to the press, there was a battle. Journalists who so far had friendly relations with them and who had good cooperation became my greatest enemies. Evangelatos from newsIt.gr and from onAlert.gr swears on me from morning till night. So is his wife through a social show she's got. Why? Because I submitted to the list of names given to me by CEDEFOP and his name. What's up with the CDC? What are the advertising companies they were taking to advertise what? Was there any companies that advertised the CCI to deal with cancer? Is cancer sticky? Is cancer an epidemic? Who were those who took over the CEDEFOP campaigns? Who were they - and we open them up - who took over and paid the PPC campaigns? Why was H.N.A. been advertised for so many years? For the U.S.A. monopoly, for the water, who got the ads? Be sure that all the list of blackmailers, whether small or large, Mauritius or not, is right in there. And not only that, but you will see that by chance all these blackmailers are given special service. Chios's wife, who makes headlines in makeleio.gr and from morning until night she exalted us, because I didn't give him the grand grand every month he wanted, to pay for his protection - a pimp - works in a public information service. Who else is working? What relatives of journalists and publishers? Let's see what the evidence was about banks giving guarantees. I would first like to make it clear that the Independent Greeks have not taken a single euro. Not one. I made a mistake in 2012, because they didn't give us the annual funding, because the law said it wasn't with the election result, but you'll get a grant depending on how much you had on January 1st of the year for which it's estimated. That is, for 2012, we did not get a single euro. So I made the mistake and asked for 25,000 euros so that we could make the movement's expenses. The Bank of Greece intervened and banned 25,000 euros from being granted, although I also gave a personal guarantee with real estate. At the same time, I hear they gave 30,000,000 euros. Where and where? Who are they who gave them and who are they who took them? I would agree with the proposal which has been retroactively heard to abolish this amendment. But in criminal law, unfortunately, the most favourable regulation is always the case. I have no objections, however, if we find the legal formula, to go along with that. And because we have to go a little further, let's go see what's going on with the European parties. Which parties took money from European parties? How much did the European People's Party give to the Socialist Party, how much did the other parties give all these years? Because I know that the old Euro-election campaigns were all funded. Where are the invoices? Where's the money? These EUR 15 million - Mr Kegeroglu, I am afraid I do not see Mr Venizelos with us today - who have found cash, as Mr Venizelos said, at the PASOK fund and has ordered control of where they went? Where did the cash go? Where'd the cass go? Cash how did he produce evidence? All this, then, needs to be considered. And because last time - because I have something in debt - there was a lot of talk here about Eurojust's prosecutor's theme, she replied that the case-file 'SIEMENS' and all the data have been put in since 2008 - that is, after Parliament's examination - and the issue of submarines since 2010 in Eurojust. I ask, then, in particular: what are the elements that have not gone and what have not been informed of the case-file of 'SIEMENS'? Why hasn't it been briefed? The proof is very simple, and I would like at this point to congratulate the journalist Yianna Papadakou publicly on the research he has done and was not allowed to publish it. And here is Mr. Mitsotakis' dilemma. Mr. Tendas, I would be happy to be answered as a parliamentary representative. Jurisdiction of ‘SIEMENS’, file of Karavela, document number of the case-file 120222. From the hotel "Baur Au Lac" - in a personal note by Mr Karavela confiscated and part of the case-file, but not deposited in Eurojust and an element of two specific boxes - Mr Karavelas is asked to submit to Credit Suisse Private Bank in Zurich under an account number 087979738621-2, the code "ANIXI" and 087973862210, the code "ANIXI", money...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u299	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u300	Obviously, Mr. Nicolopoulos. Money that would lead? They would lead to the combination of the Christmas deposit that said "from what I remember, I also gave at that time to a small party", and we would probably have reached Hong Kong, which is used to speak now by Mr Samaras and to find out what the courses of money are. These data have never been entered into the case-file of ‘SIEMENS’ and these data have not been provided for the existence of a combination with Eurojust. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] And I submit it to the House as the first element in the committee of inquiry. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Because then, at that time, he also entered money. I'm with you. I have no doubt as to whether you want to investigate it. Let's go see then and for Spring Policy what Constantine Mitsotakis said about how Mitsotakis government was thrown by Antonis Samaras. He was talking about interests they paid for! He was talking about PPC! He was talking about OTE! Here's Rhodes, behold, and fuck! So let's go open up everything and see about the course of the money. What other accounts have never been deposited? Why was Caravella on the move and still on the loose? What about the Christmasman? Has the court been ordered to assist? But, of course, none of this happened. The credibility of the political system depends on this committee of inquiry, which is unfortunately ignored by many and many colleagues and ignores it not because they are directly involved. I am sure that none of the Members, especially the old people I knew, had anything to do with such funding. That's what was going on in the lead stadiums. But the Greek people now want an answer. Where did the 1.2 billion whites go and how much blacks? Because there were too many black and black money coming from political relatives. I have listened carefully today - and I am sorry for that - to Mr Mitsotakis to support Mr Papastavrous. Mr. Papastaurou is not a political official. Apart from being on all lists, Mr. Papastavrou is also a company shareholder with many and many. Last week they submitted a company of Mr. Papastavrous with Mr. Matthew King since 2003, who was by chance in 2013, when Papastavros came to things, he took the "KAVAL OIL". The day before yesterday, when I asked Mr Venizelos if there were shares of Mr. Vegeopoulos in his relatives, he certainly did not answer, but he called me "true bulbour". I searched for the blog "Marfin INVESTMENT BANK HOLDINGS/INVESTMENT GROUP HOLDINGS SA" and found four relatives of Mr Venizelos who are main shareholders. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But come on down, seeing the rest of the shareholders, I find another name. And what name is that? It's the name of Mr. Papastaurou's partner. All together a hug! That's why there's coverage from one another! That is why we are 'fucking bumps' of those who speak and those who survived by speaking! Because many colleagues spoke of many parties and disappeared. They disappeared from the House and from the face of the earth! Because the Papastaurou were all middlemen. The big living room became the "dalaveri"! And, of course, this 'dalaver' was not only in cash. It was not only with a guarantee of tonsils received by the “DOL” 156 million euros. He was a tonsilagine, who had given the late Kakaunakis the Lamprakis, and which the late Kakaunakis returned to "DOL", made the "DOL" guarantee three times and took 156 million. Such an almond is nowhere in the world!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u301	He made cravings!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u302	But, Nico, they're going to become a brunette. And the point is that we all have to do it, because we will all be victims of the system if this system is not hit. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] So find out who took the loans. To find out who bought and what sales and more of all, all of them send them to the Special Court. And if there are parties - which are parties - who have repented of having to bear the information themselves and put all these elements down and tell the truth to the Greek people, tell the Greek people who were connected and what media. I have heard the President of the Potamius, who referred to the Amazon, Chaves and so on, say that with 100 million elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u303	A hundred thousand!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u304	How many? A hundred thousand? Giorgos, with 100 thousand euros I make an election, if the "MEGA" plays me from morning to night, "ANDENA" has me from breakfast to dinner and even the small channels all night long suck my name! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Do you remember how many times the Potami campaign was from free hospitality to the presence of the Independent Greeks, when we were born together? Can I talk to you? One to fourteen. That's not what I'm saying. It's called the PSE. The PSE is answering for the promotion of each party. I wish they'd play me from morning to night too. How many headlines did you get? How many headlines did you get in Sunday papers?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u305	We're good, that's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u306	We're good and they know us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u307	Oh, you're good. So here, ladies and gentlemen, we are just coming to the historic crossroads of good and evil. So what we promise you, the government of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks, is that on this path of good and evil the hero from the wheat will stand out and the Greek people will know who the pimps who controlled the Migration were, who they and what their privileged relations with the banks and the publishers were. And know that we are neither threatened nor afraid of anyone. We will finally proceed, because this is the mandate of the Greek people. Elections in 2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u308	Thank you Mr Panagiotis Kammenos, Minister of National Defence and President of the Group of Independent Greeks. Mr Vassilis Leventis has the floor. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u309	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today the second part of the show has been shown in the Chamber. The first part is the debate we had a few days ago, which we expected inconsistent names and evidence. Today, in Mr Tsipras' speech and in Mr Mitsotakis' speech, we have encountered some complaints about you. Mr. Mitsotakis said that SYRIZA has also taken loans. That's how I figured it out. He showed a card related to SYRIZA's loans when it was a smaller party in 2010. So what do we condemn the loans? Because it used to be a lot bigger funding than that. The loans were therefore extra funding. Isn't that right? So imagine what campaigns were going on. That's why they call me from Stuttgart and tell me: "Would you have planes to bring people to vote?" [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] I say, "What money, guys? What is it?’ And they say to me: "The New Democracy, the PASOK, all of them, put on and pay for the ticket with trains, boats, with all of it." But when did we find out all this? I wonder, then, when did we find out all this? Today? Because SYRIZA, let him say it's a new party and it was small, many members of his government belong to PASOK. Like Mr Kammenos, who accused the New Democracy, he was in New Democracy for many years when New Democracy received loans. [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] Didn't he know about the loans? I don't understand that. When did Mr. Kammenos learn the loans? Now? When the New Democracy received it, it was good for the loans, because they contributed to the creation of a large campaign and thus to the voters. I didn't see any sense. I just saw a show. Will we do a committee of inquiry, which will examine what? Old sins. So, the loans they received, what did they do with them? And what's the point? Should we send them to the D.A.? Who? After the managers have changed, the Chiefs have changed. They've all changed. But even the party leader isn't responsible if a party gets a loan. It's a public life, and it's a collective responsibility. So? So what is the purpose of the examination? Should some Members, who are members, take a sum every time he meets? Is that the purpose? First of all, will this committee be able to finish its work? Because I don't think this government will be long. So the House will be dissolved and stayed. Let's say you're going to be in 2019...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u310	You've been saying six months, but you've been disproved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u311	I'll beg you, Mr. Famele, because you've become a turbulence...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u312	What about me? What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u313	I'm saying what you've done! Did I go up with you? Please. Mr. President is listening. I went out to talk, and I got underneath the various respondents. In the meantime, I saw that when someone spoke, Mitsotakis, Tsipras, the others got up and came up. Is that right in the Chamber? So, when one doesn't like something one says, do they have the right to be troublemakers? Is that right, Mr President of Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u314	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u315	But you have allowed this. You've had the trouble in the House of Behaviour. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u316	You understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u317	We'll see if you get some measures. Mr. Tsipras promised a new law on political money. But I think the existing one is clearly saying that for the last euro, there must also be the VAT of what it gives or the identity of what it gives and what it is spent there must be documentary. What else are you going to say to this law? What else are you going to do? A bogeyman at every party's fund staring? A "big brother"? A camera? What else can he get in? There are now class III books writing the last euro entering and the first euro coming out. What else are you going to do in control, which is, that you can press the dishonour, the stealing? I can't understand it. The media once again combined them - and Mr Mitsotakis rightly said that they are not the same, because one thing is public life, and the other issue is the mediation of governments to banks to get some friends of issuers. The second is criminal offences, which can be struck by the existing arsenal. Public life is something we should investigate. But I tell you that this committee will work for free, firstly, because every party - I am sure - will have its own expertise and, secondly, it will prove once again that this House will be fooled when the problems are huge and we should have to deal with them. The people are watching. And what? Can PASOK return money or Mr. Mitsotakis, as he said, by 2018, can he return the money? How does he know what percentages New Democracy gets and what money does he get to return it to? What was that talk about? Was it a serious conversation in front of the House? Does Mr. Mitsotakis know if there will be a New Democracy in 2018? You saw the PASOK. Of 40 percent he's got, he's got 4% now, and he can stay outside. Where's the money coming from? These are ridiculous things to be said in the Chamber. It is another thing to say: 'I am giving out of funding, as he said, 60% and as long as there is a New Democracy, I will try to depreciate the debt'. If he said that, he'd at least be honest like that. But "until 2018 I will have paid" and other things like this, these are things with which Mr Mitsotakis is exposed. He's new, and he had to inspire a new morale. I say it to everyone. Like Mr Tsipras, he is young and had to deal with the solution of the country's problems and not the hunting of witches. You'll see when this committee is done, after you've bored a lot of fireworks in the air in the marriage of Karakiozis, and after you've been busy and the crowds, which are raging when they hear such things, we'll come to the conclusion that what happened, we'll go further. That's all we're gonna end up with. If you think we're going to end up with something else, I'm gonna keep the tape to put it on everyone! I'm going to a more serious issue on the subject of intercept. Mr. Tsipras expressed the view that it doesn't matter who intercepted it, it matters what was said. Tell me: I had a debate here on foreign delegations. It's serious. Who will come back to Greece by trusting the Greek state? There was no talk of a punk, a candidate for fraud, so another, but foreign delegations were being seized. And after this content was seized, SYRIZA immediately goes out and says: "We do not need the International Monetary Fund", as does Mr Papapas, the Minister. But doesn't Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Pappas know that without the IMF a country doesn't go out on the market? Are you serious, Mr. Tsipras? Do you think that without the IMF you will get a "drawn" from Europeans? If you believe that, you don't do for the Prime Minister. If you say so again, so that your Members can hear it, it is well. Because the MPs always want to hear sometimes and lies, they're inspired when the truth is difficult. But I'm telling you, he's coming out on the market country, which is on a program I mean, without the IMF? Merkel said so, the Americans said that the IMF will remain in the program - perfect and complete! - and still the government says we don't need it. We've been eating for days. And where's the thing going? Meanwhile, what did the government do days ago? He gets unsuccessful agreements and says he will introduce them into the House for discussion. In other words, could the Central Association not complete something in these texts of agreements, another party, some individuals, who may be personal? They couldn't tell their opinion too? By entering unsubstantiated and unsubstantiated agreements, what does the government gain? Impossible. That is why Shoeble also said the debate that each one has the responsibility of his actions, surely implying that a government, which introduces an agreement to a parliament, which has not been completed, is not a serious government. That's what I understand. Tell me: If no agreement is finally reached and the House votes on these unconscious texts, will it be worth it? Are you gonna take a dose or any of these? Based on information, which I have the humble one, Europe and the IMF have decided to remain and Greece will not get the 5.5 billion, but to get, "alamised" of the program, one third. I have information that they'll give us 1,200,000. And the government will come to triumph. And we will be talking about a second assessment in two months and a third evaluation. In America they are already talking about a fourth memorandum. That's where I think the government will collapse. Purple to bring a fourth memorandum I don't suppose there's a Greek Prime Minister here. And because I consider Mr Tsipras to be serious, I do not think that he should come here and ask for a fourth vote of your own. This Prime Minister, who said he would slit memorials and turn south against the North, will not be able to bring a fourth memorial and say to you: "Beware: Or you vote or elections." There is also such a whisper, that 'or you vote or elections'. The elections New Democracy asks for them without wanting them, because it has not yet consolidated its popular leadership and doubts its presence. She's got an excellence, but she's not trapped. If elections are held in this place - which I see around October and November - they will be due to Tsipras, which will not have the face to bring a fourth memorandum, Mr President of Parliament. We write the tape, very simple, because MPs are not pawns, they are people too. No longer can the Members, who told them that we are tearing the memorials, now being asked to vote for a fourth Memorandum. Yesterday there was a survey by a channel owned by PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u318	He's never invited us to this channel!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u319	Don't give up on that. I'll see you around. There was a survey. Don't rush, Mr. Kegeroglu! I won't say anything against you. [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] While the previous 10-day poll gave 4-4.5% to the Central Association and 4-4.5% to PASOK, after ten days it gave 5.80% to PASOK and 3% to the Central Association. With such manipulations, gentlemen of PASOK, you won't be able to stand by the night of the elections. Because the final election poll will come and that's where you won't have 3%, no matter how much you smile now! It is your right to laugh at some. "One laughs..." you know the proverb.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u320	Who is she?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u321	I won't tell you, you know her. Mr. Katrugalos did not follow my suggestion of setting income criteria. Income criteria what does it mean? That even the widow's pensions are cut when the beneficiaries have high incomes. Because there's a man who gets his wife's pension. If he has incomes above EUR 1,500 or from rents etc., he must not take it. Then the pension will be cut. But if it does not, it must continue to take it up to EUR 1,500. You did not set any income criteria at all, nor did you merge them into one of the three pensions. Because a journalist this morning said to me: 'They merged them'. I said to him, "You're wrong! Get into the "HLIOS" system, see that there are two and three and it has not even merged anything. You didn't cut out of the wealthy pensions either. The Central Association calls out for eighty thousand cases of income anyway from other sources, interest on deposits, rents and dividends over 3,000 euros a month. You didn't cut them off, cut them out in Australia, in a western country to find a baseball for the poorest people. That's not what you did. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] And you say you're the left-wing government. But you're blocking the ones we have 'the feeling of the Left'. I'm central, but I have a sense of justice. I was born of a family, who on the left considered it a fair thing to have inside me. That was my faith. I ask that we cut the pensions of the rich, the pensions of the former Members of Parliament, who are some eight hundred fifty, who are also being retired from their funds. I call on the Members to pay 50% down, at least for ten years, as long as the crisis takes place. Why am I asking? Because there are people who open trash cans to eat! And while you do social grocery stores, to buy food, in their wages three hundred do not have the courage to do that. I call for the number of Members to be reduced to two hundred. That does not require a constitutional review. A Parliament decision needs to be taken. I call for a simple analogue to be decided here forever so that there is a culture of cooperation. You on the left had her as a request. You will soon leave and you will be ashamed that you have not applied the simple analogue! If you leave the electoral systems, you will again see the governments of the two-compartment, you will become a small party and you will have realised that it has passed through your hands of gold and you have not taken it! It was a left-wing dream, the simple analogue, and you betrayed it. And Mr Kurublis speaks of a system that is more proportional, he says, but which has stable governments. These are brakes and gas together. Steady governments mean a reinforced analogue, it means you don't make a government, if you don't have 50% plus one vote. This is the situation, ladies and gentlemen. The absolute irrationality. So let the bill come here to see if the hundred and fifty-three are 'bells'. I hope the Prime Minister doesn't live up to infarctions, take the hundred and fifty-three. But be careful, Mr Tsipras - and your father's friend, Vassilis Leventis, tell you, who, thirty-five years later, entered the House - did not have any departures and after the fifty-three votes were passed. Do you know why? Because Sakellaridis - if I'm not mistaken - voted for the memorandum, went out and MP, voted for all the measures and then left. So the fact that he gets today a hundred and fifty-three, because he doesn't want the other guy to be named a traitor doesn't mean he's going to be always submissive. Watch this, too! Your colleague was Mr. Sakellaridis and went out on the channels all day. You're talking about the channels. You want to fix it, fix it. Do you know that for the last few days, the Centro Association's been carrying out announcements and I don't see anything? And I'm combining it with the goulop made by a passive channel approach yesterday, which took us from 4.5% to 3% and the PASOK from 4.5% to 6%. I combine moves and some thoughts come into my head. But no matter what a smuggling plan exists, the youth will not let the Centro Association stay out of the House. He'll make it a third party, because someone needs to say it. Now, third party in these elections! And whenever you want, do it, Mr. Tsipras! But I'm not hiding my dream, even though I'm not asking to be a Prime Minister. After all, I want to make a government together and not with a right-wing party, like you. I want to make a government with parties, with which I could match and ideologically. I would never jump and take the far right as a partner. And first party to join the Centro Association, we'll want power up to a hundred and twenty, a hundred thirty to do with other government. We don't want self-restraint, Mr. Voutsi. They are up to our culture. However, I am not hiding you, and I am telling you, because I see that in this Chamber no matter what I propose, from one ear to the other to get you out, to prepare these elections to see the Central Association and the other parties first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u322	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty-seven Dutch students from the Bonhoeffer College. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-nine students and students and eight school attendants from the Municipal Schools of Old Mylopotamos and Vineyards Pellas, as well as from the Municipal School of Sokiada Chios. The House welcomes you. Minister Nikos Pappas has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u323	Ladies and gentlemen, when we are discussing issues such as today's, the Civilian Opposition mainly has three ways of opposing them. The first is that it abdicates our Government, firstly, that it is not consistent with the demands of the International Monetary Fund and, at the same time, that it is not consistent with the values of the Left. I think it's a practical contradiction. The second way is clearing. And suddenly a small plot somewhere on mountains, for which the debtor has to pay HNBS 4 euros, becomes the same thing as some dozens of offshore, which have tens or maybe hundreds of millions. And, of course, everyone has the right to his natural judge. Is there no political question that the former Prime Minister had his right hand an offshore expert? In other countries there are government resignations in view of the revelations about Panama Papers. It's, I think, very revealing the attitude of the New Democracy. Another way is by diversion that all this is because we have destroyed the economy and where it went for its permanent and final salvation, our government came and turned it back to destruction. Yes, sir. They are trying to convince, in other words, that the commitments made for the fifth evaluation of the previous programme were the salvation and the commitments that we made with the programme ours and the less than 20 billion measures are the disaster. Where would you get the money? Don't you remember your favorite question, gentlemen of the New Democracy? Where would you find money to go to a surplus of 3.5% in the year that passed? It was a disaster that - and EUROSTAT's figures are coming in a few days - the country will be in a primary surplus, and it was committed to a deficit of 0.5! That was a disaster! And the constant deficits and the fall in GDP by 25% were salvation! It is a disaster that the country was the first to absorb European funds! This is a disaster and not a stagnation! It is a disaster that we went to 0.03%, 0.2% recession, while the favourite - some - the International Monetary Fund in October said we will go to - 2.3%! Is it a disaster that we protected the first residence? Is it a disaster that they have two million people uninsured? Is it a disaster that our farmers had 2 billion-dollar corrections, which have been pending even since 2008? Is it a disaster that all the big projects were relaunched? Is it a disaster that there is a tax that we made public, which openly allocates the burden to incomes of more than EUR 50,000? Is that the disaster? I think that, because the bills are coming to Parliament in the next few days, this debate on unilateral actions is an internal debate. Let me tell you that no one in Europe sees this way and do not need this step, nor intelligence nor any people in Europe need to find their best lawyers and defenders here all the time. So no one saw it that way in Europe. I think they saw it as a clear move and a clear political mood to complete the evaluation as soon as possible. Is it a disaster that the insurance we are proposing is a national pension and is the level of current pension protected? Or is it saving the application of the zero deficit clause, which New Democracy makes as a fair proposal? So let the contention of a diversion be left. And I would ask them not to hesitate, because we are not in agreement with the International Monetary Fund, because we are not in agreement with the International Monetary Fund, but rather with the delays. We're never talking about the substance and we're talking about the process. And the New Democracy talks about the so-called negotiation. The Prime Minister met with President Olad and they said the evaluation should be closed quickly and there should be no new measures. Does anyone disagree with that? He met with the President of the European Parliament, Martin Schultz. I would remind you that the European Parliament is involved in supervising the implementation and consequences of the Greek programme at the request of the Greek Government. Was it a mistake from the Greek Government to submit this request? Or was it wrong of Europeans and Eurogroups who accepted this proposal? It was a mistake to meet with the head of the Committee on Economic Affairs of the European Parliament, Mr Gualtière, who also belongs to the Socialist and Democratic Group, who was glad to say that it was the government's sovereign right to decide which mix of measures would reach the targets. Do we agree with this principle, or do we not agree and close the eye on those who play delay games and want to lead and divert things into suffocation and banking problems and then come here and ask for commissions of inquiry for capital controls? A debate has not been heard by the New Democracy, because we are listening to the committee of inquiry. Before the referendum and elections, the previous government called for a short-day extension of the existing programme, so that our people would go to the polls without blackmailing bank suffocation. This request was rejected. How do you assess that? How is this rejection assessed? That's a good shot? Does this have to be Europe? Well, then, the situation has led to the extremes and our people in an extortion, in which, obviously, they have not been beaten? How does the Civic Opposition deal with this field? We, ladies and gentlemen, from the first day on which we have taken over the country's governance - and let me refer briefly to the issues of my responsibility - have begun to implement our election commitments and to try to lay the foundations for a legitimate, solid and democratic landscape in the media. Unfortunately, in the first few months, we had to commit ourselves and organize our powers to relaunch ERT. I am sorry to say that it should not be in any advanced and serious country that this should be a matter. We restored the injustice done against the state. And I would say to Mr Mitsotakis that he is not concerned about the transfers that will be made to the ERT, because we are also thinking about the serious and good functioning of the agencies, but also about the future and the work of the people. Other factions have shown that they do not have such criteria and such predictions. I would also say to the Chief of the New Democracy, when accusing us of appointments and party state, to think first of all about the number of posters he had in his own political office, who are more than just the political office of the President of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u324	How many?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u325	Fifty-one. So, on matters of my competence, we streamlined the operation of the General Secretariat of Information and saved the resources by 15%. The National Communication Policy Council has been established and soon it has come forward. The National Centre for Audiovisual Media was established. The Register of Online Media is set up. We proceeded with the supervision of advertising expenditure. These are regulations adopted since 1995, which have never been implemented. We have issued the list of frequency charges, which have never even occurred to you in the mind to charge, and now they have started and been collected. And, of course, as the parties had the right, they also appealed to the Administrative Court and the Council of State and the decisions were not favourable to them and have started and paid. I now come to the question of the Committee of Inquiry. It is clear that enterprises operating in the television sector have never worked under market laws. Why, if that were the case, how can we interpret the fact that existing TV channels have been operating for twenty-six years without proper permits and, of course, have accumulated a debt of one billion? Who, then, was the rule of sustainability so obscurely violated by the rules of legality? That is the one and the main question. And here came L.4339, our own law, for the licensing of television stations, ladies and gentlemen, to help us to get back to the future sometime and not to weep our fate and say: 'Oh, man, what's wrong with us? We have high-charged television stations and we have set back ground to bloom the "flower" of interlocking for non-viable stations, which will need political and banking support, beyond the limits allowed by logic. This morning - and I say this with great personal satisfaction and allow me once again to thank my legal advisers and all the staff of the Directorate-General for Information on the endless work they have done so that this effort can be carried out - the notice on the licensing of private television stations has been published in the consultation. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I think this is a very important moment. The notice will remain in consultation for a week. I would like to address a call to everyone, to parties, to MPs, to stakeholders, to table proposals on the way in which the competition is being conducted. We are committed as a government that every observation, every omission of ours, every operational idea will be exploited and evaluated for the final text of the notice. The complexity, ladies and gentlemen, has three pillars: political power, economic interests and the media. And because I listened with interest to some people saying that SYRIZA had too much visibility and also to deposit the viewing tables, apparently in these times hybrids and slanders are counted. If, in other words, a news bulletin has a fourth "Standard" or the theme of Flamour, the "Great Scandal", this is taken into account as the time to show the SYRIZA. That is to know what we are saying here and not to try to insult the intelligence of the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that only one country, which is involved in the bad texts of the past, can go forward. The trap of folding the past and putting the problems under the carpet maintains the same mistakes and is possibly also deadly for our democracy. I urge you, therefore, to think about it, especially all the oldest of the New Democracy, who have voted for the Rusopoulos Act. At this point I would like to remind you that the number of licences in the Rusopoulos Act was the subject of a ministerial decision. At that time, nothing was heard about Georgians or overpowering of Ministers or anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u326	And all the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u327	And all the previous ones. I'd like to testify a quote from the Minutes. A little paradoxical, of course, because I'm going to testify in the Minutes a piece of the Minutes, but it's good to refresh our memory somewhere somewhere. At that time, Mr Rusopoulos was placed, in response to the criticisms of the opposition. What was the criticism of the opposition then? Not that it holds the number of permits as the subject of a ministerial decision. The criticism of the opposition at that time was that it does not tell the House how many licences are to be auctioned. So Mr Russopoulos does not even say the number, and he explains that he does not say the number - I read from the Minutes - saying: 'I have often heard the accusation: 'But why do you not tell us the number of channel permits? How many channels will you give?’ But no bill, from what has been done so far, has ever been signed with a number of permits. And it is not because the PASOK press ministers had some destiny. It was not signed because you cannot give a bill number if the frequency map has not been completed.” I'm filing this passage from the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister of State, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned passage of the Minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I say this to dismantle and unload the intense debates that had taken place during the discussions of the bill and call on the New Democracy to go on the back of creative criticism and creative contribution, on how we can go to the new television scene. So our bill and competition just break this vicious circle. We are going for sustainable shapes, for quality shapes, and I think we can and must all stand up to the circumstances. So let us see the past, let us put the finger on the wound with the committee of inquiry, and let us all contribute to the competition for television licences so that we can take firm steps towards a clean television scene, a better television future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. Two Members will now speak and then a parliamentary representative. Mr Charilaos Tsakalis has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr. Jamaklis, you have six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u329	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the fifteen-and-a-half months of the SYRIZA Government, various scenarios have emerged, aimed at canceling its course and losing the declared one. When the 'left parenthesis' scenario, I temporarily assume - in the drawer, another one had to be invented. This was chosen to degrade the moral advantage of this coexistence and, above all, the moral advantage of its left side. The apparent loss of media control and media manipulation through it by misinformation, hide and refurbishment of news, vulnerability and much more, increased panic and accelerated the effort to degrade. Thus, the phenomenon appeared to be defended, supposedly, by its most rapists. The phenomenon has emerged that the media and the media are supposed to defend the independence of justice over a period of time and always favoured. The phenomenon has emerged that the "archiarchs" of interlocutors oppose the allegedly new SYRIZA-ANEL strife. Only three years have passed since 4-4-2013, when with a late amendment of three New Democracy Members, during the adoption of an investment law, the members of the banks that had granted loans to the parties to the former bloc were exempted from the possibility of prosecuting malicious infidelity. The exemption also concerned outstanding loans already granted and outstanding loans. It was then that the corruption prosecutors had reached the core of the dazzling path of these loans and their scandal to grant them and they had called the economic operators of these parties for consideration. I am referring, of course, to the fact that these loans, of more than EUR 300 million for the two PASOK and New Democracy parties, were granted with the sole guarantee of future state donations, on the basis of their future percentages in the elections, when, in order to grant a loan to a private or businessman, banks reasonably claim guarantees from owners or strong and presently inconvenient, such as securities, concessions, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, the well-documented society rightly demands the reimbursement of this money, which could cover many of its needs in wages, pensions or welfare. But the complication is a triangle. Apart from the old political system and banks, it is part of the media owners, the media that supported and continue to support the old political system. This section, whether as companies or as persons, received sea loans of more than 850 million euro, of which most are due to loans with funny guarantees, of which the owners do not cover the amounts granted. It was heard here about an almond! Ladies and gentlemen, we Members of the government majority are here and every day we are proving that the attempt to weaken the moral advantage is not going to be fruitful, for the very simple reason that we are not the same, that we have no references to the old political system. We are determined to support all efforts by the government against the interdependent interests, not only because this is a requirement of society, but also because the successful outcome of this struggle is going to deepen and widen democratic institutions. In other words, it is about democracy and parliamentary democracy itself, it is about the present and the future of its country and its citizens. Despite the legal obstacles that have been raised, the Committee of Inquiry will try - and I hope it will - to enlighten all the dark aspects of these cases. Despite the expected reaction to the investigations, which will follow, the Committee of Inquiry will carry out its work with the sole aim of seeking the truth in order to serve the public interest. It is equally important for us and the negotiation on rating and debt and the discharge of society and institutions from the tentacles of interlocutory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u330	Now New Democracy has the floor, Mr. Vlaissis for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u331	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very moved tonight because it is one of the few times during the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict term, which we are called upon to discuss an announcement which is finally being made. You are used to us in discoloured'red lines', forgotten promises, in large words with a small or zero contrast. Today, however, we are called upon to decide on the establishment of a committee of inquiry to investigate the legality of lending political parties as well as the owners of SMEs by banks, a committee of inquiry, which you have long seen and which you have been giving characteristics of Armageddon to us by shaking our finger. For reasons of principle - because it is the insistence on our principles that separates us from us as a permanent force of responsibility in this area - it will vote in favour of the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry, for your disappointment. Because you thought that this proposal would be accepted by your own votes alone, because you thought - in judging the odds themselves - that everyone was responsible. So you raised the ban on transparency on an issue, which, of course, needs to be discussed, but no matter how hard you try, you cannot convince the world that that is why Greece has arrived here today. We in the New Democracy have shown in practice that we are in favour of transparency over time. We did not need a committee of inquiry, our President Kyriakos Mitsotakis, to bring our party's finances to the public, all the information on our economic situation. We recognized any failures of the past, starting with the resolution of our home and thus giving examples of writing to gain the confidence of the world. So now we want everything to come to light, all to be checked out and all. And at this point your problem begins, because we simply have a different concept of justice. Because we do not function selectively and on the basis of what is of interest to us, but on the contrary. On the other hand, you turn your punishing sword in the direction that suits you, in this theater of irrationality you set up. You are seeking responsibilities for lending parties and channels and, indeed, paying particular attention to the costs incurred by Greek citizens, but you have rejected, lightly of the heart, our proposal to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate the causes of the capital controls, the third memorandum and the new need to recapitalise our banks. Is this not a matter of transparency and justice? Or did the events of summer not cause enormous damage to the Greek society, which Greek taxpayers pay every day? Hours - hours you remember the spoiled child, who easily lifts the finger to show who is the fault, but when he has done the damage, he hides in fear of punishment. We have the courage to recognize our mistakes. You choose in the most critical period of our time communications games, to disorientate society once again. Your inability to manage the flaming issues for the country is monumental. The migration - refugee is developing into a time bomb. Negotiations are evolving into a phosphoscopic series and your legislative work is exhausted in amendments that clearly serve your interests. In the meantime, therefore, you are setting up a committee of inquiry as a body of transparency, legitimacy and honesty. But keep in mind that true justice is blind and does not blink eyes at the beam. The other day, you tabled to the committee the draft law for the Ministry of Education, which you brought it back, withdrew it again. Why is that so? Why was Article 30(7) of the original text, referring to the costs of the PPE, a Special Research Fund at the University of Crete, which took place from 1996 to 2004? This article, of course withdrawn, legally baptised the costs which the management audit report showed as unsubstantiated payments. Does this case remind you of you, or have you forgotten it, as the Minister forgot to declare the millions of euros and the many properties in his "subjects"? Where was your infamous sense of justice when you put this case in the file? Are you going to deal with other cases that have in the past damaged Greek taxpayers, or are you going to be told only those who do not touch you? If you want to make up for the mistakes of the past and deliver justice, you will find us your escorts. But for all the mistakes, wherever they came from. Unless yours forgetting about them, as you forget about which companies you were shareholders, while holding government positions. You had it garnish, the oatmeal! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Madam President. I will not be long, ladies and gentlemen. I shall close by stating the clear position, my own and my party, the New Democracy, for universal transparency. Unfortunately, however, your attitude to a number of issues so far does not make me optimistic about the path that will take things. Besides, the right to judge the past is in direct connection with the ability to build the future. And you, the government that cannot handle anything, which does not make decisions, which does not plan strategically, that fails to meet the challenges of the present, is clearly a failure in the creation of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u332	Thank you. The speaker from Potami, Mr Lykoudi, has the floor. Here, Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u333	Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you something I believe. Those who keep working on the past are doomed to live in the past. For it is not just the political groups, who have ruled the country, who are charged with corruption, scandals and complications. The current government, which, in my opinion, does not hide from its past efforts to cover sometimes vague political proposals and policies, with a constant use of an irresponsible and hypocritical morality, in my view. Of course, the House should, and should, reveal and discuss serious issues of scandal, corruption and interlocutory. We must, of course, discuss issues relating to the spirit of politics in this Chamber. But, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot turn this Chamber into an endless court of morality, where the unscrupulous and irreversible word of the complaint against rightfully and unjustly, moral hypocrisy and the incrimination of political opponents prevail. The next proposal for a committee of inquiry, which will have the backwards of things, will come. I invite you to think about this. We cannot give the impression to the public that this Chamber, the Chamber of elected representatives, is a conceived man of immorality and corruption, because it is not true. We cannot operate on a divisive and exterminational basis, where on the one hand the so-called virtuous ones are drawn up and on the other hand the corrupt ones are on the other. I urge you to consider the consequences of such a split. Evidently that does not mean forgiveness of sins. To lay heavy responsibility where it can be proved that there are. We must, however, be aware of the sense of seriousness and responsibility towards the citizens. Because, ladies and gentlemen, corruption has been, there is and will exist. She's intertwined with the exercise and misuse of power. Power is devastated and absolute power is completely corrupted. I do not know that there is an exception to this rule. Corruption is even strengthened by the vast bureaucracy, the dazzling pluralism. As Tacitus said, Madam President, “the corrupter the state is, the more laws are.” And the complication has existed, there is, and there will be new forms. It is naive to think that organised interests will stop trying to influence political decisions. Nowhere in modern societies can that happen. What is required is another thing. It is clarity and transparency, mechanisms, i.e. control and transparency, to limit the phenomenon of 'under the table' agreements, to dark or to secret meetings with or without the presence of various cats from various races! Because, once again, it is naive to believe that the media, which are in fact the nervous system of democracy, will cease to influence. They'll be influential. Citizens in their choices judge the credibility of the instruments in a free society. It is not the government's job, nor is it, of course, the trade unions who are friendly to the government. The intended removal from the CSCE - I do not know if it will eventually come about - unlikely political journalists are unprecedented, unbelievable for our time, of Greek democracy. Nor is the change in ownership or equity going to result in ‘cleaning’. In fact, new regulations in the area are intended to enable possible new implications. It is naïve to believe that the 'photographic' provisions and amendments, the direct assignment, without tender, of public works, the scoring of 'DICAH', the amputation of the independent authorities, partitionism and nepotism - in order to give just a few examples of the problem - do not constitute blatant cases of moral decay, offering a bad, bad example to society and the citizens. It is not just the involvement of others, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of the committee of inquiry to fund the parties and the owners of media companies, but we have no intention of staying in the past. The exorbitant lending, the overcompensation of the parties that have ruled the country in Transmolitanism, is only a symptom and a monitoring of how state money is managed, of financial derailment. The parties' loans must be granted by transparent rules and must be repaid in accordance with the same rules and regulations as for individuals and businesses. A number of conclusions should be drawn from the Committee of Inquiry, which should lead to better legislation on this subject, so that the cost of funding the parties for taxpayers is reasonable and understandable and the rules on financing from private sources, such as the report and audit, are clear and transparent. Ladies and gentlemen, I will close with a report. I am delighted to read the joint ministerial decision to issue the four television licences in Greece, with a starting price of EUR 3 million, following a private company study. I wonder, is this the fight for interacting? Is this the explosion of our attempt to break, dismantle, crush the complication? Do we triumph the transparency and commitment of our national protectors to the proper information of our citizens? I'm really wondering. As for the expected revenues from this specific item, which the "bad" independent authority of the National Broadcasting Council could not carry out, we are here to see and see how it will be clarified. For in a text of the "innocent", according to Mr. Tsipras, former Minister of Finance in March 2015, which bears the heavy title "Greek Reforms", intended for our "negative" partners, mentions any other than an intelligible sum for the state koruna of 350-380 million euros. A lot of predictability. True imprinting of the golden TV goose, like the other one in the same text, for revenues from the smuggling of fuel, cigarettes and beverages of 400 million. The absolute, in my opinion, of the rageful imagination of the author! I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that new television companies are sound financially sound and do not have too many staff, such as ERT, in the last statement by the Minister of State. Because we have heard this astonishingly, not considering the struggles made by this political area for the unacceptable 'black' to the ERT, but for the view it had expressed that no intervention should be made to the ERT, because it is good for staff and is not at all more than twice as much as the needs of the National Radio and Television. We also amazed to hear the relevant Minister admit the day before yesterday that there is surplus staff and that something has to be done. The statement is true, but why is it now to be made? I hope this time that the Prime Minister's meetings with the new Canadians will become - I do not say opposition, nor to intervene aggressively - in the light of the day, not as the previous ones were told. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u334	Mr Dendias, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has been speaking for eight minutes. You're entitled to twelve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u335	It's all right, Madam President. It's tired of the National Representation, and I'm going to try not to force the colleague's fatigue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u336	It's eight minutes and as I had announced, when the party leaders have spoken, they become four. But I'll leave it eight.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u337	Five of them are, in fact, in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u338	Whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u339	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to say that today we have been faced with a splendid debate on the part of the government. Mr. Prime Minister has chosen sharp tones. He spoke about forty - five minutes instead of twenty minutes, which he deserved. He used the major part of this year to personally attack the Chief of Police Response, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, seeking something that I think is now evident to everyone. The Prime Minister is trying to heterogeneously define the opposition and its leader, in other words to create against the Greek society, which is perpetuating from the crisis, an enemy premise, which is indeed to identify with the International Monetary Fund, which he now demonises - previously invokes - and thus manages to escape the causal doubles, to which his failed policies have led him. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all there has been a parliamentary inadmissibility. It was proposed by the Government that its own proposal on the proposal of the Officerial Representation to set up a committee of inquiry on capital controls, which is directly contrary to Article 144. There's not even respect for legality. In any case, we are still waiting for the Prime Minister to state that he will agree on the proposal for a committee of inquiry submitted by the New Democracy. He didn't have the courage to do it in front of the National Representation. Evasive, I think he'll say no in the end. With regard to this debate, we in the New Democracy - Mr Mitsotakis said so clearly - our rapporteurs, Mrs Kerameo, Mr Vorides, Mr Javaras, Mr Plas - have absolutely nothing to fear. In any case, we have directly settled our home. About one and a half months ago, Mr. Mitsotakis, without anyone causing him, called an open event, presented our debts, presented our financial problem, presented what we can do to cure it and to what time horizon. There is no moral peril against the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen. The subject of research, as the government majority here brings it, concerns two different areas. The first is formal legitimacy. Did the parties, all parties, formally comply with the provisions of the law and the regulations of the regulatory framework, to obtain these loans? In order to establish this, there is no need for a committee of inquiry. It would simply be possible for the government to write a letter, by the Minister of Finance, to the Governor of the Bank of Greece and to get an answer. It is therefore obvious that the government is not seeking formal legitimacy. Second matter. Beyond the rules, apart from law, did the parties act correctly or wrongly, in addition to the current moral framework? To this, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to say that the letter tabled by the President of the New Democracy in the Minutes is catalyst. SYRIZA, for its part, and perhaps overreacted at that time, followed exactly the same tactic as the other parties, and even asked for something much worse. If you look at it - Mr Mitsotakis read it to you, I will repeat it, the repetition is a step-by-step - you did not ask, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, for a loan to be paid to you. You also asked for the institutional framework to be reduced. Mr Tsipras clearly says that visas are not limited to strict financial criteria. In other words, the prime Prime Minister of Greece, as leader of a 4% party, asked him to get more money than the financial criteria - he was reading the regulatory framework of the Bank of Greece - were allowing him. That was moral. Now that his political interest has changed, that gets another sign. You'll tell me, once it happened. Can I tell you something? I have another 2006 document signed by Mr Alavanos, with which you also ask for money against state funding. This was the way SYRIZA was financed, at least to the extent that it became government. You now come eighteen months later to get away from the difficult political situation and discover that it is not moral and must be subject to examination. We should go to an examination, but would you please leave all of this to us? You're leaving them? You know that Greek society can't stand it anymore. Look at your measurements. Leave the intention of voting. Look at your quality measurements. If you don't believe the companies that publish them, do your own. You have money from what it looks like. Make two, three of your own. You will see the enthusiasm of the Greek society to you. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a broader wording here of the Prime Minister and many ministers who have appeared here as the archangels against interlocutory as the bodies of the sword of law against the wrongs. Who are you telling? Shall we go to history for a while? I've been here since 2004. In 2005, when the government of Karamanlis fought to pass the "basic shareholder", you of SYRIZA - those who were then - where did we have you together or across the street? Do you remember what you had voted on at the time? Do you remember what you had voted on in Articles 4 and 8 of Law 3310/2005, when we were trying to catch the pimps and then pimps, as Karamanlis defined? On the contrary, we had. On the contrary, you voted. When did you remember the fight against the interlocutory? And if I may, let me tell you - why is no one naïve in this Chamber - that all that everyone in his conscience and at night in his home with a closed door called strife and corruption, is against SYRIZA today or a piece is assembled with you? Let's know! It's too heavy the sword of justice, and I'm afraid you don't have the backs to keep it. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be honest, so that we can finish with the main myth. What's SYRIZA? A new party? Are you something new? Are you something that the Greek society has given birth to in the crisis, so that it can get out of it, new healthy forces of society? Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to tell you this, but with many exceptions - and I would like to say this - many of you come from two roots. One is the opportunistic piece that left the Communist Party of Greece and the other is the orphans of Chohatzopoulos from PASOK. These two together can make something bright and new? Are you serious? As if this were enough for you, you also joined with our super-right populist part. So in a basket all the forces of darkness together!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u340	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, A little bit!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u341	I said 'overright', because I do not like the expression 'right-wing'. I reserve this for a very specific part of the National Representation. Let me tell you something, don't I? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Madam President, I can have a minute further, because Mr. Poppas a little tickles me. You know, the Prime Minister is coming here and tells Mr. Mitsotakis, we can call vows to check the party documents. Yes! Mr. Kammenos is coming and what does he say? Check the documentation of parties' expenditure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As far as the Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, does he not know that the parties' representations are controlled by oathmen? That the parties are controlled by vows who don't know? A year and a half, Prime Minister, hasn't he heard? With regard to the proposal by the Head of the minor party, his proposal is not included in the examination you have signed. You want to read what you're looking for? You don't even have elementary custody. Before you come to address the floor, read what you are telling us. In conclusion, Mr. Prime Minister, in order to put Mr. Mitsotakis in a difficult position, told him the following nice thing. He spoke with flattering words, Mr Pappas, in his family's history and said that Constantine Mitsotakis took twenty-five years to become a Prime Minister. So Kyriakos Mitsotakis with this tactic will need more. I have to tell you this. For a large part of the twenty-five years you say, it would have been much better for Greece if Constantine Mitsotakis had been able to become a Prime Minister before these twenty-five years. We are well aware of this now and of the entire Greek society. Can I tell you something else? Because society does not make the same mistakes in the same generation, what will happen is Kyriakos Mitsotakis to become Prime Minister before even twenty-five months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u342	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the Parliament, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured in the exhibition of the "ELITERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-four students and students and three teachers from the Elementary School of Whites - Kostos Paros and from the 4th Municipal School of Kastoria. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Megamomustakas has the floor for six minutes. Then it's you, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u343	Good evening to everyone left. By entering the Chamber this morning, I really expected to follow a procedure that would solve problems in my country, my home country, but unfortunately I realized that this was all a travesty, a performance that served populism and communication purposes, unfortunately. I heard a lot of people here today. Mr. Kokalis, closing his speech, said that the stolen ones should be returned. How will the stolen ones be returned? L4146/2013 with Article 78, I have the impression, removes all the responsibilities of the presidents of the banking institutions, who gave the loans to those who gave them. What does that mean? We're not getting anything from the stolen back. The New Democracy will come, the PASOK will come, the great-great ruler who took his loan and will say, "But you have given it to me. I got it. I wanted to serve some purposes. I have no responsibility for you giving it to me." So this is clearly a part of populism. They can't return the stolen stuff. I'm afraid so. Then I heard Mr Triantafylides say: "We are not doing the same. We do not serve party interests. We have the moral advantage." All of this with a poetic and literary reason. She was even in a hurry because she couldn't read it all. You do the same, unfortunately. At this time, unfortunately, Greece is going through the economic crisis. None of you are talking about the abolition of party subsidies. None of those who are here today, except the Centroon Association, is talking about it. So I think you'll do the same. It's my opinion. Really. You just don't have the chance now, because small businessmen can't get loans either. The same was then, so is it now. No bank gives a small businessman a loan right now. And you know it very well. Even in the party because there is control. The other thing I've heard and wondered is Mr. Pappa. You said, Mr. Pappa, that you keep your election commitments. You spoke about the ERT, to which a number of people were hired, and they did not really need it. So you do not keep your election commitments. You don't clean anything up. You didn't even keep what you said about the port. You saw what happened a few days ago. Unfortunately, others are the important problems of the country, which you do not take into account at all. Twenty-nine days the railway that serves commercial interests is closed in Idomeni. Merchants are getting cold. That's really what's going on. Have you done anything? Or based on the left-wing ideas of humanism, you say, "Let the refugees camp over the lines and the merchants starve, because our economy is going very well and can withstand this blow." It's not like that! Unfortunately, it's not like that! Today the Greek economy hurts and we all know it. I don't have to repeat it. That's just why you have to do something. This, I think, is a move to impress, perhaps, your party, your MPs, in view of the insurance you will bring, which is unbearable, to get the attention of the media for two, three days from this part and put it in this theatrical performance that we are participating in today. I then heard Mr. Tsipras for about forty-five minutes. In the first twenty, twenty-five minutes, he talked about general issues, about complaints from Mr Mitsotakis, who does not do what Mr Tsipras wants, does not support him abroad. For five minutes he has spoken about this issue that we are discussing today about the committee and then spoke about the bill that he will bring and that will give rise to problems. You should have abolished from the first day you came to this law, in 4146/13, not both Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Paraskevi - who spoke about twenty minutes each - about the bill. Let us bring a draft law today to discuss not the setting up of a committee. I don't think that's what we're asking. The whole world knows thank God, it's now being informed. What we've heard today knows the whole world. They're up on the internet. He knows who ate them, because they ate them, who abused public money. The whole world knows that! We didn't say anything new, we didn't say anything big, like on the day before, did we? It was a theater today. I'm afraid so. I heard Mr. Mitsotakis, I heard Mrs. Genemas. What did Mr. Mitsotakis say? He said he'd give the state grant by 2018. He owes 195 million. The state grant has been reduced and it does not even cover interest rates, I have the impression. While Mrs. Genemas was rather ashamed to speak with real numbers, she spoke with percentages. What did he say? It will give 60% of the state grant to pay off the debt. I did a quick account of all 125 million to be paid out with the state grant, it takes 833,333 years. This is a theater of irrationality that we live in here, unfortunately! Do the deeds and you'll see it. Nobody spoke! I also heard, with great surprise, the Members of the PASOK Democratic Incorporation - DIMAR, shouting at the time Ms. Genemas came up, because all the MPs were leaving. Now I see I'm talking to an empty room. We're laughing. But that's what they did, isn't it? We're laughing at us. I'm afraid so. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I am going to need some more time, because as the Central Association, we have not had one at all. So I heard them yelling at Mr Constantinea - and I apologise for saying it - 'true, sit down'. For me what Mr Constantine did, it was an insult to Mrs Gemmas, but what the PASOK-DIMAR Wing did was even bigger than what they asked not to happen. These words that are spoken in here, this behavior devaluates the entire political system. I've told you before that people don't want to see us on the streets. I'm not saying he's after us, but he doesn't want to see us. Last week, I made a wreath deposit in the events and I was embarrassed that I was celebrated without doing anything. I'm embarrassed! Why? No reason. Because I'm paying for the mistakes of previous policies. Unfortunately, that's how it happened. I also heard Mr Kammenos talking about the old debts and old loans of the New Democracy when he was a member. All right! What should we comment on this? Did he do anything then? He didn't, unfortunately! He spoke as a former member of the New Democracy when the New Democracy did these. I then heard the proposal from the river, which we know what it is, and which I found positive. There is a public platform, such as "GENERAL", where all the economic movements of the parties are over there. It's nothing bad. What it will show, however, that we do not calculate the political cost, we do not serve micro-political interests, is to abolish party grants. This has to be done. No party in this House, except for the Centroon Association, supports it. Not even the Golden Dawn - is none of them in the Chamber now - who at a Conference of Presidents who had been found, said: 'We will take the money? When are we going to get them?" They didn't care about anything else. I didn't say she'd be abolished. Only the Union of Centres with its President supports it and has it as a basic demand on its nine points. So that is what we are proposing to show that something will change in our political system. As I do not want to abuse the time - I am sorry - I shall close with a phrase that Mr Kammenos was speaking about - by a fellow government member of the ANELs, who said in defending the current procedure: 'We are dealing with today'. That's exactly what we're doing. He's making fun of each other. That is exactly what we are doing, unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u344	Mr Famelos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for eight minutes. There are two independent MPs left. Please keep the time, because we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Madam President. I'll try to be brief. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by saying - Mr Denkias is not here - that we must give him a map of the Greek left, because he is not well aware of it. I would like to stress, however, to all colleagues in the New Democracy that what you need to know is that Greece is happy, optimistic and creative only when it sees towards the Left, intellectual and progress. The conflict has never given our country an optimistic prospect. Take note of this for the future of yours. Ladies and gentlemen, I intended to deal exclusively with the contents of the proposal for a committee of inquiry, but I must, before I enter the subject, publicly disprove the dangers and dispersal of fears that are trying in a coordinated manner, unfortunately, to demolish the economy and society. Their tactics I think it is the one that does the greatest harm to their loved ones, because the country is moving on, it is going well, it can go much better. Negotiation and evaluation are going well. The statements made by the European leaders this week and also by the President of the United States of America claim that there is a way out of our country. But it is also the Draghi decision yesterday that introduces the Greek banks into a quantum relaxation regime, at least, for EFSF bonds. I would remind you that these bonds your government has become old papers and rags. So this gives a new perspective for our country, at least it brings us closer to the completion of the evaluation. We're nervous. We're not sure. We claim the best, the same as all Greeks. We want the country to go better. That's our agony. We know you're nervous too. Unfortunately, however, we find that you are anxious that the country should go worse. That's what separates us. You want the evil of the country to go back to your chairs. We want the good of the country to give our chairs to the new generation. This is the difference on the Left and progress on maintenance and complexity. This has proved to be a great deal more than the interview by Mr Mitsotakis, which he has submitted to us here and in English. But I have to say to the Greek Delegation that in the journalist's question, if it supports the labour and reform changes proposed by the IMF, his answer is: 'I would go with them for a very large proportion of these changes. I certainly defend the privatization of public property very aggressively. A lot can be sold at reasonable prices. No other comments against the IMF policy’. You can therefore see, ladies and gentlemen, that he put his hands on and took his eyes out here today in the House. No review of the IMF. Totally supports labour, not just the sale of the property. However, the purpose of the debate today is to explore and give responsibilities for violating legislation and not to create legislation, to see whether the legislation has been violated in the loans of parties and the media, and, if possible, to prevent, with the conclusions, strife and corruption in this triangle. The selection of the Committee of Inquiry is not regular. There is no reason to impress that some people have given 1,5 billion euros in days. One in the media, three hundred and fifty in the parties. That was the game he played. Is that an impression? Shouldn't we consider it? Because it was heard by the New Democracy that we were doing everything about impressions. We are applying the mandate given to us, to move forward and to complete the control of political power for the complexion, to change page, to finish the old, to light all the things that have led to the crisis in Greek society. We see the disturbance of the New Democracy or the devaluation of the results from now on. They said so, 'Nothing' will come up. You are appalled by the publicity that will arise from the and a disobedience to the people. Mrs Kerameros said at some point: 'Will we also do people's courts?' Why? Shouldn't the people have an opinion? Shouldn't this happen in front of society? Should we not at last say that the violation of the rule of law and of the written rules of the law and of the unwritten morality, against which the parties and the media are concerned, has happened in the case of loans? There was no equivalence and even though this had been repeatedly pointed out, it was a conscious choice for the New Democracy and PASOK to cover it up. The Committee of Inquiry must answer many questions. Who gave the loans with what guarantees, to whom? What legal responsibility are there for those who signed the loan? How do you claim the loans back? Who will ultimately pay the cost, and what if the citizen can get away with all this? More specific things. Do you know that in an injurious business, two banks made one twenty-five extensions and the other seventeen extensions and arrangements? Do you know that he is after all looking for an accountant for 950 million of protested loans to launch and 320 million loans to parties that are not served? The fact is that the loans for the media were given with guarantees of intangible values that were not in existence, films in their archives or that a loan of about EUR 100 million was given to a company that already owed 130 and in the last eight years was loss-making, and that there was a fall in turnover and great precariousness. What guarantee can cover this loan? The other important one. The ads that banks pay for channels and newspapers overhauled their lending, but banks did not even ask for money back. They were given the money and the borrowers were angry. This is the game that took place in your own political system and continued this licensing and no judicial action has taken place so far. There's a question. How will the banks claim this damage, and thus the government backwards? After all, have banks from parties and governments been used as party tools and not as financial institutions? Is this a public bank bankruptcy practice involved? The 5.5 billion maritime loans of the Agricultural Bank were examined to whom did they go? Did they finance cooperatives or enterprises that were best friends of the political system, in areas that were distinguished MPs of the New Democracy and PASOK? Aren't these issues of public interest? Because the Rules of Procedure of the House require that it be examined in the public interest. Because Mr Javarras tried to convince us that there is no need for a committee of inquiry. For all these questions, there will be evidence in the Committee of Inquiry. The main thing, however, is that it turns out that, after the relocation to Greece, we were not all equal to rights and obligations. Some had only obligations, many - and that was your choice - and some had only rights, few, yours. They had rights to tax evasion, offshore, immunity, imperial lending and you still don't take a stand on all of this, because there was no equality and justice. But despite the fact that we were not all equals, we are fortunately not all the same in politics. For what you know, it's over. It's bothering you that the complex is being shaken. It disturbs you that your children are questioned both within judicial authority and in the banking function. The debate on justice was revealing. Circuits with this government will end and we will have the majority, and we have the majority and the will and the time to discuss them. Because the triangle is clear. On one top is the bankrupt political system, on the other is bankrupt banks and on the other they are the overdue and unreliable media. It is clear that they are not two examinations, as Mr Mitsotakis has asked for to split the responsibilities a little. It's an examination, because they all agreed. Because they didn't get enough of the fat money, but they wanted to magnify the loan. So here I want to publicly disprove Mr Vorides' position, which told us a little about funding, and I am tabling proof that 275 million over the last six years have been the funds of the parties and not a little that he has told us. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But what you don't know is that apart from the loans they received, in 2013 falsely Mr. Mitsotakis said they didn't get funding. Because what did they do? They capitalised the 12 million interest they couldn't pay. They didn't get a loan, but indirectly they gave them another 12 million. Because that seems in their balance sheet and I invite you to discuss it here in the committee of inquiry. But for the SYRIZA and the coalition, these have been broken for a long time. The loans we have received are fully served and all our balances are controlled by sworn accountants. Here's the Rhodes, here's the fuck and the fuck. We are controlled by sworn accountants and do not owe the banks. The question is your loans, how you will be able to pay and how you will return to the Greek citizens all you owe them. Of course, there are many other political questions - I do not have the time to answer them - such as, for example, what right three times with amendments have created inappropriately in their funding, they have eradicated the criminal responsibilities for fifty bankers of ten political persons, including a Minister and three MPs, in the Kaloude, who have kept it in the drawer for three weeks to pass the night amendment, Christoyannis, Tsumani and Stamenitis. Because that's what happened with the amnesty. Of course, they came in 2014, and while the Commissioner said that it is 270 million parties' loans and that they are not served, and the Bank of Greece said in a late report, however, a new amendment is tabled in October 2014 and creates 40% incompatibility with party funding. Unfortunately, I have to close down, but we need to say something clearly. This triangle of interlocutory is proof of a corrosive society, which created an economic elite with loans. This economic elite is not productive. It does not create a product, create no work, it does not let the system renew, it does not let society evolve and it obviously has neither new ideas nor ideally nor control of journalism against power. With tax evasion lists, with stock exchanges, with scandals like the Treasury, the Sugar Industry, subsidies, the Hatzigakis package, the equipment looting, Greece cannot go forward. "Because wherever I return, Greece hurts me," says the national poet, but says "the hope will return". Hope will return when the conflict is fought and when democracy and democracy returns to our country. Because then it will also give us a sense of democracy and a sense of freedom and economic function, so that young people can stay in the country and move forward. Then every scoundrel will go to his bench - as is now the case with the television frequencies competition - with transparency in the bank loans we have adopted, with transparency in the advertising of banks which we have also legislated and also in the advertising of the CECs. This is the Minister who has asked all the ECIs for an account of the advertising they give and for how they hide and how political money has been revealed for so many years. Because the CDC scandal is not Mr. Polakis' terminology. It is the fact that through CEDEFOP they gave advertising so they can be advertised as political persons. This is the scandal behind the CDC and it's revealed now. Transparency, therefore, in public affairs is the one that restores, if you like, the way out to a better Greece, democratic, honest, pragmatic, as we deserve and as we always deserved in our country. We hope that the committee of inquiry will help restore the credibility of the parties and, in general, of the political system and the banks. We need the feeling that we are living in a rule of law, where the rules are the same for everyone. Our goal is one. I'll say it in three words. Democracy, social justice and progress. We will help all three years that remains in this government but also in the next four years to do all of this, so that the Greeks can live better. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u346	Mr. Nicholas has the floor for six minutes and then we close with Mr. Panagoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u347	Ladies and gentlemen, I am sincerely sorry that today Mr Mitsotakis has deprived the joy of the neo-democratics to celebrate the defeat of the interlocutory, which his father, as a word, left it when he said that the one who put his back on him today, took money and gave a check to throw him down. It's the incident that Panos Kammenos mentioned and I interrupted him. Since some of my fellow Members and idioms told me that "Cyriakos Mitsotakis can't talk about silver" I will present it here. ‘Section of shock by Mr Mitsotakis’. He's implying that they were financed to fire the government. He writes in the tweet: “You have cashed the thirty silvers.” I'll give you more for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] He will be pleased, my dear colleague, Mr. Mitsotakis, to be given to him by the barbers and hairdressers who hired there in his court like Mr. GPO, Mr. Theodorikos. That night of the elections I said that polls and polls should change, they should be hairdressers and barbers, since a scissors keep in their hands and sew and cut polls as they want and yesterday Mr. Mitsotakis hired Mr. Theodorikos. Looks like this is his normal job. Now, if we're kidding, my dear colleague from the river, I want to tell you we're not being fooled at all. Have you seen a cat sitting on four but no petals? Well, look at you, you'll see that cat, like tigers who made the tigers become Aguras cats, because it worked, you know. Who ever thought - and let Cyriakos ask his father if he believed - that Physicians will once be charged and that they will find him 57 million? This same procedure will bring from the hideouts the money that the masters are not supposed to pay and we have to pay for it. Mr. Dendias is here, asking for Mr. Cookie's twitter. Give it to me. Ladies and gentlemen, a few hours ago the Prosecutor of the Economic Crime, Yiannis Dratsis, urgently called on three witnesses to testify, which the Christian Democratic Party had indicated in his press reports on the matter of party loans. I'm saying it because you say it's going to work. There it is, today, a celebrity court case about parties' loans from the file. Evidence is these clerical establishments, which we are tabling. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] He calls Leonidas Stamos, Mr. Tobras and Stephanos Chipas. Why? Because the case had been seized, yes, after the amendment. But you know, we went and gave verse (b), because the author of the amendment wanted to keep his back, not to say otherwise - I think John Stournaras would have written it - and said that since the actions of the Governor of the Bank of Greece and the conditions of Basil II are respected, only then are those who the Kaloudi conclusion says - you will hear who he says - that they should sit on the stool. So the fact that the criminal prosecutions and procedural proceedings, which are already under way with the financial prosecutors, are not being suspended and transferred to the benches, we are all here to safeguard it so that it is not a PASOK committee of inquiry, which Mr Venizelos said in the committee of inquiry, when we showed Ake Tsochazopoulou's accounts that they are phone numbers. He was gone today, to say how it really is to not be a Bacacelos, but four. I was asking Mr. Kammenos. Why didn't you answer? Was that one? But it was four of the Bacats, and that's where he had lost the account. I'm explaining. There are the institutional tools that we have and we must, yes, force them to turn the stolen back, and there is, of course, the way in which there is fraud. Mr Denkias is here, and I am sure that not only as a fighter and a good lawyer but also as an honest politician, and he of course wants that. Citizens cannot believe that the stores of the honorable Mindarchs can operate without having own funds, when 2190 defines the withdrawal of these licences. I'm presenting in the Minutes a number of questions, dear colleague of the Centres, who told me that you were looking yesterday to find them. It's questions that were asked when Karamanlis had made me a scandal documentation secretary. Today that fight against pimps seems to reach the end, what a pity it is to be to the Greek people that this fact is sad today, rather than rejoice. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you know that it is not a constant scandal, the banks that are denouncing with this great convenience the loan contracts of thousands of small and medium-sized, poor bio-palestors to tolerate'mixtures' in the balance sheets of all these large companies? Did you see the balance sheet at the end of the day? He estimated that the value of ‘MEGA’ is zero. Well, bankers in a company that has zero value, how did they give these loans? There's the barbaric scam! Let them be prepared, along with Mr Psykharis who takes the administration of Alpha with him, for the others to go in close proximity. You, Mr Papa and Mr Spirtzi, have read the names of these bankers and politicians, whose names are recorded on these pages here I shall table and where the criminal prosecution is proposed? From Koskotta's Chalikia who should have gone with him to prison until today's Stournara who not only made that they didn't see what happened twenty-five years but instead sent the financial prosecutors and officials of the Bank of Greece to swear that everything was done well. So now, after I have submitted to you this transmission document of Mr Kaloudi's public Prosecutor's conclusion, let me, together with you all, hear some names from the Greek people. Papaconstantinou, known as ‘Titanian’. Spiropoulos, where you've been holding him for a long time, too. Multichronic. Significant. Daskalakis. Garlic. Sofian. Papandreou. Patsy. Zozopoulous. Pantalakis. Miliakos. Tampakakis. Turcollia. Frequently, many still respectful, and we need to be the owner of the high-society society of Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u348	Mr. Nicolopoulou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u349	I shall conclude, Madam President. As you gave your tolerance, give me too, which I am an Independent who has many years in here. The Kaloudia list is the first one I see after twenty-seven years here in Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, my dear friend Nikos Dendias, who is missing Papastavrou and that is, in fact, a step forward. Ladies and gentlemen, we Greek Christian Democrats with a 12-month memorandum to the financial prosecutors have tabled all these acts of the Governor of the Bank of Greece, as well as those of the ECB and have shown that the Basel II provisions on risk weighting were not complied with either. I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. So in this difficult time, in fact, one of our great responsibilities is not to allow shadows of the past to blacken our future. Keep your patience, and it is certain that this committee of inquiry will send every man on its bench, it is enough for us all to put our backs on it, because I do not understand how this committee of inquiry is being passed today, and therefore the Greek people think that the political system is going well at its feet, and it is coming not to fit but to clash with the conflict, some people here today from this Step to allow for association. Why is that? Is there really all the things that are being frustrated and moved on the Internet, which some might, Mr. Dendia, have to do, not in less than twenty-five months of Prime Ministers, but to make them as the only leader of this party, who will be so short of time? I think that such revelations will be noted in the Examination, which I would like to believe - the President of the New Democracy will soon be the past, because the reproach is what it is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u350	Mr. Panagulis has the floor for six minutes. Respect the time, too, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u351	Madam President, I think today's meeting which most of us are holding, without wanting to do so, is to mock the Greek people once again. That is the reality, and I will prove that to you. How much do the channels owe? I am not saying it, but it is a government official in a speech he made two or three days ago, the Secretary-General for Information and Communications, Mr Leuteris Cretsos. Speaking to SYRIZA officials, he said the debts of canalarchs are at least 950,000,000 euros. That's the reality. The debts of the parties without torturing any parties tonight and in the past days he confessed them. Mr Mitsotakis was sincerely 117 million in PASOK, eight to ten million in SYRIZA. But somehow, Madam President, the government is coming to us about loans from the canalarchs and parties. He had fifteen months from the day he was first chosen to break the truce. I asked a question in March 2015. Here's what the SYRIZA Ministers have said to me, known and unsatisfactory. The Minister of Finance at the time replied to me that they are considering the matter. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Efstathos Panagoulis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Paraskevi, Minister for Justice, said, in fact, that otherwise responsible for informing you is the attached Ministry of Finance. The Treasury did not say anything, which we feel is certain that in the context of the investigations in question, it will make them available to the judicial authorities. It reminds us of what Mr. Simitis said, whoever has evidence to do with the D.A. I'm filing it in the Minutes. We come to the paper sent by the Bank of Greece and says it is service secret debts to canalarchs and parties. Is there a service secret, ladies and gentlemen? I am tabling this document in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Efstathos Panagoulis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Personally with a cold heart I will vote for the committee of inquiry. Nothing's going to come out. Here's the truth! Do you remember the case of ‘SIEMENS’? Listen to see what has been done in "SIEMENS", because if you become a goal for "SIEMENS" or 1% of the Greek people, you don't know that this trial has started on the same day. Why was it interrupted on the same day? Watch out for what state of irrationality we live in. The trial for the Black Funds of ‘SIEMENS’ was interrupted, the procedure did not go beyond the indictment of the defendants and witnesses, as the courtroom was unable to accommodate the large number of parties in the trial, with lawyers even talking about the absolute nullity of the procedure. It is characteristic - be careful to see where we live in which country and why I said that we are mocking the Greek people - that until the end of the procedure the French interpreter, which is necessary for the defendant, a bank executive, had not appeared - he says his name - who is temporarily a prisoner. In addition, the lawyers appointed by the court on their own initiative must be informed of the case-file. There are fourteen German defendants, etc. That is why I said that we were gathered here in addition to some independent voices, and a possible two parties that told the truth to the Greek people. All the others are now signing something from which no conclusions will be drawn. For the truth, then we claimed to SYRIZA - and I say we claimed why I was there too - that from the Lagard list we would catch five, six billion. Mr Alexiadis came out the day before yesterday and said that they have been confirmed - I say about 200 million. How much was collected? Of the EUR 5 billion 4 billion, about EUR 3 billion have been established. How much was collected from the Lagard list? There's not even been a five-and-a-half.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u352	Bobola's casserole was collected. By the poor man!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u353	They're more canals. He's a friend of yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u354	That's not what he's saying. He's petting him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u355	Come on, Mr. Panagoulis. Don't stop. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u356	One minute, Madam President, I am the last speaker. You put me in the last speaker every time. Let me tell you something else. This debate is being held to disorientate the world. Why will the channels begin - except for me who have ruled out systemic channels, even by intervention of Mr. Papa, ERT doesn't call me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u357	By my own intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u358	By your own intervention. I can't prove it, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u359	If you can't prove it, don't say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u360	No, I say it because I know it. Excuse me. Three hundred MPs have been there. The only one who hasn't been through is me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u361	Please withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u362	I'm not rescinding, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u363	Rescind! You can't say such things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u364	You, ladies and gentlemen, may not go to the ERT, but go to the other channels. Anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u365	We're not going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u366	I want to believe Mr Pappa that it is not his intervention. That's what I'm told, that's what I'm saying. I conclude, Madam President, and thank you for your tolerance, saying that with today's sitting we are helping to defraud the Greek people. Our Greek people have taken most of us in here. He's got us smack and he's waiting around the corner. I'll finish this. Examination. They'll fill up the TVs and start these channels - which most of us accuse each day from 6.00 a.m. until 2.00 p.m., which is broadcasting and Mr. Nikolaopoulos - of having various fighters who will say that Nicholopoulou stole, Panagulis stole. The various speakers will therefore be fighting, and they will be no more than the Members. I shall vote for this proposal. I would like to say, however, honestly and clearly to the Greek people that today is a false meeting - the one we are doing here - to disorientate the world. Because you know - and I am ending with this, Madam President - that if, indeed, it is true - and Mr Pappas is here to tell us - how the VAT will go to 24%, every Greek family year from this 1% will have a reduction of its incomes from 500 to 700 euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u367	Well, just sit down and talk about it then. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-six students and students and five educational sessions from the High School of Imathia and the Naxos High School Bible. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The debate on the proposal put forward by the Prime Minister and President of the Radical Left Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, and the Members of his party and the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group of Independents Mr Panagiotis Kammenos and the MPs of his party for a committee of inquiry into the legality of lending the political parties, as well as the owners of media companies from the banking institutions of the country, is closed. Earlier this House unanimously accepted the proposal to set up the committee of inquiry without a roll-call vote. My proposal therefore is that the committee should be composed of twenty-three members, representing analogous to the power of all the parliamentary groups and the Independents and pursuant to Rule 31 of the Rules of Procedure. I propose to this House the deadline for the completion of the work of the committee and the presentation of its findings to be within two months of the committee being set up. Do you agree with this proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u368	The House has agreed. I would ask Parliamentary Groups to send the names of Members to the Committee of Inquiry by Monday 18 April 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u369	We must vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u370	Wait. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u371	The House has given the mandate requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u372	May I, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u373	Listen, Mr. Kutsuko, we have the Minutes here to read them to you. Here are the services, it's the Bureau. He knows what he's saying. If you have any objections, you'll say so. So here's what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u374	We agreed with the President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u375	But let me read you out of the Minutes. I don't care what you agreed. I'm talking on the basis of the Minutes. From the proposals made by the rapporteurs of the parties, the parliamentary representatives and the political leaders, it has been assumed, as evidenced by the Minutes, that all parties have consented, regardless of what and how they see it for the committee to be set up and set up, and in the past there have been such procedures. We have specific committees for specific dates. This unanimous decision of Parliament, according to the Constitution, must be presumed by at least a hundred twenty Members. The Members present and present here are far beyond that figure. So if any of these men or women Members of Parliament object to this, no roll-call vote will take place and we will normally proceed with our procedure in order to eliminate the list. But there will be no roll-call vote at the end of the roll-call vote. Is there a Member or a Member opposed to the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry? No noises in the Chamber. On the basis of these minutes, therefore, the Secretariat and the Bureau considered that we cannot ask SYRIZA to vote 'NAI', by the New Democracy 'NAI' and so on. It is as if this vote were taken at the stage when it was decided that no roll-call vote would take place. If you'd like to put it, I'd be happy to. In other words, there is no omission or any mistake. In our knowledge we have discussed this and decided that we do not need to. But if you object to it being recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u376	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u377	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-15-S1-commons.u378	With the consent of this House at 19.53 the sitting for the next Monday, April 18, 2016, at 17.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, a topical and urgent debate.
