ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the special agenda of the House, on the subject of the election of Quaestors and Secretaries, in accordance with Rules 6 and 8 of the Rules of Procedure, I should like to inform you that the draft state budget for 2017 was tabled. I shall read to you the letter from Mr Tsakalotou: "I present to you the preliminary draft state budget for 2017, in accordance with Article 79(3) of the Constitution and Article 121(2), (3) and (4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and I ask that it be introduced into the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs for discussion." The draft was also posted in the legislation to be in your knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION The subject of today's special agenda is the election of two Quaestors from the first to a power of Parliament, a Quaestor from the second to a power of Parliament, as well as four Secretaries from the first to a power of Parliament, one from the second to a power of Parliamentary Group and one from the third to a power of Parliament. Under Rule 8 of the Rules of Procedure, these members of the Bureau are elected by successive separate votes. For the time economy, it is proposed that we read the catalogue. The vote shall be taken by ballot and shall be secret. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-04-S1-commons.u2	So the House unanimously agreed. So in the unanimous decision of this House there will be a vote with two ballots.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-04-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, before we begin, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-04-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we will give the floor to Mr Pappas to say something, precisely to clarify the number of molds. Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-04-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in today's procedure for the election of a secretary from the third party, Golden Dawn will not participate and will not propose a candidate. You tell us about the election of a secretary from the third party and you are ready to do exactly the same you did, but also the previous Memorandum of Understanding, in the case of the election of a Vice-President of the Bureau of Parliament from the Golden Dawn. You all agree to deprive the third party of what it is entitled to and to safeguard the position in a way completely illegal and unethical, but also immoral, I would say. You have done so again in the war that you have all declared against nationalism, the people and the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-04-S1-commons.u6	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet in order to listen to the representative of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-04-S1-commons.u7	We leave and do not place a candidate's name for two more important reasons. The Golden Dawn, the movement of national and popular resistance, did not come to play the role of exile in political life but the role of the protagonist. Already the Golden Dawn in the parliamentary process and the conscience of the Greek people, has taken the place of the real national opposition. We also do not participate, because in addition to everything else that separates us, there is something important, the warning difference, I would say, between us and you, the nationalist places above all honour and homeland, while the political MP, chair and money. So, Mr President, thank you, but we will not! What can I say? Find them, as you've found them forty-two years now. I shall conclude, Mr President. You should be aware that the Golden Dawn, not only does not participate but also does not cooperate with the "treaty" of power that poored the Greek people. Whatever color they have, blue, green or pink, we are firmly opposed to your bow, the anti-grassy, memorial bow that tortures and endangers the home and the people. We Golden Dawn, the People's Association, the movement of freedom, want our homeland back and we'll take it. We're leaving, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-04-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, because the third in force in a parliamentary group did not propose a candidate for the post of Secretary, there will be a vote in two ballots as follows: The first call is marked "Cosmers and Secretaries by the Radical Left Coalition". The second call shall be marked ‘Kosometor and Secretary from New Democracy’. Two ballots have been distributed to you as follows: A list of the names proposed for the post of the two Quaestors and the four Secretaries from the first to a power of Parliament, a list of the names proposed for the post of a Quaestor and a Secretary from the second to a power of Parliament. There are also equal numbers of white lists. The list will be delivered, and anyone who listens to his name will come and cast the ballot of his preference in the respective ballot. It is true that it may cast a vote, bearing the names of the Members proposed or white in the respective ballot. If a vote is found in another ballot than that intended, it will be considered void. Mr Vassilis Tsirkas from the Radical Left Coalition and Mrs Maria Antoniou from the New Democracy are on the list. They are called as voters for the first polling for the posts of the two Quaestors and the four Secretaries from the first to power Parliamentary Group Mrs Elisabeth Scoofa from the Radical Left Coalition and Mr Vasilis Jogakas from New Democracy. They are called as voters for the second poll for the posts of a Quaestor and a Letter from the second to a power of Parliament by Mrs Panagiota Vranja from the Radical Left Coalition and Mr Christos Bukoros from the New Democracy. Mr Catherine Papanatsiou, Vice-President of the Committees, is well defined as the chairmen of the Committees of Inquiry, for the first and second polls. I would ask the voters and the chairmen of the Committees to come to the ballots, so that the vote can begin. A list of members of the Committee of Inquiry has been given "To investigate the legality of lending political parties, as well as the owners of media companies from the country's banking institutions". That list will precede. I would ask those who read the list to start with this list of committee members, so they too can start their process. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-04-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th Elementary School of Painter. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Following the Multilateral Agreement of Authorities for the Automatic Exchange of Financial Accounts Information and Implementing Provisions'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-04-S1-commons.u10	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that sealed colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House on missions by the Government or by the House abroad. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by Members pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-04-S1-commons.u11	The vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count and sort out the ballots and get the result. [[DISCLOSURE - DISCLOSURE]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, thirty-six students and two teachers, from the 2nd General School of Moschatos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let me tell you that we are at the end of a voting procedure, because we have entered a new session of the House, at which some and some of them are elected by Parliament's institutions, such as the Secretariat, the County. Today we voted by secret ballot a short time ago. We'll be announcing the results soon. There's been a count of the votes. It's a pity you didn't come to the usual day of the House's work. As you know, the House has two main tasks. One is the legislative work, in which the laws of the State are passed and the second very substantial procedure is the one called parliamentary control, which is to say, the parliamentarians of the government on the matter. This is done by means of a certain procedure, where a Member may table a written question, the relevant Minister comes and there is a debate in the House in a defined procedure. They can also submit a group of Members of Parliament a question to Ministers or to the Prime Minister and make the debate more extensive. It is also possible - outside the agenda - to discuss the Heads of State or Government. These are a little too much of a process. I hope that we will see you in one of these procedures, which are more substantial, because today I tell you that we are at the end and it is a little disgraceful to hear only the word of the result of the vote which has just been preceded. I would also like to say to you that the seats in Parliament's seat are fixed and not everyone sits anywhere else. There are positions designated for the different parties. As I see it, on my right and next door are the headquarters of the New Democracy. Back right to the wall are the corners of the Golden Dawn. SYRIZA occupyes the two front seats and a little backwards. Left are the seats of the MPs of the Communist Party of Greece. Behind it is the bearings from the river. Next to it is the headquarters of the Democratic Association, which is the PASOK - DIMAR, the next side is the Independent Greeks and the next side is the Centron Association. As you know, the number of MPs in the Greek Parliament is three hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-04-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House the outcome of a secret vote on the election of the Quaestors and Secretaries of this House. A total of 211 Members voted. For the post of Quaestors from the first to the force of the Parliamentary Group, they received: Mr Athanasios Athanasios 174, white 31 and void 6. [[Applause]] Mr. George Panzas votes 168, white 37 and void 6. [[Applause]] For the post of Secretaries from the first to a power of Parliamentary Group, they received: Mrs Anastasia Gara 172, white 33 and void 6. [[Applause]] Mr Marios Katsis votes 170, white 35 and void 6. [[Applause]] Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis votes 171, white 34 and void 6. [[Applause]] Mr Georgios Psychogynogic votes 170, white 35 and void 6. [[Applause]] The Quaestor's post from the second to the Parliamentary Group received: Mr. Konstantinos Koukodemou votes 191, white 14 and void 6. [[Applause]] For the post of Secretary from the second to the Parliamentary Group, he received: Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis votes 191, white 14 and void 6. [[Applause]] Therefore, according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the nominated candidates are always elected as Quaestors and Secretaries. I would like to congratulate the electors. Good power in their new duties. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-04-S1-commons.u13	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-04-S1-commons.u14	With the consent of the House at 12.50 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 5 October 2016 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
