ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would like to make two announcements to this House: (a) The Ministers for Economic, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure, Transport and Work and Social Solidarity, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance, Environment and Energy, submitted a draft law on 23-9-2016: ‘Urgent arrangements of the Ministries of Finance, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure, Transport and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity for the implementation of the Financial Objectives and Structural Reform Agreement’. The above draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent. It was referred to the Co-legislative Standing Committees. (b) The Ministers for Finance, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, as well as the Deputy Minister for Finance, tabled today, 26-9-2016, a draft law: "Undoing the Multilateral Agreement of Authorities for the Automatic Exchange of Financial Accounts Information and Implementing Provisions". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS There will not be debated because of their impediment to the honourable Member, the third with number 1303/20-9-2016, a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning foreign-language school books that are for payment in all public schools. No debate will be held as a result of the interrogation of the Member of Parliament, the sixth under number 1227/6-9-2016, a topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy. Anastasios Prussaki to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the situation of red loans in Evros and Thrace. It will not be discussed due to a workload of the relevant Minister - and it will be redefined for discussion - the first with number 1291/19-9-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Ioannis Kefaloniannis to the Minister of State, Mr Nikolaos Pappas, on the legal status of a Cypriot company participating in the "April SA." Furthermore, the following questions will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister of State, Euklidis Tsakalotou: the second question under number 1295/19-9-2016, the second question of the first cycle of MP, Athens, the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Panagiotarous to the Minister of Finance, on the ‘legislative arrangement to extend approved expenses beyond the hospitals’, and the seventh question under number 1191/29-8-2016, the second question of the MP of the PASOK Democratisation - DIMARK, to the Minister of Finance, on the protection of citizens against excessive bank charges. The first, with number 1292/19-9-2016, topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the'short-making' in Patras - Pyrgos, will not be discussed due to the misappropriated obligations of the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr. Christos Spirtzis. The second question, with number 1271/15-9-2016, of the second question of the Achaea MP for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Health, on the imminent risk of depleting the budget of nursing units in Achaia due to sub-funding, resulting in the inability to grant high-cost medicines to vulnerable groups, will not be discussed due to the unsuccessful obligations of the Minister of Health Mr. Xanthi. The fourth question, with No 1260/13-9-2016, is the second question of the Member of Parliament of the Republic of New Democracy, Mr. Konstantinos Javara, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the declaration as the theocratics of the Municipalities of Andradida and Pineion and the adoption of measures to compensate the affected citizens, will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Panayotis Kourublis. The fifth question, under No 1253/12-9-2016, of the second question of the Evian MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the "displacement of thirty-six thousand seven hundred nine hundred Greek children from nursery stations", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis. From fifteen questions, there will be two. I do not know if you remember, an old project, 'We lost aunt, a hop', but here we have 'We lost the ministers, a stop'. There is a letter from the Secretary of Government, Mr Michael Kalogerou, confirming - there is no need to be tabled in the Minutes - the reasons I have already read about the absence of the Ministers. The third question under number 1268/13-9-2016 of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health will be discussed, concerning the transfer and operation of the 3rd University Cardiological Clinic from "Laikos" to the Hospital of "Evangelism". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paul Paulakis. Mr. Cremastino has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u2	Mr. President, before I get to the question, please hold on to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u3	Okay, it's two questions, and there'll be a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u4	Yes, but I will not go into the question at once to raise a major issue that is perhaps more important than the question. Of course, the ministers have a workload, others have employment, others are abroad. All this is understandable. It has, however, been decided at the Conference of Presidents that, because of all this, a date or one day for each of the Ministers for Labour, the Minister for Health or any Minister who will avoid his appointments that day and will come to the House to reply. But that has not been done so far. And you see that there is this phenomenon, which, of course, I would not say that it honors Parliament. This is a decision that has been taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u5	Yes, if you remember, this decision was supplemented by the revision of Section II of Parliament's Rules of Procedure as a whole as soon as the new session opens, that is, in a week, where there will also be what you said. And we said we'd include other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u6	I'm very pleased.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u7	Time begins now to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u8	So I come to the question. It's a big problem indeed. For years a university clinic has not been operational, because others do not want it and others do not want it. That's the question. And so, although it has been institutionalised, there has been a joint decision since 2003 that this III university cardiometric clinic will work, so far it is not working. I personally ask every minister to ask the same question. All the ministers say about the same thing, that is, any minute it will work. But that doesn't work. So people face a dead end. It's not possible! I have to tell you that a professor in particular of heart surgery - not to say his name - is retired. He sued the public and took half a million fees, because his entire term failed to operate the heart surgery clinic. In heart surgery there are four teachers. One retired, the other resigned, now is the fourth teacher at the moment, who claims that the clinic should function. I was sent here - and of course also to the Ministry because they are addressing it to the ministers and to the ERCY - a proposal from the workers in the 'Evangelism' - to sign it eighty, who are teachers and coordinators - who want to go to the 'Evangelism'. For several reasons, which are not here, it has so far not gone. The question, then, is: Will this clinic work in a hospital on conditions that it will not be isolated, that it will have the necessary organs? Because if he does not have the necessary organs, what kind of training or retraining will he do when he is a university clinic? Not to be a hospital isolated, to have infrastructure so that it can function. Now, because I don't want to get into the story, because if we go into the story, we won't end it, the best thing is to wait from the Ministry and the Minister to say what happens, so we don't start and say what didn't happen. I mean, that's what I'd like to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u9	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u10	Mr Colleagues, in both Parliament and in medicine you give me a chance to say a few things. First of all, we're not talking about the transfer of the Third University Cardiology. We are talking about the establishment of the Professor, Mr Manolis, in the 'Evangelism'. To separate things a little. If you have anything else to tell me, then I'll answer that. Mr Manolis - because things are simple and we need to talk about this and not about the theory - he held a manager's seat at the ESS since 2004. He was elected professor in 2013, sought to maintain both positions, requesting that he remain as a part-time professor, who was rejected by FEK. His clerical relationship with the “Evangelism” was resolved in June 2014. He failed to take over the address of the First University Cardiological Clinic of the Hippocrates that he requested and took up duties as Director of the Third Cardiological Clinic at the People's Hospital, where there was obviously no room for beds, etc. But that's a matter of the university. Since then, a number of decisions have been taken which, of course, left a specific wording that 'we agree to be transferred to the Announcement' if no malfunction occurs'. The point is, we accept that the Third University Cardiology will be transferred, except this third University Cardiology is only Mr Manolis. I don't know if there's any lecturers, I don't know there's any assistants, I don't know there's no equipment there that's going to be installed. I have actually referred to this previous decision both to the ERCF and to the services. There is a return, which says that really practical - and on the basis of the laws that you have passed and which Mr Loverdos has also voted for in 2012, if I remember correctly, which integrated the two 'Evangelism' clinics, which, of course, are operating in separate sections - in fact, Mr Manolis's return will mean that he is going as a university coordinator of two clinical eighty beds. You understand what this thing can create. We'll actually say that guys who have and do a huge job have developed all the departments and all the advanced techniques of cardiology and are now equipped with other things, when the new wings of surgery are finished, both with the second coroner and with electrophysiology laboratories, etc. Now, do not say these things will soon be announced about them. It was proposed that Mr Manolis and the university go to the General Oncology Hospital of Sanctuary, and develop a clinic there. He didn't accept. He was suggested to go to Salvation, as far as I know. He didn't accept it again. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell is ringing by the Deputy Minister of State at the end of the speech time.]] Mr President, I shall end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u11	Today there is time because of the only two questions that are answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u12	I think that some specific answers should be given because I did not expect it to come to Parliament as a timely question. He was offered to go to the "House of Eugenius", which we have now made a consultation with the EOPYY, which will be installed in university clinics. You know, "Nurse" is the only private clinical property of the university. He has 97% of the shares, and if you remember from the past, the "Guideio" passed to the university after a occupation he had made my year, the fourth year of the year, when we didn't have many clinics to train and this whole story became after the death of Eugenides with his widow who didn't want to carry out the will. So it spent a few years at the university, private clinics and then became a "magasy" in which some academics operated, missing from their duties. So we have explained to the Rector, Mr. Dimitriopoulos, that in order that the "Egyption" will not be treated as a private clinic which has a contract with EOPY, but as a public institution that provides public services and has a contract with EOPY, so that it does not be subject to "claw back" etc., it will install university clinics and departments, students will be trained and then we will proceed to the rest. There is such a decision of the Senate and there is this proposal. So there is a glorious field for Mr Manolis. I also want to say something else. We have given fifty positions - in consultation with the Ministry of Education - because for many years there has been no "new blood" in the University. In the past few years, there was a lot of "new blood". Of course, here I have a parentheses here and say that we are the only university, the School of Medicine - and this has long been the case, from the junta, from the Association of Health Teachers of the University of Athens, etc. - where sons, daughters, sons and baptists exist and could not find a way out of the public, they were appointed as lecturers or as assistants at the University of Athens and in particular at the Medical School. If my memory doesn't cheat on me, it's got to be a five-and-a-half of those relatives of old medical professors, etc. Anyway, over the last few years in the provincial universities, there have been no people and we have given fifty positions. We said, in fact, that they would take from seven people to each provincial university and eight people Athens Medical as the largest school. To provide for some positions there, also to take university cardiologists, to find work and some young children and not only relatives, to serve the clinic, to install it in "Egyption" and to develop its skills there Mr Manolis and all those who accompany him. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Kremastine, you have the floor for the relative comfort in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u14	First of all, I do not want to personalise this issue, because it is not a personal matter, to talk about Mr Manolis. However, since you mentioned it, it is one of the best professors of cardiology and of the people working.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u15	I didn't disagree with that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u16	No, I'm saying my opinion and I'm closing up with this because it's not personal. I will also not disagree with what you said about some teachers, but you need to know that there are other teachers who have not done that. For example, because I am in front of you, I must tell you that, not only has my relative been nominated at the university, but there is not even in my relative’s work. If you're looking for them all, "PubMed is enough...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u17	It wasn't a personal report, it was a general report.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u18	No, I do not mention it as a personal report, but I would like to say it on behalf of the teachers who are a different category. I mean, I'm not apologizing for the people you're saying, but I'm apologizing for the others, to whom I want to belong. Let's not just bring all the things to the ground - even water, because then we're doing nothing. So it's not about our personal matter. But our subject is a university. That's why I told you that the former cardio-surgeon professor was retired and sued the public. Well, now, they're suing, too, it's not gonna be good. What I want to say to you - and I said it - is that if for any reason it cannot be done in the 'Evangelism', wherever it is done - it must have a university clinic infrastructure. I mean, he can't have any haematological, he can't have any modern machines. I think it's not too much money. What I'd like in dentistry to tell me is that yes, we're thinking about getting there, which isn't far away. For example, in the "Saint Anargyrus" they will be done, but if the students go there, how will they go to the other lessons? They're only gonna do heartiology and then they're gonna start from there to downtown? In other words, I have no objection, but I would like the clinic to be fully operational in terms of infrastructure. So if, in your reply, you are closing this matter, I am pleased. That's actually what I'm asking. I don't ask personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you have the floor. I think we're going to find a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u20	Look, Mr. Colleague, I think I've answered my protology. This is not an issue that will be solved exclusively by the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u21	They told me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u22	Listen, what you say about "Saint Anargyros" does not apply. So, in the CSD they don't go to medical students in Sismanoglio, they don't go to Nice, they don't go to Attica? Around the 'three corner of the Bermuda', there 'Basilism of Wisdom - Evangelism - Laikos' must all be installed? There's bread elsewhere. He's got needs somewhere else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u23	Where there are problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u24	And we also said the diffusion of the university, let's say to other hospitals, it's good for them to do, it raises the level, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u25	No, there are other sections...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u26	I was lucky to be a specialist at a university clinic set up in Nice in the Fourth University Surgery. No complaints were made about the students coming there. They didn't complain at all. By their appetite, they were coming, because they were learning things. Whether he complains about going or returning the student has something to do with what his teacher teaches him. If his teacher teaches him, and in the Great he goes to Surmenes he goes. First of all, that. Secondly, I told you that we gave these positions to the university of PIS, which was for the Ministry of Health, precisely to strengthen the district's provincial medical schools as well. It's the university's decision to hire such people. It has a separate budget, the university is subsidized by the Ministry of Health, as well as by the Ministry of Education, which can buy these equipment and I think the "Saint Anargyroi" is a solution, because it really is the development of a hospital on the north side of Attica. It's far away, but what do we do? From there on, if he appreciates the university that he wants to take it to "Evgenius" and accepts to go, and there are spaces and the clinic can be developed. Now, about the other thing you said, I'd say a word and get it over with. Okay, we all know each other, Mr. Kremastine. We know what happened at the Athens School of Medicine. I know very well that there are excellent colleagues in teachers of medicine, and that seemed to be the case since the ovens of my own, whose amphitheatres were filled with. I'll remind Papazacho, for example. I'll remind Papadopoulos in Anatomy. I'll remind you of some of them, but there were others who were wrong there and made the next ones wrong. One reason some departments and some specialties don't walk similarly to some others is that. You know better than me how with Byzantine conspiracy at general departments conventions and school was done. I think the Vice President knows. Everyone around there, around, we were. It does not deny, therefore, that there are worthy scientists, etc., that we have - I am not speaking by majority - a huge concentration in such a way as to be hidden and recruited lecturers and professors of medicine. I was also inviting myself - and I am closing up with this - to the subject of postgraduate scholars to the medical school - and I expect an answer to that - and to the University of Athens. Postgraduate scholarships will make a public invitation and set an example as a university.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u27	I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u28	It is not a question of agreeing, Mr Cremastine, it is about doing so. The point is to do it, not generally agree. Give the example of dignity. Get a public invitation to the thirty postgraduate scholars, who want to take the university, each one who wants to go in there with written examinations and not the one who wants to give him the title of a graduate scholar to go on board, make a second course of training in some hospitals, make the paperwork and the necessary workshoping that is needed to become a lecturer tomorrow, or I don't know what and put him on the road and in the groove of the defined course. That's, "for the field of glorious glory", if he wants to do that. As for what you said about the eighty signatures, I was sent with some papers. It makes no sense now - not to say - that some take their signatures back in relation to going to the 'Evangelism'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u29	Keep moving!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u30	The solution, therefore, is the one I described, Mr Cremastine, and I think that, in cooperation with the university, whatever help is requested, we will give it in order to establish whether it can be established in the "Greek", if it can in the "Saint Anargyrus" to do this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u31	However, in conclusion, Minister, although they had a sufficient dose of truth than you said, if we wait for the selection procedures to be carried out by these eight posts that you say to be deployed in a human potential, the Third University Cardiological Clinic is more time-consuming, you know that than the ones for the ESS's crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u32	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u33	So he'll be inactive a man who happens and I know him and he's an excellent therapist and even a better teacher. I think you have a practical mind. Contact the dean and Mr. Friends to shorten this thing as much as you can. And because you said about the "Saint Anargyros", it was necessary for my close man to visit and it is an excellent hospital, which is almost empty, because it is not very attractive due to location for us doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u34	Just a word. Procedures are a matter for the university to speed them up, first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u35	I said to make a contribution to the ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u36	And also, this clinic has been set up since 2008. They could have hired them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u37	Okay, it didn't happen. Now let's not have a memorial. Everything we can from now on we can do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u38	The university clinic must have infrastructure in order to be able to do training...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u39	And this, but the "Saint Anargyros" is a very modern, new hospital. We're going through the last time question. It is the fourth with number 1302/20-9-2016 timely question for the first cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Rural Development and Food, on the problem of the recent catastrophic floods in the Peloponnese. The Minister will answer Mr. Apostleu. Mr Moraite, you have the floor on the relative comfort and on you, since it is the last.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, today the JRC brings to Parliament the issue of floods. The day before yesterday, we had for Elijah and for the whole country. Today, unfortunately, we are bringing the issue of floods to the rest of the Peloponnese and today, Minister, we are unfortunately talking about loss of life. There were five dead of the last floods in the area. And that's not all. We also had huge damages, particularly in poor neighborhoods, material damages, such as homes in shops, homes and others. Also huge were the disasters involving agricultural crops. We had hundreds of flooded houses and shops, damaged cars, especially Kalamata and other areas of Messinia, as well as Corinth and Laconia, and thousands of acres were destroyed, especially the municipalities of Kalamata, Ekalia, Messini, Gargalian in Messinia, and the Municipality of Eurota in Laconia. There the damage was particularly large and extensive. This situation, Mr Minister, cannot be attributed to the natural disaster alone. I will say in my denture because there are all these disasters. In our view, it is the result of the lack of infrastructure, of flood protection and armour, particularly in these areas. We have damages, Minister, to national networks which have been delivered for use - and I will say how the Greek people pay them once and for two and three times - two three years ago and have been flooded. It is therefore a very serious matter. It is the lack of these infrastructures that creates these huge problems. Now we come to the question, Minister. You visited the area and you personally and another government step. Promises, in our view, are vague. They don't have any objections. For example, in farmers' crops, most of the damages are covered by this anachronistic ELGA, which we say is a tax-fixing and tax-suppressive mechanism, which is all it does is to cut farmers off, while instead, when they are damaged, it does not compensate them. We'll talk about the rest, about the PSA, about the solidarity funds, and it goes on to say it. We also call on the world in this difficult position to suspend the payments of ENVY, municipal charges and other debts to tax and insurance agencies and not what you have done, Minister, that there will be a six-month suspension of these debts. So what happens after six months? There will be money for these people who are destroyed, who have lost crops that have lost their entire livelihood. We therefore say that relief measures must now be taken for this world. Also, Minister, you must commit yourself, to draw conclusions, to see that there is a need for flooding - and across the country, not just there - and to get a plan in place. Of course, we know that this is what they stumble, because they have no profits for business groups, for construction groups. I shall refer to the following. In closing, therefore, we are also asking for measures to be taken from the state budget to relieve these affected people, because really the disasters in some cases are totalitarian, and this world is desperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u41	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u42	Colleague, we've all been shocked by the loss of human lives. We visited the region as soon as possible, and the damage you mentioned, has already been mentioned, about two thousand statements have already been made and, since last week, the assessments in Laconia have been started and this week, already today, the assessments in Messinia have been started. Indeed, there are too many damages, as you have mentioned in your question. What is being done from our side is to see how all these damages can be covered in search of resources from all the sources that we can have at our disposal. Already on the ELGA side at this time has become an approach to addressing the 50 specific estimates of animal population, beeswax. And when I talk about an animal population, I refer particularly to ovine and caprine animals. Therefore, these, which are covered by the ELGA, soon, once they have been assessed, will begin to address them. From there on, there are, as you know, damages related to fixed installations, plant capital, equipment. All this through the procedure of the so-called RPAs, State aid in this case, after this dossier has been established, will be submitted to the European Commission for approval and will, of course, be approved, to see how we will cover these losses through the state budget. The procedures are faster than they were in previous years. You have specifically referred to cases involving late payment, debt and fines. Already, since these areas have been judged to be in urgent need, the relevant decision of the Minister of Finance has been followed and covers all these areas, giving them the opportunity to pay for them. You say six months. Yes, indeed, it cannot under the law be allowed to do more than six months. But if, on the way, they are found to be unable to serve them, because the wounds have not been healed, we will see it, it will continue, i.e. the situation will be renewed in an emergency. You referred to the programme for public investment in the Peloponnese and in particular to infrastructure projects. What I am telling you is that there is now a budget throughout the Peloponnese of EUR 20.2 million for appropriations for damages. Of these are directly available for this year's EUR 1.4 million and, of course, what has been absorbed today is very little. We are waiting for the relevant bodies, particularly in local government, to submit proposals to us to deal with them. Now, as far as the Ministry of Interior is concerned: this has also adopted a decision on the municipalities in the wider region, which have been damaged, to be able to make a sum of EUR 1,23 million, which is available for these programmes and has thus far only absorbed EUR 315 000. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, today's answer, in our view, does not at all cover the needs created after the floods there. Of course, the Government tells you - you did not say this here today - like the previous ones, a well-known motto, as our people say, that it is the extreme weather. Uh, no, Minister. We say that it is the extreme anti-grass policy, and yours and the previous ones, which leaves the state unarmed to these phenomena. We ask in particular, Mr Minister: is it really the weather that closed one and a half days by the national road Tripolis - Kalamata and Gargalia - Romanos? It is the extreme weather phenomena that, as I told you, a two-year-old road becomes a vast sea. Minister, is it the extreme weather phenomena that especially on the Gargalia - Roman road for ten kilometers, is there no sewage pipe and any shaft that ends up in the rainwater? Minister, is it the extreme weather phenomena, which in most cases, particularly in poor neighbourhoods, of Kalamata and elsewhere, are not necessary and are flooding with the first rain in the autumn of the whole region? Minister, especially for roads, we must stress that the workers, the people's layers pay for their construction and then pay for the use. There are no sewers, but if you go this road, it's full of tolls, Minister. We therefore say that it is the anti-popular policy that is to blame. Of course, we don't have any delusion. We also call on the workers in the region and the residents not to deceive that there may be projects in this barbaric system of capitalism. I said that all these projects are in response to the NRP, because they are ineligible, because, as I said, they do not leave large profits to the construction groups. You said, Minister, that recordings were under way, that assessments and all of this will be made. We ask you in particular: Where is it at the moment when we are talking about the issue of recordings throughout the Peloponnese? You also said that for those damages that the ELGA does not cover, we will go to the PSEA. First of all, I would like to say this: in Arcadia for three months there have been records and they have not been completed. If we are talking about these times, farmers will not receive compensation from the ELGA, which gives them what they cover after years. But, Minister, who are you talking about? I told you the other day, that is what our people say "lived My Ma". Because we have cases in the Peloponnese. Four years, since February 2013, PESAs have been waiting. We have said that this is a time-consuming process, which also requires the approval of the European Union. And in the end, if they get something, the wounded will get crumbs. In particular, Minister, a myth has been destroyed, because you have gone to go through a matter that, you know, the European Union's lupus solidarity fund cares about farmers and will be compensated for the other people's strata. There are two answers: the day before yesterday, I told you about the case of Chios. We now have another reply from the Commissioner responsible to a question from the MEPs of the JRC and for Thassos and elsewhere. They shall not be considered eligible for the damages of individuals. They only cover fires. Listen to what else it covers: it only covers, it says, air transport costs. He's gonna put us some fuel in the planes that'll fly over the fires. This is the European Union. And that's what the workers hear. In particular, there is the problem here: it says the Commissioner's answer, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes, that in order to obtain compensation, losses must exceed 1.5% of gross product at regional level. We're talking about the Peloponnese talking about tens of millions. Therefore, it is not going to take euros for those affected in the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Moraite, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u46	I shall conclude, Mr President. We say clearly that workers must draw conclusions there. I told you the other day: When the TV cameras stop and cameras shut down, they will be forgotten, as happened elsewhere, as happened in Arta three years ago. We say they have to take the case into their hands through the rural clubs, their unions, organize their struggle and demand real measures that will give relief, because their suffering will not end in this barbaric system that we live in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u47	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u48	Mr Colleagues, I would like to supplement what the affected will immediately receive that after counting on herds which have suffered a loss of grazing matter due to these disasters, they will be fed for a hundred days of feeding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u49	There are herds, not like those of Ithaca!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, do not open wounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, your speech is unfortunate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u52	Lighten the atmosphere a little! We're on our own.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u53	What I would like to say to you once again is that the Solidarity Fund, which you are constantly talking about, is not a structural fund, is a supplementary fund. And because of this function it sets certain conditions, which either we or we do not want to do so, we have to follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u54	They're ineligible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u55	As far as the Peloponnese is concerned, so that the Solidarity Fund can give it, the damage is expected to be 1.5% of GDP, i.e. 114.2 million euros. So I told you the day before, and I told you again that we will see all the damages and if they have reached that level, then we will submit. If we don't see it, if we don't prove it, how are we going to submit it? Well, it's not that big a damage. That, at least, is what our first assessments show. We'll do it, though. We'll follow it. But what is important right now is to accept a few things. You say it's not the weather's fault, it's our bad design. No one disagrees that there were projects and that there were infrastructures which had not received such attention. At this time, however, what burns you, too, burns us to see how this world, which has been hurt, will be able to stand on its feet. Well, then, we tell you and once again that we will get rid of all the possibilities. As far as infrastructure projects are concerned, I have told you that there are similar funds, as long as these funds are made sensitive, and in this case it is not just the governments concerned, it is all the bodies involved. In conclusion, I would like to say to you, my dear fellow Member, that your agony we share it, but we have a difference, that we are trying to serve what is in pain. You "fire in the air" and you know that the shots in the air do not have the effect you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u56	In the heart!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u57	All right! He was in his word upstairs. The Minister is always noble. It's not like they're shooting in the air. They have another point of view. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-26-S1-commons.u58	With the consent of the House at 18.48 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 27 September 2016 at 10.00 p.m., on the agenda to be distributed.
