ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, we shall begin the sitting. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are on the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate on the principle, articles and all of the proposal for a law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: "Measures to relieve the people's family". Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a law falls within the scope of Article 73(3) of the Constitution. I would like to remind my fellow Members that, in accordance with that provision, Article 73(3) is not introduced for discussion of a proposal for a law, since it involves, to the detriment of the public, the local authorities or other legal persons governed by public law, costs or the reduction of revenue or their property in order to give a wage or pension or a general benefit to a person. I must tell you that the practice we have been following over the years is to discuss these proposals for legislation without going to the vote. We are proposing them because this is the way - with the debate in the House - in the parties, in all the Members of Parliament, but also in the government to take up positions on serious issues to which the legislative proposals are referred and try to regulate, as does the present one. Before giving the floor to the JRC rapporteur, I have to make a statement to this House. The Ministers of Finance, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance and Home Affairs, have submitted on 13-7-2016 a draft law: ‘Amendments to the National Customs Code to strengthen the fight against trafficking in tobacco and manufactured tobacco and establish a coordinating centre to combat trafficking, harmonise Greek legislation to Council Decision 2009/017/JHA of 30 November 2009 on the use of information technology for customs purposes and other provisions of the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and to incorporate into national legislation Articles 15, 16 and 18 of Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would just like to stress here that we, as a JRC, disagree with this procedure and, indeed, remind ourselves of previous positions of the coalition, where he himself disagreed with this procedure, namely that legislative initiatives should not be allowed by the opposition, that they should be introduced and voted on by the House. The Constitution, if you read, says exactly that thing. This is not about the benefit of a particular person. We are talking here about a folk category, about all the people's families. So, from this point of view, this initiative goes beyond the limits of the Constitution's ban and, in our view, should also be discussed and voted on. From this point of view, we insist on and consider it challenging, Mr President, that only the government should have the option of legislative initiative, even by means of an act of legislation and the urgency procedure, and that opposition cannot bring and vote for legislative proposals in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u3	I understand what you are saying and I can say that to some extent I share it. But this practice has been followed for years. If we think that something more constructive can be done, we can discuss it at the Conference of Presidents and perhaps we could also go to such a decision. Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. The JRC is coming back with the proposal for a law providing for the relief of the people's families. This proposal reminds us that we submitted it again in 2012, was discussed in 2013 and rejected by the then co-existence of the New Democracy - PASOK - DIMMAR. SYRIZA at that time - we recall - as an official opposition had voted in favour of the proposal. The proposal was discussed in committee and, of course, there was a rejection of the proposal with a single perception from all the other parties, a concept of who needs to be lost and who needs to be protected. You are all applying a protection shield to the system, to the monopolistic groups and to the banking groups. The arguments about the unrealisticness of the proposal in the current circumstances come to justify your class choice. The regulatory framework formulated by one law is worse than the other, the main aim of which is to secure banks from the backbone and to put greater pressure on the indebted families. Today all evidence reveals that the situation is worse for highly indebted people's families. As a result of the regulatory framework adopted, on the basis of the third memorandum, in conjunction with the ongoing attack on people's incomes, it is more than 85% of families find it difficult to repay the instalments of loans. The regulatory framework established, as a shrinking of any protection framework, facilitated the auctioning of first home. We note that for the vast majority at this time, living conditions have changed rapidly. It has become even greater, its position has deteriorated. Long-term unemployment, wage reductions and pensions, generalised elastic forms of work, tax pay creates conditions of hell for the vast majority of our people. According to the data of ERGANIS, at least 60% of the employees were made redundant in 2015. In this way, the needs of capital are met by sweeping the lives of workers and the people. The measures, however, do not end at the expense of the people. The SYRIZA - ANEL co-government with the European Union and the representatives of capital continue and implement all the laws of the previous governments of the New Democracy and of PASOK, and they added the Armageddon to the third Memorandum of Measures. After the pension blade comes the new attack on the workers. You want a new minimum wage for 2017, which the government will decide, even below what the previous New Democracy-PASOK conflict has shaped, namely the EUR 586 and the EUR 511 for young people, which you think is a great amount. You want it to be without an allowance, without three years. You want the tenth and fourteenth wages to be abolished in the private sector too. You want a fixed minimum wage, unchanged for all working life. You seek to put a definitive tomb on the collective labour contracts by regulating for operational purposes only beyond the individual dominance or associations of persons who have created conditions of gallery. Any collective agreements you want to be below the minimum wage. You plan to increase the level of redundancies to 10% and without restrictions on collective redundancies. You seek to curb trade union freedoms by abolishing the protection of those who are leading and organizing the struggle of workers, the so-called trade unionists. In fact, you want to limit, remove the right to strike, introduce the recompense of employers. The capital requires full subordination to its choices and the government is discussing precisely in this direction. All the measures implemented and planned by the European Union - Government - are unhappily in the lives of workers and the people. Data published reveal the continued poorness of workers and pensioners, as a result of the choice of governments and parties to support capital at all costs and pass all these overturns that it requires to reduce the price of labour force, recover and enter the sphere of profitability. According to the figures that are relentless, in a total of eight million workers and pensioners, seven million are now living with net earnings of less than 12 thousand euros a year, with a large percentage being below the poverty line and living in total poverty. In order to ensure the debt burden of capitalists, as well as the financing of capitalist growth in the next period, the donor, in other words, to the monopolistic groups, as reflected in the development law with a fatal billion in saviors, so-called investors, was introduced. The cutter relates to main wages, pensions, preferential allowances, as well as cuts from health, education and welfare. All of this is coming to worsen even further the position of workers and the people, especially those who were forced to borrow in the period of growth. The overcompensation of the people's households was made in conditions of capitalist development in Greece and even at a high rate. Family incomes from work, from their employment, which were much higher, could not meet their basic needs. They resorted to the loans for their health, their children’s studies, their shelter. Today, under capitalist crisis, this overcompensation cannot be met by the people's family, at a time when you have cut her life, you have imposed the savage tax burden. You drive thousands of folk families in the toenails of the coral, in the various funds, which are ready to crush it. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government delivers them red loans with incalculable consequences on the lives of poor, indebted families. Hundreds of thousands of workers, self-employed, poor farmers and farmers who cannot respond to their debts have literally been despaired. They're in danger of losing their homes in auctions. The official figures of the Secretariat for Public Revenue show the scale of the problem. The unpaid taxes and fines to the DUs reached EUR 1,254 billion for May, extinguing the new dues this year to EUR 5,584 billion and all the debts, old and young, to EUR 88,889 billion. If there is no intervention for the haircut and the long-term settlement of these loans in combination with the ban on auctioning and seizures, the next few years thousands of populous households will catch a bottom, they will flow into absolute impoverishment, they will lose the remaining ones. The situation is marginal. You're all admitting it. But what do you all think? That the JRC's proposal is unrealistic. That it is unrealistic, because its implementation presupposes burdens on banks, i.e. capital. That's what you all come up with. So let them lead to impoverishment. The JRC's proposal for a law precisely shifts the weight of the crisis to the banking groups. It provides for a drastic reduction in the debts of the people's families to the banks. This position of the JRC rejected all other parties and they chose sides. The JRC's proposal for highly indebted people's households is consistent with its overall proposal, with its overall strategy. It responds to the people's needs and their satisfaction. It is about both the information and the late loans of the people's family. It provides for a haircut both of interest and of capital. It provides for a different approach to the unemployed than the others. We put a ceiling up to a ceiling of loans for housing, consumer and credit cards and business loans. It provides for the cessation of seizures, as well as any enforcement act or other necessary measures. We have a question of terms and conditions of business as well as of agricultural agricultural loans. We are raising the question of protecting and exempting the mortgages that poor farmers have had against the Rural Bank, which has now become Piraeus. What does the JRC's proposal that we are debating today? Firstly, from each type of loan due by credit institutions to remove all types of interest, any amount from the restructuring and recapitalisation of any form for families with an annual family income of up to EUR 40,000, increased by EUR 5,000 for each child. Secondly, from the debts of the people's households, as they are formed after the application of the above, to delete an amount corresponding to 50% of them, since the amount of the loans does not exceed EUR 200,000 for housing loans, EUR 30,000 for consumer loans and EUR 20,000 for credit cards. Thirdly, the debts of the local households to credit institutions remaining after the above write-offs would cease to be ‘born’ interest for as long as the economic crisis lasts. Fourthly, payment shall be suspended for the duration of the financial crisis, if they concern the unemployed. Fifthly, the debts of the HSE to credit institutions, which relate to their professional activity, as they are formed after the application of all the above write-offs, are reduced by 30% if they maintain their business, and by 50% if they have been closed and are unemployed and for loans up to EUR 300,000. Sixthly, the debts of poor farmers and fishermen to credit institutions concerned with their professional activity are also reduced by 30% and by up to EUR 3 000 000. The State’s responsibility shall ensure that credit institutions provide non-resident agricultural loans to small and medium-sized farmers and farmers to respond to the market for crop supplies for the growing season. Seventhly, since the entry into force of the proposal for a law, it has automatically ceased any act of enforcement or other binding measure by credit institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law tabled by the JRC is realistic, because it responds precisely to the anxiety, the insuperable difficulties of the people's family, because it serves its needs. But what did the G.P. understand, as he has signed the "THEWERING OF CONTINUERS" and describes himself with his signature? It says that the JRC tabled the proposal for propaganda. This issue, as it gives the JRC, will be resolved in socialism. It is worthy of his wages and those who read him let their conclusion be taken from those who are active in the rotten system. Of course, the relevant Minister of Government SYRIZA - ANEL, Mr Stathakis, directly informed the committee that the proposal is not possible because it transfers the costs to the banks. For these reasons, and for the needs of capital, it is not realistic to propose, as well as for those who want to protect, to save our country's financial system, of course, by sacrificing the highly indebted local households, professionals and poor farmers. The claims that the regulatory framework facilitates and lightens overdue households not only are not proven, but also the evidence we have presented shows the deterioration of the situation. It is inconsistent and the interests of banks and capitalist businesses to ensure that the interests of the working class and the people are met. The interests are conflicting. Loaning was an opportunity for banks to gain huge profits. The financial system with its action exacerbated the problems faced by the people. Another aspect that emerged during the committee's debate is to whom the JRC's proposal for a law refers. Its basis is for workers with fixed work and structured labour rights, those who had and were overturned by the great anti-corruption attack on capital, the European Union and the parties that serve it. The JRC has a clear line of struggle against the anti-popular, anti-popular overthrows imposed. It has never been compromised and it will never be compromised. On the same line, it calls on all workers and their trade unions not to take down the bar of their needs and their demands, not to compromise, as all of you are calling on them by reducing their wages and pensions, by smuggling labour and insurance conquests, with the working jungle, not to compromise what you are calling them to become accustomed to living at EUR 300 or 400, with a miserable life. The crisis is capitalist. The debt is the capitalists. The JRC is fighting the crisis for the wealthy rule to pay it off the profits. Even in the time of the crisis, he made more than EUR 140 billion, wealth created by the workers and the people's layers of sweat and blood. You want to secure the consent of the people to reach the bottom so that the monopolies and business groups can regain their profits. We invite him to an organization everywhere to bring him up. That is why we are bringing forward the proposal for a law to make an estate in the very working class, the self-employed, the poor farmers, the farmers and the fishermen. And we call on them to question the action and role of monopolistic and business groups. In this way of questioning the burdens on him can be stripped off of it. This political support for capital, banks, monopolistic groups leads to destruction and despair. The final solution for each people's family is to help the political system of capital to become powerless. The alliance of the workers, the self-employed in the city and the village is also being strengthened and weakened by the support line of the monopolistic groups. The organisation and the struggle to curb the attack will have better effects if it is in conflict with the strategic choices of capital with the participation of the country in the European Union and, of course, for exiting it, for unilateral debt deletion, if it is on a collapsing line, with the JRC's proposal for a definitive exemption from the power of monopolies from the capitalist production method for socialising the means of production for the people's power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u5	Thank you Mr Katsotis, rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece. We proceed with Mrs Catherine Iglezi, SYRIZA rapporteur, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the JRC's proposal for a law: 'Measures to relieve the people's family'. It is a proposal for a law coming from Opposition and its debate is proof that the tools of parliamentary control and political dialogue are being exploited and promoted. The decent living of workers and pensioners, the relief of people's households and families with low incomes from unbearable burdens is a matter for all of us. The fight against unemployment and the recovery of poverty are a prerequisite for our society to remain alive. They are the cornerstone of maintaining social cohesion, the country's sustainable and democratic development, and the exit from the crisis. They are a substantial programme commitment by SYRIZA but also a key aim for government policy. Therefore, no one could disagree with the substance of this proposal for a law. This, ladies and gentlemen, because the defence of workers' conquests, the productive reconstruction of the country, the decommissioning of the country from the debt, despite the suffocating framework of the Memorandum of Understanding, is a classic option for SYRIZA and the Government. It has been made clear by the government's legislative work that for us it is not just the big business plans, but also the social state. The main aim is to save resources for fairer, more efficient and faster redistribution of the sections of the population that really need it. Our vision is fair growth, i.e. sustainable and democratic. Sustainable, because it does not exhaust natural and human resources, but it ensures that they are maintained and reproduced. Democratic, because it means sharing the benefits, deepening democratic institutions, integrating society into political life. The vision of fair growth involves the gradual integration into the production of all the potential in the grey unemployment zone. No one can go along with the growth of the economy if unemployment remains at the level of the disastrous policies of the previous period. And we insist that we speak, ladies and gentlemen, about a social state and about another type of growth and redistribution of burdens and wealth, in contrast to the policies of the New Democracy and PASOK, which led to massive poverty in the Greek people, contrary to the policies of 2010-2015 that recorded hundreds of thousands of knots in small and medium-sized enterprises and sent the majority to unemployment. Today we are discussing the JRC's proposal for a law to relieve people's households, not because the proposal itself can be implemented, but because it is a major political issue that concerns us. We are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, although this has not been caused by SYRIZA. Excessive households and businesses are a product of the economic crisis and neoliberal policies of 2010-2015. At that time, there was the greatest recession in the Greek economy and the highest rates of deinvestment. Today, SYRIZA is called upon to manage this situation. It is called upon to prevent the further impoverishment of the Greeks and to put the country in a development path. It is called upon, despite the suffocating framework of the Memorandum of Understanding, to proceed. And it does so to political initiatives that prevent the collapse of the public structures, bodies and services of the social state. The social state today, ladies and gentlemen, has been in this situation because of mismanagement, as well as hard and targeted political austerity of the previous governments. Those who, in previous years, had the dogma of the small state, those who have sent to the margins of unemployment and to thousands of our fellow citizens, those who have excluded thousands of people from health care, come today to announce solidarity actions and even with a slogan: 'Nobody in the margin'. This, ladies and gentlemen, of counter-population, is a pity. You are blocking, gentlemen, the people you have sent with your policies to the margin of life, who have reached their wages and pensions below the limits of poverty, who have fired them, Mr Mitsotakis, and now you are coming to take them off the margin. Did you discover solidarity? Probably a little late. SYRIZA and his MPs have been strengthening and working for solidarity structures since 2012, and today the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is doing so, which fortunately is not socially analgesic like you, which you said at the time: "To God, there is no humanitarian crisis". Apparently, you admit that you did not manage to create a sustainable economy that supports a sustainable social policy so that now you are asking for solidarity actions. Really, what money are you going to fund them with? With the loans of "KERYKA"? After all, social policy and popular families have never been in your ideology and your policy. In neoliberalism that you faithfully serve, the market law 'whoever survives' applies. The proposal for a law that we are debating today is trying to bring about a solution to the existing problem of overcompensation for people's households and its inability to respond to the daily burdens. However, ladies and gentlemen of the JRC, the people's family for us is not a family with an annual taxable income of up to EUR 50,000. It used to be. The Minister told you to do so in committee. This claim is not left. Today 85% of taxpayers report income to 40,000 euros. Three out of five farmers declare income less than 5,000 euros. Eight out of ten free professionals declare income less than EUR 15 000. With regard to non-performing exposures to consumer loans and credit cards, 90% is up to 20,000 euros. In housing loans, 95% is up to 200,000 euros. In loans to free professionals, 97% is up to 250,000 euros. In small and medium-sized enterprises, 80% is up to 250,000 euros. 67% of the major companies' loans are up to 250,000 euros. It is clear from the evidence that the definition you give the people's household and its obligation does not correspond to today's reality. The definition you give corresponds to 90% of Greeks. If we are talking about such size, we are obviously not talking about a people's family, but about the whole society except for a few exceptions. The people's household has a real low income. It's hard to maintain. He's receiving state aid. Just because the people's household and decent living is a real agony for SYRIZA, a series of measures have been taken aimed at protecting him and ensuring his dignity. These are measures aimed at creating the necessary regulatory framework for the management of overdue households and red loans, which respond to the needs of society, in order to prevent the free market from giving its own solutions, which would at present be disastrous for society, would impoverish peoples and would despair a large part of the population. The international political context with neoliberalism attacking the social state and the long-term conquests of workers makes it difficult - it is true - to work a government that has another vision and wants to move in a different direction. And much more, when it comes to dealing with a domestic establishment that works for the benefit of local and international capital. The proposal for a law aims to transfer the burden that has been created over the years of the economic crisis from public households to financial institutions. If the JRC's proposal for a law is implemented, all loans would be mocked up to 50% indiscriminately, without any distinction being made between service and non-performing, and banks would have to bear similar losses, which means that new, direct and colossal amounts would need to be recapitalisationed. However, when we say that this proposal is unrealistic and that such a development would not be for the benefit of people's households, we do not defend the banking system, ladies and gentlemen. Unilateral actions have never been part of SYRIZA's policy, as has our exit from the euro. From this, however, until we say that we are operating for the benefit of the banks and at the expense of the workers there is a great deal of distance. The policy that has so far been implemented is based on a more proportionate and optimal burden-sharing between banks, borrowers and the state. In fact, a significant effort has been made to reduce the burden on borrowers by creating levels of protection. The maximum protection of low incomes and people's housing has been achieved. The effort being made is to avoid successive bank recapitalisations, without regulating the issue of red loans, which would create greater recapitalisation needs. We have experienced the corresponding policies of the Governments of New Democracy in recent years, PASOK - DIMAR. So we are in the face of a completely different and the other integrated policy aimed at enabling the world to put the money back on the banks, investors to reinvest and give space and time to unfold the development strategy. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not a defence of the financial system, but of the protection of workers, pensioners, traders, farmers and the whole of society. In order to facilitate the locally debited households, the Government amended the Katseli Law for the highly indebted households in November 2015 and the protectionist arrangements of the law form part of 65% of the borrowers. In fact, for the weaker economic cases, public aid was envisaged to be able to respond. By amending Law No.4354/15 for the sale and administration of loans from non-banking institutions, the vast majority of all categories of loans linked to the first residence are protected from the sale until 2018, since it has an objective value of up to EUR 140,000, i.e. not only housing loans, but also consumer, repairs, freelance professionals and business loans. Colleagues - and it is very important - that this humanitarian crisis programme established by L.4320/2015. This programme has covered four hundred and five thousand of our fellow people and continues. Moreover, the unemployment card is a pass for the unemployed in all public transport. The unemployed are no longer confined to his home, but he has access everywhere to claim their place in society and in the labour market. The social income of solidarity will continue with its universal implementation in January 2017. Two hundred and fifty community centres were set up in the municipalities of the country for the reception, service and interconnection of vulnerable citizens with all social protection programmes and services implemented in their area of operation. Services, housing, feeding, social support and reintegration programmes are being implemented under Law 4254/2014 and have been extended for 2016 as well. The solidarity card has been renewed nine times and concerns a hundred forty - seven thousand ninety - seven rightholders. Revenue subsidy has been granted to twenty - one thousand percent of ninety - eight beneficiaries of the Humanization Crisis Programme. The consultation of the Ministry of Labour with the thirteen regions of the country has been completed and cooperation with the relevant services of the European Social Fund in order to specialise national social protection policies by operating structures and actions within the framework of Regional Operational Programmes and Regional Social Integration Strategies and in particular the Thematic Objective 9, "Promoting thematic inclusion and Combating Poverty". The structures of which will be subsidised are: Community Centres, Social Pan-shops, Seating Structures, Social Parks, Daily Host and Housing Centers for the Homeless, Day Care for the Elderly and Care Centres for the Elderly. It is estimated that all the structures in Greece will be open to the thousands of five hundred jobs. The minimum guaranteed income measure is part of a wider political overthrow of extreme poverty, it is also surrounded by other measures and the operation of structures, as I have already said and aims to make its beneficiaries economically active and not eternally subsidised. From the government's declarations, the attempt to create an appropriate out-of-court framework for out-of-court settlements for highly indebted small, medium-sized and large enterprises and free traders is still apparent in replacing the Nines, which failed to implement it. In particular, the aim is to ensure equal and fair treatment of small and large debtors as a whole. The Government will guarantee the basic principles of sustainability control and restructuring tools for business reorganisation and the decent living of free professionals. Furthermore, the review of the Code of Conduct of Banks to address gaps and weaknesses, to become accessible and operational in the direction of strengthening the protection it offers to those who really need is a worthwhile initiative. Colleagues and colleagues, I believe that with the proposal for a law we are debating today, it is understood by everyone that, apart from the restrictive framework of an unwanted compromise, the actions we can take to relieve the majority of the Greek people are many and multi-level. In this fight, I think that the vigilant controversy about blocking policies and measures that are positive for the people is not for anyone's benefit. The JRC's proposal for a law, although it cannot be accepted because of the given domestic and international economic situation, brings us back the actions that we can take together to find the people at the forefront again, but this time not by protesting, but by taking advantage of policies with deep social and democratic features. The cooperation of progressive and left-wing forces towards the universal domination of the neoliberal dogma can only bring benefits to workers and the people's families. Colleagues and colleagues of the JRC, I have heard your rapporteur speak of Armageddon at work, and I wonder if they are your wishful desires, because in the planning of the government the opposite is and once again you will be Cassandras. The people must stand firm on their feet - the revolution does not make it impoverished - so that they can claim their rights for a better future for him and for the next generations. So let us work together in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mrs Catherine Iglezi, SYRIZA rapporteur. The rapporteur for the New Democracy, Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's proposal for a law of the JRC enables us to place ourselves in the usual, everyday lives of the people's families, of the middle class, of the people who are fighting hard in a difficult economic environment, of the people who have lost their sense of security in their social and economic life, of the people who are experiencing this year's return to the recession, of high unemployment, of unprecedented tax raid, of the people who have lost hope for the future. And SYRIZA's answer to this is bilingualism. First of all, I would like to say to the SYRIZA rapporteur that it was very cheap to refer to "KRYKA" Chania, to which the honorary President of the New Democracy has already replied that this was a mortgage and with personal guarantees, not like other loans we have discussed. But let's see SYRIZA's bilingualism. We have heard the rapporteur say: 'It is clear that the proposal for a law concerns the vast majority of households, but it ignores the context in which society and the economy are evolving, a framework that credit institutions have their role. And since the Greek people have already paid for the recapitalisation of the banks, and in a tough way, we cannot accept the proposal of the JRC." On the other hand, however, Mr Dimitrios Hiralis - if you remember him - the SYRIZA rapporteur Single Social Front on April 2, 2013, rapporteur, then again on the proposal for a law of the JRC, said: "The banks rob the Greek people with robbery interest, lead to misery and desperation of the people's households. Is it possible to ask those who are sensitive to table a proposal for a law to relieve people's households if they have calculated what the banks will lose? Did you calculate," said Mr. Army, 'the consequences of your Memorandum policies? SYRIZA's question is: Where is the government bill to regulate the loans of overdue households to banks? Weren't you six months old when you cook it and kick it? How long are you going to cook it for? Didn't you get approval from the troika? Do you rule or the troika? Who is the real governor of this country? We are voting on the proposal from the JRC." That's what SYRIZA told the Greek people before the elections. When SYRIZA voted for the JRC's law proposal, we were accused of shooting - it says - to the psychopharmaceuticals the Greek people. That was the terminology of your Members. These phrases were used. So tell us now. After your own tax raid, after the reduction of the pensions we are now experiencing, the abolition of the CSR that we are now experiencing, the increase in all indirect taxes, what happened? They cut off the psychopharmaceuticals? Despite the methods of government and the delay in its debate, the JRC's proposal for a law remains timely and will continue with this government to be timely. Because the policy of SYRIZA and ANEL is not only confronting the problems of the people's families, but expanding them. A year ago SYRIZA promised dignity, decent pensions, decent wages, a decent social state. And what did he do in practice? Just the opposite. In the period from January 2015, Greece and 2015 and 2016 -- we will see for 2017 -- returned to the recession, after the recovery of 2014. The Tsipras - Varoufakis negotiation for the third memorandum - the day before yesterday - cost us EUR 86 billion. The Greek people expect to hear with the Committee of Inquiry what happened then with the famous Plan B. We heard from the Minister in his statement to the committee that he did not know about the plan. We will find out from the committee who knew and what they knew. Following the publication of the European Commission's Compliance Report, there is no doubt that the overall measures adopted by the Government, you Members of the House, already exceed EUR 9 billion. And if we lead - and nobody wants it, nobody hopes - to activate the cut, the bill will reach 12.5 billion, with a reduction in wages and pensions, public sector wages. We said from the outset, when the pension debate took place, that the government was introducing a mechanism for reducing pensions and that the government was telling us that it was making reforms. But when retired people went to the machine and put the card and took the ATM's proof and saw the reduction of their pensions in practice, you told us that the pensions were "remunerated". That's what you used. Of course, now we will see the changes that you will bring to the working environment. Because, ladies and gentlemen, you know that Mr Katrugalos' assurances only create concern for the Greek people. This is therefore the account of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. He is called upon to be paid by the people's families. Because the increases in indirect taxes do not affect the rich, they affect the socially weaker. I read today, Minister, that it will be abolished - it says - and the discount on HNVIA to those who receive interest payments - listen - EUR 300 a year! So if you have 300 euros a year from interest, you are rich - obviously, I do not think there will be any disagreement on this - and therefore you are not entitled to a discount for HISPIA. That is, I imagine, about the highest social classes in the country. But I have often stressed, ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber that sustainable social policy requires a sustainable economy, but you are unable to attract new investment to that country. You are not in a position to create the investment goal needed to combat unemployment. Just over the last sixteen months - it is good for me to say this - to implement the results of the Samara Government's efforts. Named: TAP, Greek, Asteras, PPA, regional airports. But no new work is being created, to be carried out in 2018, 2019, 2020, to support what we all want, to return to growth. For development law, things are very simple. Zero new investments in 2015, zero new investments in 2016 and 2017 and then we see. I expect an answer to a question I have asked, to see why there is a great slowdown in the control of old investments, from January 2015 until today. Ladies and gentlemen, it is timely to discuss the JRC's proposal for a law, because everything shows - and that is how it refers to many publications - that a bar of seizures and auctions starts both from Greek banks and from the public. And your government's apathy for a year and a half on red loans has been a proverb, and this apathy has led to an increase in them, since you have not managed to implement the Act, nor have you, of course, changed it. And you keep saying, since January 2015, and the SYRIZA rapporteur said today that "new provisions will come, we will build the Bank of Greece code", while the red loans are now rocky, not only, ladies and gentlemen of the JRC, for the people's families, but for all Greek families now. Finally, under the framework of the proud negotiation, which we all know its results and under the pressure of lenders, you brought the arrangement for selling all loans, all red loans to foreign funds. And don't tell me that you've taken until 2018 an extension for the first residence, because we understand that the funds until they're ready to buy and sell them, they want one, two years to organize. So, those things that you were pro-electionally accusing us of doing, we never did. We didn't believe it, we never wanted to do it. Finally, your government, the SYRIZA - ANEL government, did it. That's what I told committee Monday and the government, instead of answering its own things, did the easy solution, attacked the previous government. The Minister of Economy has unsuccessfully tried to respond to our fair criticism, but, Minister, you have two basic mistakes in your rhetoric. Firstly, you are confusing deliberate periods of governance, ruthlessly combining the period after 2012, the Antony Samaras period with the first years of the memorandum, where a different sample of economic policy was followed in which we disagreed. Do you want me to tell you something, Minister? It's just the mixture you choose. The first and third Memorandums have one common feature. 2/3 is based on an increase in taxes, leading to a recession and a vicious cycle. And secondly, you ignore a very basic principle and so each government must be judged on what it has received and what it has handed over. That's how we'll be judged, so you'll be judged. We therefore received a country in 2012 with a double deficit. We delivered a double surplus both in 2013 and 2014. And the primary surplus of the previous government was not theoretical, it wasn't on the Treasury papers, it was translated into a social dividend that went to the people's families. If you're criticising it wasn't enough, I'll agree. Nothing is enough in this crisis. But the surplus has been achieved and it has been mobilized. Let's go to the recession. We received a country with a recession in 2012, 7.3%. We delivered in 2014 a growth country of 0.7%. A turn of eight units of GDP. That's what we received, that's what we delivered. You, instead of constantly talking about New Democracy, talk about your own work. You received a country with growth at 0.7%. Let's see what happened from there. You also said that for overdue households and overdue businesses it was not the current economic crisis, it was in 2010 and 2012. So should we also congratulate Mr Varoufakis? We should invite him here, give him a merchandise for his very good negotiation and for the 'rules' that he is now going through because of your own unresolved policy! The truth is that as much as we practice, we will never get to you, because so much lies in such short time I believe that no other party has said to Greece - nor to Europe - in the last fifty years. Now let's go see your own zero recession, to which you referred. The international context in 2015 was positive, it was favourable to the economy of the country. Only after the price drop from $60 per barrel to $30 has Greece saved 4 billion euros, about 2% to 2.5% of GDP. Moreover, given developments in the wider region of the south-eastern Mediterranean, we had an 8% increase in tourist traffic, which must give 2.5 to 3 billion and 1.5% to GDP. At the same time, according to the study by the JEP - May 2014 - the country has produced new investments of EUR 37 billion since 2012. This study deserves to be read because it says by name the investments. It's not a macroeconomic study. It's a record of certain investments. It is a study of the JRC in May 2014. These investments would also affect in 2015. So everyone expected - as well as all international analysts - growth in Greece in 2015 around 3%. And what did we do with the Capital Controls? Shrinking by 0.3%. So you fell 3.3% below where the Greek economy should have been in 2015. That's not what you call a zero recession. You're more like no contact with reality. And as to the issue of humanitarian aid, Minister, I remember that when SYRIZA was in the opposition, you had made a flag of dealing with the humanitarian crisis with the Thessaloniki programme. You were talking about tens of billions. Impressive things! And finally in 2014 we gave 700 thousand households 450 million, and you have given 227 million since you were elected. Just stuff. Don't tell us what you're going to do in the future. When you do, come here and congratulate you. We have also moved on to the introduction of the minimum guaranteed income, which at first you have abandoned, after you have condemned it, now you are applying it, but with a great delay for the bad people. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA rapporteur told the committee that her parliamentary group agrees with the substance of the proposal of the Communist Party of Greece, but if she adopts it, the banking system will collapse. And you yourself, Minister, said that it is not a left-wing policy to identify a family with a income of 40 thousand euros as a people's family. Is this theater of irrationality going to continue with it for a long time yet? Are you going to be with the ranger and the constable? To finish the theories, in order for there to be sustainable recovery, we need higher investments. Unfortunately, with your policy, you are firing out investment. With the Capital Controls you created an extra investment divide. No one disagrees that the financial system and its stability can and must make a decisive contribution to covering this gap. The banks are now in charge of this enormous responsibility to ensure financial stability, which is a prerequisite for the Greek economy's development work. But you must also understand that the period of irresponsible and imprudent opposition is over. You've been closing almost two years, and now, lately, all you've been dealing with is the election cooking, how you're gonna pick up the beans, and how you're gonna oppose the opposition to the opposition. What we heard in committee on Monday has not been said before. When we were government, it was us, now that you're government, it's us again. It would be funny if it wasn't ridiculous. And one last thing, Minister, to be in time. You've been to China recently. It's positive. But you didn't bring anything new. You laid on the footsteps of Kostas Karamanlis and Antonis Samaras in a carpet that we had shaped and you didn't find a single word to say at the press conference in the announcement. So little psychiatry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u9	Thank you to Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis, rapporteur of the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to Mr Panagiotaros, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question report of Friday 15 July 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1126-12-7-2016 topical question by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Chryssolou Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the relocation procedures of the National Library of Greece (U.E.).). 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1114/11-7-2016 topical question of the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mrs Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the status of using milk powder in the manufacture of Greek yoghurt. 3. The 1122/11-7-2016 topical question of Attica of the People's League - Golden Dawn, Ilias Kasidiari to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the "criminal and terrorist organisations that act undisturbed at the most central point in the capital". 4. The 1119/11-7-2016 topical question of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the cuts and delays in the award of pensions. 5. The 1129-12-7-2016 topical question by MEP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, on the case of the company "Marinopoulos S.A.". 6. The 1120/11-7-2016 topical question by MP A'Thessaloniki of the Union of Central Banks Mr Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the fire protection system of the Sheikh Sou. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1127-12-2016 topical question by MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition, Evangelias (Valias) Vagonakis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the disasters in the olive cultivation of Crete in this spring. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1115/11-7-2016 topical question by MP Evros of New Democracy Mr Anastasios Prussaki to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the operation of the Byzantine Dumot Museum. 3. The 1121/11-7-2016 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Finance, on the unconstitutional provision on the rights of the taxpayer. 4. The 1113/11-7-2016 topical question of the Independent MP from Athens Mr. Efstathiou (Stathhi) Panagoulis to the Minister of Finance, on recent reports on undeclared activity of Greek betting companies. Mr. Ilias Panayotaros, special speaker of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, has the floor for fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin to remind the various 'democrats', human rights defenders, who had been running to defend or endorse the release of the terrorists of '17 November', that, as today, twenty-four years ago, Thana Axarlian fell from a shell of '17 November'. All these years 'comrades' the same tape and you haven't learned or said it out. You should read it a letter - a letter from inside. Today, on the occasion of the birthday of the 'hard' - within many introductory - seventeen-hour negotiation that Mr Tsipras had with the lenders last year - which, if we judge from the herpes he has made in his mouth and from the results, were probably not lenders, more like rapists - we are only called upon to discuss a proposal for a law which you had voted in favour of as opposition. The size of your hypocrisy has no precedent. Today's issue is, as you say, 'Measures to relieve the people's family'. Let's take one of those words. The term'relief' is something else that comes to our minds. Certainly not what you have done with the incredible memorial measures that you have brought in the last sixteen months. The term 'free family' is a world originality on the part of the JRC - at a pan-European level, at a global level - where 'old family' is a couple, which has 3,500 euros income per month, which is increased for every child. Rather this proposal for a law should be addressed to Switzerland or Norway and not to Greece, where the vast majority of Greek citizens - close to 80% of our country's citizens - at the moment has incomes that do not exceed EUR 1,000 per month, in order to be more realistic than what is happening in our country. We believe that it is a shameful hypocrisy on the part of SYRIZA and IAN the debate on this proposal for a law because of the timing, firstly because, after a memorandum - the most ruthless of all - the multiplier of plans and a large number of measures, which in essence are increasingly stirring against Greek citizens, come and agree with a proposal for a law on the relief of the people's family. And of course only for discussion we agree, as the SYRIZA rapporteur has said, but we are not voting. Bourlanges on the left-wing coalition, against the neoliberal neck and other things that we have heard from the majority rapporteur in the committee. And something like that has told us now within the Greek Parliament. Because the real numbers are disgusting. And I mean those numbers that you used against Coron when you were in Civic Anti-Civilisation, but now you have made them a garrison, for the hundreds of thousands of our compatriots who leave home, for the thousands of others who continue and commit themselves every day, for the fact that more and more businesses are closing down in the next few months, now with the new tax race, with the new HICPIA, with the income tax, we will have much more tragic results for all Greek citizens, for those who have left home, for those who have been in the country, for those who have so far been in the intensive state, but it seems that they will not be able to make the year and for all, except those who have little benefit from this situation. But that's not news for you anymore. You bury it. You're missing it. We also need to comment here on the disgrace that has happened with SIEMENS, where we see the present Protestant Opposition, the main master of all these SIEMENS scandals, swinging the finger and blaming the government and the government to say what New Democracy and PASOK did earlier with SIEMENS. The result, however, is one, and it is the same result as the offshore, where, in essence, with this wrong vote on an article in a bill and its correction, the only one who comes out won is whoever was involved, who will naturally come out of oil. This seems now to be the case with the 'SIEMENS', regardless of the classrooms between you. The fact is that the trial has been postponed indefinitely, with a very close risk of limitation, since we have been close to twenty years since the beginning of this disgrace. And there will be oil for the various Mandelis, who have taken hundreds of thousands of hatreds in their personal accounts, the Tsukats who have admitted that the millions of euros were being taken to the PASOK offices, the various current Presidents of the New Democracy, who have justified the hatreds of "SIEMENS" of hundreds of thousands of euros with post-paid invoices as supplies and various other such strings. But let the Greek people see that to understand who it supports and who it should support for the truth of things. In this proposal for a law, which simply does not come to the vote, a large part is devoted to the banks and we say that one should be done to the other. Firstly, there are thousands of more final court rulings in favour of borrowers and not just for humanitarian reasons, that is, for someone who is already destroyed, but for all categories of loans, for all categories of citizens. The Constitution of the Greek State - and we will tell you constantly, until you understand it - says in Article 95: "The administration..." - means the State - "... has an obligation to comply with the judicial decisions..." - that is, to these thousands of judicial decisions, which are in favour of borrowers and against banks - "... violation of that obligation by the State, gives rise to responsibility for every competent body, as laid down by law." And the law lays down the necessary measures to ensure that the administration is complied with. This means that the Greek state, the government, should take these court rulings, make them law of the state, run in this direction and facilitate the millions of Greek citizens, where the most important problem they have, is loans to banks. Another very important thing that should be done if we want to talk about a real recovery of the economy, which will of course really relieve the millions of our fellow citizens, is bypassing the banks in all the actions that are being taken to develop either the primary sector or to facilitate or anything. You do the opposite: anything must go through the many bankrupt banks. And when most of the Greek citizens are on the "black" list, as you can see, they can't have any of these few or many benefits. I would also like to comment on what Mr Stournaras said, who came here the day before yesterday to the House, to the relevant committees and told us things. Mr. Stournaras, the fully failed Governor of the Commercial Bank, the fully failed Minister of Finance, the completely failed Governor of the Bank of Greece, as all indicators have a course downwards, told us that debts will be repaid, until 2017, in a year and a half from now, when Greek citizens, who owe them the Greek public huge sums, cannot afford to pay for the next fifteen days. And this vicious, rotten, dirty Greek state does not repay them, does not accept that Greek citizens should be set off against the state and the Greek state towards the citizens. No, he's not accepting anything at all. He's giving some money with the dropper. We have also heard that the debts will firstly be repaid to very large companies and then to the small ones. This is a tragic mistake, because as we know and as we are constantly telling you - and we will continue to tell you - the real pillars of every national economy are the small and medium-sized ones, and not the very large ones, who are now able to be here and tomorrow to leave and go elsewhere, whether they be their companies, their ships, their services or anything else. We have also heard the new Republic's rapporteur say about the banks' recapitalisation. Three recapitalisations have been made in recent years, tens of billion euros. The Greek people were loaned to give them to the many - I repeat - bankrupt, these lousy bankers, who took the money of the Greek people and loaned and gave hundreds of millions of euros to the New Democracy and PASOK, whose loans are not up to 90%, 95% of them. More than two hundred million owes the New Democracy, more than two hundred million owes and the PASOK owes it. And they have the nerve and they come here and tell us how the recovery of the economy should work when only the two of them have five hundred million euros a year to the Greek people. We have heard the hypocrisy of the New Democracy, which votes for everything and what the Memorandum of All SYRIZA brings along with the Independent Greeks. They're voting for them. Most bills go by more than two hundred votes. But they're criticizing, so we can talk. We see, in other words, that there is what was the dream of lenders, corpses, bankers, an informal universal government, where the majority of the Greek Parliament is voting for the resurrecting of everything in our country. You have no, as Mr Mitarakis said about SYRIZA, contact with reality. It's true. But you, too, have no connection with reality. You live elsewhere. Can't you see that the Greek people sent you where he sent you? The Greek people, with what is happening with the current conflict, should have the Civic Opposition at 60%, but it also has you in some numbers of 22% to 23%. Isn't that any of your concerns? No, of course not. It doesn't bother you, and you probably don't care. If we want to talk about real relief measures for the Greek people, from the simplest to the most fragile, I should - I repeat - have written off debts, which has been done in the past in two stages of history in the 20th century. But what can we do? That's what the bad guys did. Good people and democrats don't do that. They only serve the bankers. It must be applied, as we have said, the law of the state, the constitution in favour of borrowers anyway. It requires a direct demand for the mortgage loan, a huge amount which the Greek Government - and the previous one and the current one - is simply discussing in a number of committees, so that the time can pass. Of course, there will never be any results, because there is no will on this. They should finally understand that measures to relieve people's families when we have millions of illegal immigrants in our home country and spend billions of euros on them, we cannot have one. There should finally be national criteria at all levels of administration, at all levels of government. As far as birth is concerned, we should encourage the birth of Greeks by Greek citizens. We need to motivate the hospitals where we see an absolute mess now. We saw yesterday's disgrace, where someone was being transferred into a wheelchair and a bottle of oxygen to a farmer to go to Evia to the hospital, because there's no, he says, ambulance. We see incredible things, ranch everywhere. At the "Attica" hospital they have reached Kavala Avenue. Health is falling apart. There are no doctors anywhere, there is no staff, there is no material, there is nothing at all, and the Greek citizens, who paid decades for their insurance funds in the alpha or beta way, see that they can only have care if they have a private insurance policy. We therefore repeat bypassing the banks into any actions to restore the economy. We cannot have recapitalisation in the banks again, their shares are worth nothing at all, and we can see the nightly ads of bankrupt banks in newspapers, magazines everywhere. And what do they advertise? In other words, he gave 50,000,000 millions of people to the banks to tell us which bank will give you the POS machine faster or if he has an app for the cell phone so that you don't wait in line to pay your bill and he'll let you know just before you go. For 50,000,000,000,000 was that worth it? No, that wasn't worth it. It wasn't worth it at all. Primary production: All primary production needs to be strengthened. And primary production is not to sell out either the Greek, the Asteras, or anything from the Greek property. On the contrary, we should take advantage of them as far as we can to the greatest possible economic benefit for Greek citizens, because it is the property of the Greek people. And if you're incapable of running even a kiosk, it doesn't mean you're going to have to sell everything out because you don't have that possibility. Public education. We see that Greeks can no longer take their children to the nursing stations. They can't. There are no kindergartens, no teachers, no teachers, nothing at all. And only anyone who has the money to go to an expensive private, can be comfortable and handsome or pays care or anything else. The rest of them fight and whatever happens. They need powerful Armed Forces. And powerful Armed Forces doesn't just mean thousands of executives will have a wage, they'll have a job. It's also the thousands of jobs that lived from the Army, from the training centers, from the units anywhere, when and wherever all of them were. But you want an army subordinated to what it means in economic terms as we have said. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. As far as public works are concerned, we really want public works and not only big-workers to benefit. To make public works in order for Greek citizens to find work, to make real competitions, for MOMA to operate, as it used to be, for the benefit of the Greek State. Finally, I would like to make a comment. We heard that the JRC was never compromised, except, of course, for the employees of the "Typectococci" at the time when you dropped their salaries with the first memorandum and then fired them. And, of course, you also agreed with the sale of '902' to a number of offshore shipowners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Panagiottaros, special speaker of the Golden Dawn. Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, a special speaker from the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I would say that these are the proposals contained in the JRC's proposal for a law. It is timely because they give us the opportunity to have a parliamentary dialogue on government policy and its distance to SYRIZA's programming commitments. Let us finally see what happened to the hope promised by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Eighteen months of governing SYRIZA - ANEL and instead of tearing the memorandum, the government has brought a third memorandum. The government has brought in a third memorandum of 86 billion euros. Instead of dignity, he caused ATM retired tails. Instead of a perspective on entrepreneurship, it has brought desperation to businesses. Instead of liquidity on the market, capital controls redirect the economy to recession. Result? The injury to exports reaches 11.7%, in investment minus 2.7%, in financing minus 1.9%, in consumption minus 4.3%. And the drama peaks for twenty-six thousand businesses, which today put 'luketo'. In other words, Mr. Tsipras protected the banks with the capital controls and donated them to today's owners instead of a lentil, extinct in one night, I would say, the public's property of over 25 billion euros. There's always the drama. Instead of "no house in the hands of a banker", he took out the first house in the auction. I come to the primary sector that is the bet of all of us. How does the government support the Greek family, who currently supports the Greek countryside? Are you delaying the payment of subsidies and allowances? By transferring OPEKEAPE and ELGA reserves? By taxing agricultural incomes at a rate of 22% to 45%? By taxing the CAP's agricultural aid? By increasing the tax deposit to 100%? With the abolition of the OGA? By tripling the insurance contributions, which for the first time relate to taxable income and will reach 27% of income together with health contributions? With the increase in ENPIA and indirect taxes? By putting supplementary ENVIRONMENT even on the parcels? It is you, the masters of the government, who would have done away with HISPIA and today we see HISPIAN in the parcels as well. Since the anticipated date, the prime minister has made reasons for his abolition. It's a good wonder. Does the Government consider that it responds to what has been promised by election to farmers in particular by increasing VAT to 24% by increasing the cost of production, by abolishing the special VAT system in the Aegean islands, by imposing a excise duty on wine, by abolishing the refund of the excise duty on oil for farmers, by reducing the budget for farmers by EUR 300 million? All this composes the implementation of the farmers' vote. You fooled them, gentlemen of the government, to vote on you. And today to do your results. Let's go to the market where the real economy is. Do you want the nightmare market figures for 2016? According to data from the Chamber of Economics of Greece, more than fifteen thousand businesses put "luket" in the first five months of 2016. Three thousand fewer enterprises were set up in this first half of 2015 compared to the first half of 2015. The situation deteriorates if it is taken into account that in the last eighteen months we have a fall in household consumption expenditure, a decrease in imports by 12.7%, a decrease in exports by 12.5%, an increase in public debt and reimbursements to the private sector of EUR 7 billion. The extent to which the government understands the problems of the market was shown in the new development law: a law without substantial content, far below the circumstances, without substantial resources for investment. Ladies and gentlemen, we wonder how the government intends to support the Greek family affected by the consequences of the crisis. With pension cuts, 50% cuts in the financing of the programme, 50% cuts in expenditure on services, the creative employment centres for children with disabilities, reductions in the disabled with a disability rate of more than 80%, who suffer so much reduction in their pensions. By way of reduction in the minimum pension. In IKA it was EUR 486 with Law 3863/2010 and it was planned to go to EUR 495 for 2015. But by law of the current government, Mr.4387/2016, did he get down where? At EUR 345, with the abolition of the CSR for a hundred thousand pensioners and projects for a total abolition of another three hundred and fifty thousand beneficiaries. I would remind you here that the ESS was established in 1996 by the PASOK. And it allowed about three hundred thousand retired people to gain decent living conditions. This blow, gentlemen of the government, is it a fair distribution of the burdens that you were proclaiming as opposition? Is it reasonable to say, "I'm cutting off your ESS and I'm going to give you a minimum guaranteed income?" You, Mr Ministers, Members of SYRIZA, promised to restore the 13th pension, not this ruthless attack on pensioners. And then there are two hundred and fifty thousand pensioners, who will also be reduced by supplementary pensions and two hundred and eighty-four thousand shareholders of the Equity Fund, whose dividend will also be significantly reduced. The same attack, of course, on the private sector workers, committed by the current Minister, Mr Katrugalos, to maintaining the 13th and 14th wages. However, we have seen that instead of this promise of EUR 751 as a minimum wage, the low wages are charged with a new increase in their contributions. How can the government justify reducing the amounts for dealing with poverty? In 2014, a social dividend of EUR 450 million was made in six hundred thousand households. In 2015 it was limited to EUR 108 million. How, then, can the government justify the transfer of the universal application of the guaranteed social income by at least two years? A successful PASOK policy implemented pilotically in thirteen municipalities, resulting in a thousand five hundred households coming out of the deadlock. These households were in poverty and they relied on the time they had to. The only thing the government has done today was to inactivate and finally reinitiate the implementation of the programme in just thirty municipalities. But how? Changing his name to'social income of solidarity'. And we're coming to the red loans. We have watched the tradition of the management of the Greek banks in the foreign hands in the past few days. Procedures and criteria for selecting managers of the banking area, which lead with mathematical accuracy to defelling not only the banking system but also important branches of the domestic economy. With a look at the management of red loans. And I am referring to business, where foreign investors will put the finger on honey, liquidating properties and getting easily and quickly profits. Members of the Government, Minister, our proposal: enable borrowers to buy their loans at the price and in the way you give them to foreign funds. Loans to borrowers, not foreign corporations. If anything, example yourself from our Cypriot brothers. It is not possible for Greek citizens to lose their properties overnight. Do not forget that banks have been recapitalised four times. That's enough. That's enough. Therefore, support for borrowers. Support for the Greek family. Citizens' support. Gentlemen of the government, the market is squeezing. Swedes everywhere: at Marinopoulou, at JET OIL, at PYRUS, at ELECTRONIC ATHENS, at LEDRA MARRIOT, and thousands of workers' redundancies. Isn't that all your concern, gentlemen of the government? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the JRC's proposals with this proposal for a law are very useful, but unfortunately they will fall into the void. Let me remind you, however, that until yesterday SYRIZA hated them. What's changed, Minister? Now you've got a password? We, the Democratic Reconciliation, express our deep disappointment at a government that in eighteen months forgot about the Thessaloniki programme for which it was voted on in January 2015 and forgot its programme commitments in September 2015 for which it was re-voked. We here say that the only solution that can get the country out of the deadlock is the national line that leads to growth, the national line that has three objectives. Firstly, progressive reforms in the state, in the market, in the economy, which strengthen the investment climate, which release the creative forces of the place, which create new quality jobs and lead to a development explosion, an explosion against unemployment. Secondly, the redefinition of the primary surplus target to 2% from 2018, while changing - improving the existing and social unjust conditions of the programme. Thirdly, speed up the agreement on the restructuring and write-down of public debt. This must be the aim of all of us to restore the climate of confidence in Greece and to restore this climate to foreign markets in order to bring foreign investors to our country, so that there can be an influx of capital in our country. There must be strong and substantial support from the primary sector. Gentlemen of the government, the loan was terminated. The loan to which the Greek citizens lived has come to an end. We need a new production web that will get the country out of the deadlock, which will produce wealth and be redistributed fairly to the citizens. Well, development. That's the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u13	Thank you Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, special speaker of the Democratic Association. There is the floor for Mr Jason Fotella from the river for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like the citizens to understand what we are going to discuss today and why we have serious objections to the Potami process both in the process under way, which we denounce, but even more in the substance of the matter itself. The government agrees to bring to the House a proposal for a law in another party. It is invoked by Article 73 of the Constitution and at the same time a practice carried out since 2001. I read, first of all, what Article 73(3) of the Constitution says precisely, in order to answer: 'No proposal for a law or an amendment or addition shall be introduced for discussion if it involves a public, OTA or other legal persons governed by public law, expenditure or a reduction of revenue or property for the purpose of giving a wage or a pension or a general benefit to a person'. In this proposal we are called upon to discuss all this. In other words, there is a reduction in public property, because beyond the banks, these loans involve even the Deposit and Loan Fund, which, as you know, is a legal person governed by public law, is the public. So, if they are implemented, they will mean a reduction in public property and therefore, in accordance with Rule 73, a proposal for a law cannot be introduced, nor can it be discussed in plenary if it is done for the benefit of some people. Article 75(3) also expressly provides that a bill involving expenditure or a reduction in revenue is not to be introduced for discussion if it is not accompanied by a special report on how such expenditure will be covered, signed by the Minister responsible and the Minister for Finance. Finally, Article 85(6) of the Rules of Procedure provides that any proposal for a law is to be sent to the relevant ministers, who have an obligation to answer whether or not they are subject to the restrictions laid down in Article 73(3) of the Constitution, and to the General Accounting Office of the State for drawing up the report laid down in Article 75(1) of the Constitution. Now to understand, the chairman of the committee spoke to us about normal tactics, about some kind of custom I would say. In fact, he told us that it was precisely for that reason that he would not be voted on. I, for my part, am a new Member and Potami is a new party, but this kind of customary law that violates the Constitution does not understand it. And to be honest, I'm afraid of them, and I'm afraid only of the idea of what other articles in the Constitution may be invaded tomorrow by invoking another customary law. The President of the committee told us that this is what happens when these proposals help to resolve the problems. They take their place on serious issues and try to regulate, as the JRC's present proposal does. The conclusion, therefore, is that when the legislative proposals are judged by the relevant Minister as worthwhile and capable of helping to resolve the issues that concern him, the Minister is making the wrong eyes and breaking the institutions. Only the Minister himself in his position said that this proposal belongs to another reality and lacks seriousness. So the reasonable question is why he agreed to violate the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, even with the justification of customary law, for a proposal that lacks seriousness and which belongs to the sphere of imagination and which, of course, cannot help to solve the problems? Incidentally another question has been raised: Why has SYRIZA now put this proposal in the sphere of imagination in 2013 voted on it? Then was this proposal effective? Could we implement all the measures referred to in the proposal in 2013? Do not forget that the proposal is exactly the same. Why then 'yes' and now 'no'? It's simple. Because then you were opposition. Now you're government. That's why, no one else. Before we see the answer to the question now, why does the government bring the JRC's proposal as useful in the public debate, as the chairman of the committee said, despite the fact that the SYRIZA and ANEL rapporteur called it utopian, let us see how serious this proposal of the JRC is. The proposal for a law which we are debating today is entitled 'Measures for the relief of the people's family'. And who is the people's family today according to this proposal, so we can laugh a little? If it has two children, it is 50,000 euros a year, i.e. 4,166 euros a month. This is in line with this proposal by the people's family in Greece. Comments are superfluous. Furthermore, the proposal for a law provides for the deletion of all interest of all kinds, all loans, housing, consumer, credit cards. And from what's left, it's gonna be 50% erased. All this must happen to the person who makes 400 euros, 500 euros a month or nothing because he is unemployed, in the same way as to the person who makes EUR 4.166 a month. Comments are superfluous again. It says much more, but there is no need to go further with the proposal. So the question remains: why is the Minister upsetting the entire House? Why is it wasting the time of three hundred Members of Parliament on a proposal, which belongs to the sphere of imagination and which is nothing to do with resolving the issue? And, of course, it is not the time of the Members of Parliament who are interested, as long as the institution, all institutions, now, from this government. After all, if the Minister wanted to provoke a debate on the problems of the people's family, he could do so on his own. It did not need the unexplained proposal of the Communist Party. The truth is, this move serves two purposes. The first is for the Government to say "thank you" to the JRC, because it will vote for the abolition of bonuses in the electoral law and the other is to show that a left-wing government brings proposals to the House for debate, which have to do with the impoverishment of EUR 4.166 a month. That's what we're talking about. Because in terms of normal poverty, unemployment or EUR 400 and EUR 500 we see how much the government cares. It is a government that has led to the massive impoverishment of the Greek citizens, which has loaded on the back of the Greek people 86 billion euros with the proud negotiation of Mr Varoufakis, which has led to a new recession in the Greek economy for 2015 and 2016, which started the first-resident auctions, which delivers the loans of the citizens to speculative funds, which the EASA has cut down and tells us that this would be the first time that it would be done with the austerity and taxation of citizens and businesses, which had called for the dismantling of the HPAI and now unresolvedly tells us that it may have to be paid in four instalments. That's what the government brought for the real people's family. So this is all a lisverish, a theatrical performance with Parliament. "You vote for the bonus and we will deliver you the Plenary for a whole day to do your part." Only this whole theatrical projection takes place on the back of the Greek people. You do not hesitate, in order to carry out your micro-political purposes, to play with the anguish and suffering of millions of our fellow people, who are on the verge of economic impoverishment, are unable to repay their loans and are afraid of their homes. Forged algae for silk ribbons, no matter what their real needs. You build on the despair of the world your political future. Shame on you. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, your policy is the epitome of populism, and the truth is that you're into it. At the very top of the red loan negotiations, with some of them being expected to be attributed to the funds, which you have only complained about a few months ago, you are bringing for discussion provisions relating to another reality, to another world. How much more strife? I shall conclude by saying this. All parties to counterpopulation should abstain from today's caragiozili and not be involved by legalising a process both illegal and ridiculous on the substance. The opposition parties are part of this imperfection of parliamentary procedures. Potami, if he stayed in the Chamber, is just to denounce this pragmy, since none of the other parties saw it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u15	A bad theatre as an actor you are, you played here today. You're a very bad actor, Light. You're really worried about capital. You're so worried. You're a pharmacody.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Catalan! Thank you, Mr. Firela. Don't abuse the word theatre.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u17	He's a jerk, that's what I'm saying. He knows how to play the slut.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u18	We abuse the notion of theatre when we use it in a different sense from the one it actually has. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction: 'Representation of political parties, extension of the right to elect and other provisions on the election of MPs'. Mr. Lazarides, a special speaker from the Independent Greeks, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I make the comments on the proposal by the Communist Party, I would like to begin my position by making some comments on some of the points that my fellow Member from the Democratic Independence said earlier in his place. Talk about HICP, talk about insurance. In any case, like the previous Member who spoke from New Democracy, he gives this government responsibility for all the problems that society, the world and the market are experiencing. I shall begin with my colleague from the Democratic Alliance. He talked about HISBIA. So, we have such a shallow memory? Who imposed him? PASOK, when it ruled. Even a month before he was imposed, he was brought as an SEE, a Single End of Infrastructured Surfaces. Before they imposed him, Vaggelis Venizelos had been placed at the time and he said that it is unconstitutional to charge taxes by means of public service accounts. After one month, on a ministerial council, held at the OLTH, at the Thessaloniki Port Authority, ahead of the opening of the exhibition, he announced the enforcement of the EMCDDA. So, rather, you should look at the house and then make some criticisms. He talked about the insurance later. The insurance company does have problems. But is there any insurance expert who claims that an insurance system with 27% of the population as a whole can stand and more than 50% of the unemployment in young people? Nobody. The effect of these unemployment rates on what policy is it? Government policy 2010-2014. I would therefore ask colleagues to be more careful in their position, because for all these problems which we are discussing today and for the humanitarian crisis it is their own policy. They altered the social composition of the country's population. And indeed, they move the finger many times and say "the middle class" and "the middle class". Yes, the middle class, indeed, needs attention, but the middle class, who is the one who hit her and destroyed her? The policy of these two parties, the New Democracy and the PASOK. These two hundred and fifty thousand businesses that have closed down, these stores we see closed down on the streets, this is the middle class. These small and medium-sized enterprises, medium-sized enterprises, this is the middle-class. And don't come hypocritically now to make middle-class lawyers. You killed her in the middle class. And you know, the middle class, traditionally, was the one that was moving our home economy. And with simple things. A man on the market is aware of it. The people on the market cannot understand it. And sadly your interlocutors are the people of the markets, our interlocutors are the people of the market, they are the everyday people, those who strive, with struggle, with effort, to make their bread. These stores are closed. And you know, it's just the things that the economy of our country was moving with. Those who had the stores came in at some point when they opened a shop for their children, they were buying a house to take care of their children. And make an account with these simple moves how our country's economy moves. Especially our own economy, which we have no factories or Mercedes to make either Audi or Volkswagen, I don't know now, not to mention brands, we don't have a heavy industry. And we have no reason why and historically if you see it with the Phoenicians, traditionally, we have been merchants since antiquity, so there is no reason to hit trade in Greece or the middle class. Traditionally, the middle class was widened. Anyway. We're not going to do an analysis now. You took the debt from 120% and took it to 185%. The Greeks' statements you put them down in half. Therefore, you should be more careful. You closed banks. Now we are also discussing the banks here with the draft law tabled by the Communist Party. And which banks did you book? The banks, which were flags to the Greek. You closed the Commercial, which was synonymous with entrepreneurship, synonym of business, of Greek businessman, of Greek trader. You booked the Merchant. You booked the Post Bank. What was the Post Bank? The Post Bank was the nest of the people who were saving. Let us remember the older ones, from children who wrote and the reports at the time, who put us in and write about saving, etc. And they gave us a present and a pigeon. Well, you booked this bank. You did this. As you have closed down the rural bank, growth levers for farmers. Why did you turn it off? For five years you have been tearing down the economy and now this government has been called upon to heal the deep wounds which you have opened in society, in the world, in the economy. This government supports our fellow citizens and has taken measures specifically to support our fellow citizens. In particular, it has arranged for free reconnection of cut electrical supplies of mainland electrical supplies and free supply of 300 kilowatts per month, 1,200 kilowatts per quarter. Rental allowance for new leases or renewals of old EUR 70 per month for the individual and EUR 30 per month for each additional person of the family up to the amount of EUR 220 per month. Subsidy shall be provided in the form of an electronic card for the supply of food from stores of a total value of EUR 70 per month for the individual and EUR 30 per month for each additional person of the family up to the amount of EUR 220 per month. In addition, the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Solidarity, Mrs Theanoo Fotou, recently announced the establishment of a housing policy body for vulnerable groups. Also, the government has taken care of school meals. You remember they fainted at school and didn't want to admit it. We talked about it on television and the ministers and Members of the two parties went out and did not want to admit that the children faint in school from hunger. This government also put school meals: caterpillars in schools, hot school meals. We are also talking about food and basic goods structure with social grocery stores and social pharmacies and homeless structures. I won't expand here any longer. I come to the proposal from the Communist Party. It says that "with regard to the proposal for a law in mind, it is foreseen that families with an annual income of up to EUR 40,000, increasing by EUR 5,000 for each child, etc." and characterising these families as "milk families". A four-member family with 50,000 euros does not think it can be described as a people's family, namely EUR 4,500 a month, cannot be described as a people's family. After all, our good colleague from the Communist Party said that the majority of our compatriots are saying less than 12 000 euros. So with the 50,000 what does that mean? It means that the population as a whole is characterized by'multi-family'. It's not like that. In any case, this is how we put the whole world in and, as a result, there is a serious problem with banks. Anyway, I respect that. It is your philosophy, it is in the ideology of the Communist Party, standing across from the banks, and you do not care whether there is a problem of either recapitalisation or even the closure of some banks because of these proposals. Because it is not our philosophy to fight the banks, we cannot support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u20	Thank you Mr. Lazarides, special speaker from the Independent Greeks. I would like to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Regulating matters of responsibility of the Ministry of National Defence". The last of the special speakers and rapporteurs is Mr Marios Georgiadis, from the Centron Association, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you have a good day. In politics we have come to bring solutions. This bill, which the JRC brings, does not move towards offering solutions, but aims to impress and maintain forces. We cannot explain it otherwise because it does not move within reality. The ideal of the Communist Party is to force a society without classes. Until then, according to the JRC, we must socialise the means of production and impose the power of the working class. The socialisation of the means of production will, of course, not take place in a democratic way, but with central, state management, what you say 'General Secretariat' or 'Commission' or something like that. We are therefore clearly talking about a complete model of social and economic administration, in which the representatives of the working class will have one. This ideology has for years been the refuge of the poor and intimidated. Why? The reason is simple. This integrated approach is covered by a romantic cloak to strengthen the weaker social strata. Of course, whenever this ideology has been applied, the weaker have never gone any further. There has barely been total poverty - and I refer to the end of the Communist period of seventy years - and the dissolution of the social fabric. Let's go more specifically now. First of all, I will judge the bill through your eyes. Let me see, how you really defend the impossible, the worker, the unprivileged. The main body of the bill is now based on the following considerations: A three-member family with an income of up to EUR 3750 per month, an increase of EUR 5000 per year for each child, must enjoy the following benefits: Firstly, it should remove 50% of the debt, since the loans of the family do not exceed EUR 200 000, secondly, that interest should be deleted and, thirdly, that repayments should be frozen until the crisis is overrun. From the words you use unfoundedly, we understand that more literary is text rather than technocratic. Let me, for example, bring two main terms of your text, the word 'crisis' and the word 'laikos'. When you say that someone will start to repay their loan, when the crisis is over, you have to tell us what you mean by the terms of the crisis. When will we know that the crisis is over, based on your words? When we achieve growth, when we acquire high primary surpluses or when we leave the European Union? Is that not your characteristic ideological phrase, 'free from the wolf alliance'? Everything else is secondary. You want to be isolated from Europe's so-called 'lyrics'. So we have a reasonable question: What do you care about, growth, debt or surplus? Don't you want a one-sided debt write-off? So you have problems solved and a question for us is why you are dealing with capitalist procedures. But let us also see the term in the title of the bill,'male family'. What's folklore? The bill suffices to be financially determined. So, if someone's not a folkman, what is it? He's an aristocrat, he's a very small ruler? And where does the folk line stop, according to you? Does it stop at 45,000 euros a year for a three-member family, as written in the bill? So, at 46,000 euros a year, a family is rich and aristocratic, and in 44,000 is poor and popular? When someone takes 3,700 euros a month, is he poor and popular, while if he takes 3,800 a month, is he a little short and drinks the blood of the folk class? It is really acidifying that thinking and it does not seem to stand up to serious criticism. So let me take seriously the law that you say you want to bring in and consider it with one specific example. We have a pensioner with a woman and a child who received EUR 150,000-200,000, not this year, of course, last year. This year, in other words, it is not the first year of its retirement, and this year it receives 3 000 euros a month from its two insurance funds and has a rent of EUR 750 and so it reaches 3 750 euros a month, that is, the limit you have set. Suppose he got 200,000 euros of a housing loan. So you suggest that those privileges apply to him. On the other hand, we have a private employee. He has a wife and a child too. When his business went well and took close to 2,000 euros a month, his bank approved a housing loan of 201,000 euros. Today he is unemployed, receives a welfare allowance to secure his food and family, and so to him, you do not propose to delete 50% of the loan. With a characteristic example, ladies and gentlemen, I have shown you this, that you consider a member of the people's family to be an income from a multi-retired TECF, not one, who is indeed poor and cannot guarantee food for his family. With this specific example I want to show how utopian your proposal is. I don't even need to criticize you, because you undo yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u22	Your right reason to see him?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u23	You're not reading well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u24	If you think I am not reading well, I will tell you that people are listening to us and will judge if I read well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u25	You're "rabbit," okay!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u26	I'll come to the next one. You've caught me now! Because who's a lad has proved it. At times you have made insulting comments to our President and our party. You have dared to speak straight - and you are now confirming it - it was your next proposal, which I have had time to do - to speak of 'crowds' and rocks! Sadly, however, today, with the signature of all these Members, you are taking the place of several rich and newly rich people. You join the people's family and the trade union workers, as well as the newly rich privileged, who have high incomes. You don't even want to hurt the client state over the last few decades, and not only that, but you want it on your side too. And it is not just that, but you are baptizing these privileged and "the family". In other words, the people's family is, for you, and the family who works and gets a basic salary of EUR 500 in the bills, but also the trade unionist, who, with ten times the pay, can also make transfers to Swiss and offshore. And to show your clientele logic and effort to maintain your electoral base, you put Article 7. There - listen - listen! - you are referring to a reduction in only farmers and fishermen's debts. Other professions aren't worth protecting? We as political formation have never separated citizens according to their economic and social position. There are no privileged professions in Greece today. Each profession contributes to the state budget. Each professional contributes with indirect and direct taxes on the social welfare of all citizens. It would be opportune for us to express a preference for a specific professional class. The parties are not lobbyists or trade unionists. They are not representatives of the guilds and of economic and financial interests. Parliament represents all citizens, regardless of their profession, of origin, sex or religion. The citizen, who trusts us, first seeks the welfare of the state and within it, of course, and his. He knows well that only through total prosperity can he prosper. He can't win the rest of the people around starving. Nor can he live happily and in a decaying society. The Centro Association, expressing the democratic centre, is as socially sensitive as you. We have entered Parliament with slogans to cut down the privileges of those who have a great deal of income. Such are the multi-retireees, the wealthy who receive pensions, the slow-wages in state mechanisms, the supposed workers in public bodies - ghosts that have never been recorded and so on. We all support this in the interests of the economically weak and, of course, society. These proposals in theory would like you to do so too. The draft law proposed by you, I will repeat, is a transient Utopia receipt. The only political formation, which has something to give socially sensitive and weak classes, is the Association of Centres. Money trees do not exist, as there is no money without production and without unnecessary expenditure cuts. The citizen now has to wake up, not to be seen as hopeful traffickers. Above all, this does not agree to be levelled into a shapeless mass. There are no folk and non-popular families, ladies and gentlemen. There's no folkmeter. There are families, black. Citizens with needs for themselves and their families. Citizens, who think and act, based on their own will. These citizens we want with us. This is how Greece will be rebuilt. With production, with respect to individual freedoms, with democratic processes and the state with a social face. Based on the above, we cannot support this bill, which you enter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u27	Thank you for the special speaker of the Centroon Association, Mr Mario Georgiadis. The Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, Mr. George Stathakis, has the floor for fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, as the representative of the New Democracy has shown, there is a tendency to withdraw her initial strategy that SYRIZA - ANEL's coming to power has caused a terrible disaster in the Greek economy and that what is happening around us is a product of the last eighteen months, because today it has kept milder tons and has told us to compare two methodological observations which I shall reproduce precisely. First, to distinguish the first memorandum from the second. The first has had a 2/3 increase in taxes and a 1/3 reduction in expenditure. The second was precisely the return - the one that is friendly to the New Democracy - more cost-cutting and less tax reduction. The second methodological remark was that we must compare each government with what it has received and what it has delivered. I am therefore following these remarks, in order to say once again that the government has received an economy with a marginal surplus, marginal development - I stress it for the most part - and has closed a period during which the economy has suffered a sharp decline. That is undeniable. 25% of GDP declined over the past six years. Secondly, the evacuation of unemployment, the red loans to banks of 46%, all the data, i.e., had already precedented. This was received by the Government and this is not compared with any developments from there on which to justify further deterioration, since the data are at the expense of the New Democracy. So this has also received under these conditions and because the data are, 0% recession, a fall in unemployment of 1.5% and others that we have analysed for a long time, the question arises what would have happened if that government did not exist and the previous one continued. This is the last methodological criticism, which has been made today, which is why I call it more moderate than previous catastrophic. What really would have happened if the New Democracy government continued? How would the surplus of 4.5 points of GDP result in 2015? I repeat: How would the surplus of 4.5 GDP result from less than 1%, which we received early in 2015, and how would it be maintained in 2016 and 2017? This is a legend. How would that be? So let me follow the line of the New Democracy, 2/3 cuts in expenditure and 1/3 increase in tax revenue. The three units of GDP, which were called on to correct in 2015, if my mathematics are good, are about 5.5 billion meters only for 2015. Would you cut 4 billion off public spending? And how would you do it in 2015? I therefore follow with awe and repeat that the embarrassment of the New Democracy after the first assessment is unprecedented, which is why it does two things. First, he's paradoxing. So I described her obsession, looking for the reasons - and I don't know what - about how we got to some decisions in 2015 before the referendum. The so-called 'examination committee'. I repeat that, on the one hand, it is paradoxical because it does not have a policy and, on the other, it uses advertising spots such as 'two, two,' the famous advertising spot, which I welcome as a communication - advertising spot, but, obviously, is not a serious political or serious criticism of the present government. I repeat and insist once again, because the rapporteur once again mentioned it and the Democratic Compact in committee also mentioned it, that I expect New Democracy to come and tell us how SYRIZA costs it ECU 86 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u29	Why don't you ask Mr. Stournara?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u30	Don't invoke third parties. Once I want you to analyze this amazing number you've taken, which I've been analyzing to you for the last time: 86 billion was the July agreement, it is the country's new loan and it replaces 50 billion of old loans with new loans, much more favourable, because instead of being paid back in six years, they are repaid to thirty - 50 billion - and it includes the 25 billion of banks, which we did not need. We only needed 5.5 billion, and we got to 75. Finally, 11 billion is public debts to the private sector, to which you agree. I repeat for once: we tell you, there is no such cost. You can explain to us sometime where SYRIZA costs are assumed to be SYRIZA 86 billion. The Democratic Reconciliation also repeats this. I repeat: at some point you can tell us how you made that numerical. I come to today's bill and the JRC's proposal. I would remind you that the present government on red loans has closed down the entire cycle of regulations, decisions and choices it has to make. The government's position has been very clear from the time we were in the Opposition. The problem of successive per two recapitalisations of banks without addressing the problem of red loans merely extended the financial crisis cycle. The current government said it would go on both sides, both the recapitalisation of banks and the regulation of red loans. Since last August we have voted for all the arrangements for the management of red loans. I would remind you that we have done two things in this regard: firstly, we have formulated the stricter framework that can be found and there is at European level in terms of various social protection rules, but also at the same time in terms of how this is to be managed and, secondly, we have fully maintained the protection of first residence, just as we were committed to. Let me remind you of some of the arrangements we have made. I'll start with the amendment of the Katseli Law. These amendments, which were made in August 2015, introduced additional measures that were favourable to the highly indebted households. Firstly, we extended the scope of the Katseli Law and to debts of overdue households to the State, tax administration and social security institutions. Therefore, in Katseli Law, a highly indebted household can incorporate other categories of debt, which it has to the public and insurers. Secondly, we have introduced the institution of rapidly clearing debts of micro-processors up to EUR 20,000 without real estate and with some other restrictions. After eighteen months their debts shall be written off and the possibility of a new start of the overdue natural person shall be provided. Thirdly, we have introduced the criterion of reasonable living costs of the debtor and his family, which is the backbone of the code of conduct of the banks. These reasonable living costs, based on estimates by the ERC and current data, are estimated to be around EUR 1,100 for a four-member family. Therefore, the credit needs cover, which has to be regulated in relation to the banks, will relate to income above it. So minimum living costs are assured. Fourthly, we are speeding up the procedures for judging the old Katselis law by administering new organic positions with judges and judges so that the number of cases can be dealt with administratively. Fifthly, we provide the possibility of re-introducing an application and re-introduction to the 2010 Act with an extension granted, in order to protect all debtors who had bureaucratic press problems. Last November, 2015, we definitively formulated the new framework, the new Katseli law. Let me remind you what the two main changes we have brought about are: first, the debtor to any requirement that he may request the exclusion of his principal residence from his property, since his income available does not exceed reasonable living costs, increased by 70%, the objective value is less than EUR 180,000, plus children, etc. and the borrower was cooperative within the meaning of the Code of Conduct. This is therefore about 65% of the borrowers. Therefore, the first residence for all these classes of borrowers is protected by this law. Now, increased protection also exists for debtors whose available family income does not exceed or is equal to reasonable living costs and the objective value is less than EUR 120,000. In this case, the public may contribute to the repayment of monthly payments at the request of the debtor. This is about 25% of the most vulnerable borrowers, where the state is coming home to pay its housing loan, so that the first home is obviously not lost. In addition, let me remind you that we have set up the Private Debt Management Secretariat, which will manage all thirty lending centres throughout the country. At the same time, we are preparing to form an out-of-court compromise system for highly indebted small, medium-sized and large enterprises and free traders. It's a complex system. We extended the law Trees for as long as it takes, but it will be an incision to how this system can be arranged. At the same time, opening up the market where non-banking institutions can be involved, we did three things, I would remind you: Firstly, the management companies of these loans are obliged to be based in Greece, licensed by the Bank of Greece with an opinion from the government and operating under an operating regime defined by the Bank of Greece and has a number of strict rules. Also, with regard to the sale of loans, which is allowed in countries for companies established in the European Union, in America or in other countries - all tax havens are excluded, all non-cooperative countries - are excluded - we also anticipate that, in the event of a loan being sold, these companies should be obliged to manage the loans through the management companies established in Greece. So we have built a framework, which is the strictest and safest, and which forms some safe management conditions. At the same time, any possible transfer of a loan shall carry exactly the same terms. It is a strict condition that the relationship against the borrower cannot be aggravated. At the same time, the entire institutional framework applies to any loan that exists in the bank. So we have exactly the same rules, precisely the same protection, precisely the same function, as if the loan remained in the spirit of the banks. I stress these, precisely because this is the institutional framework of policy, as it has been designed. The exception is until early 2018 strictly, unnegotiable for the first residence, not only for housing loans - I mean, forbidden to sell explicitly - but also for all the loans linked to the first residence. As far as this proposal is concerned, we have referred to three points of criticism on our part in committee. The first issue concerns the definition of the people's family. We thought that as it was printed, it includes the sum of the middle layers of Greek society. We believe that the definition of the people's family is closer to the institutional framework, which we have voted - and I have described it earlier - for the different levels of protection, which we really provide to the people's families in order to protect their first homes, to strengthen and so on. In addition, of course, there is social policy, which will be analysed by Mrs Fotou. The second point of criticism was, of course, the question of banks. Obviously, there is a point here. We are - and we remain - very critical of the way in which the banks worked during the period of economic bubble when they borrowed in the way they borrowed, and of the way in which they managed overcompensation from households in previous years. Obviously, the banks could do much more for both households and businesses, and there could be a different strategy - let us say so - to manage the problems arising from the crisis. However, we all recognise that there is a major issue, which concerns the relationship between banks, states and borrowers. An economy, which has shrinked, where real estate values have fallen, and so on, creates a huge cost for the economy, which banks, state and borrowers have to share in various ways. And care for a state is the cost of sharing it in a fair and, above all, effective way. Therefore, our strategy does, protects the cost from transferring to borrowers. After all, the cost has been transferred, after two recapitalisations have been made, to the shareholders of the banks. The shareholders have been successively nullified three times. At the same time, a large part of the state, which is called upon to operate in balance sheet and stability of the banking system, involved in successive recapitalisations and at the same time, tried to support borrowers, a large part at least and with certainty the vulnerable groups. Our strategy is therefore a given one. We must proceed with strong social protection rules, so we must protect borrowers from a regulation that is negative to them. At the same time, there must be a reasonable policy towards the recapitalisation of banks and the state must at the same time act in terms of the stability of the economy and the financial sector. Obviously, the banks today cannot suffer a loss of the seventy, eighty billion, under the conditions laid down in the proposal. That would have huge side effects. It would require a new recapitalisation and obviously a large state aid to this recapitalisation. It is therefore inappropriate at this point. However, it retains the elements of this burden sharing, which we believe may have justice rules, and that is the policy implemented by the government. One final point, and that is what I would like to close. Politics, as is the case in its implementation, will obviously also have room for new corrective action. The government's policy is clear. The framework has been established, there is a recapitalisation of the banks, which has been positively reflected because the state has not had to put up much money, it has put too little, the private sector has put most of the money. The government must implement its policy in a firm manner and from there on, if and since the economy, which we all aspire to return to positive growth, the issues of the stabilisation of the financial system and, while maintaining the high degree of social protection, are a plausible, realistic strategy with which the government can go. I'll close by making one last request to the New Democracy. We hope that you will raise your criticism of tomorrow a little bit. Don't turn to the past again. You will fail for the third, fourth consecutive time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Minister Statakis, for his location. Mrs Kerameos, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, following Mrs Vaki, Mr Karathanasopoulos and Mr Dannelis, has the floor, and we will then open the list of speakers. You have the floor, Mrs. Kerameus.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I imagine that today is another of these awkward days for the Members of the ruling majority. We are discussing a proposal for a JRC law entitled 'Measures to relieve the people', which provides for the famous seismicism, the deletion of debts and interest of the so-called popular households. And I say it must be an awkward day for SYRIZA Members because the content of the proposal for a law, which we are discussing today, is identical to what SYRIZA had from the outset. It is a proposal for a law, after all, which had been discussed, Minister, again in 2013 and which then SYRIZA had supported and voted with passion. There are too many examples of the SYRIZA Members who, in election terms, promised exactly what they do not vote on today, just what they do not legislate today. I will only take two examples, first of all Mr. Tsipras' speech in Thessaloniki in 2014. What did Mr. Tsipras say? It's his words. He said he would institutionalise the new seismicism to regulate red loans, which would include some of the debts to those borrowers that are below the poverty line. That is exactly what the JRC says today. I cannot resist reading another proposal from Mr Solana, then the SYRIZA rapporteur, other than the one our rapporteur has read. He said in 2013: "We are voting on the proposal for a law of the JRC and we will re-establish our proposal, firstly, to be consistent with what we have said in the election because - and I would ask you to take your attention here - at long last in this country, some should become accustomed to the fact that there are political forces on the Left that say in the election, they mean it and do it post-election, and above all to support the battle that the Greek people are giving for their survival". That was what your rapporteur said in 2013 in relation to the very same proposal for a law. So why, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, do you not now support this proposal? Why do you not legislate yourself on the respect you promised and on the basis of which you were elected? The answer is of course obvious. For now, away from your election commitments, from your election promises, even from your insurmountable election statements, you are forced to confess the reality, a reality which you have made considerably worse by the choices you have made for eighteen months as a government, so that the lives of Greek citizens are getting worse every day. It is a reality that Greek families as a whole experience with fierce experience - almost all of them - and not only those called in here today's popular families. So let's see what this reality has been for eighteen months, and why we think hypocrisy and impatient in this Chamber is being heard by the relevant SYRIZA rapporteur and the relevant ministers that defending the decent living and relief of people's households and families with low incomes is a cornerstone for maintaining social cohesion, the sustainable and democratic development of the country, but also the way out of the crisis, and they are - listen, listen! - a substantial, programme commitment of the SYRIZA and a basic aim for government policy. We have also heard that for the government the social state is a lever for growth along with large business plans. Ladies and gentlemen, what social state are you talking about? The main prerequisite for a sustainable social state is a sustainable economy and in 2014, after the hard sacrifices of the entire Greek society, the Greek economy had been cowardly turning orbit and years later the sign in development was positive. Minister, since you referred to how many measures you would need, I would remind you - you mentioned 5.5 billion measures - that the economy had already entered a development path, I would remind you that even the requirements of lenders at that time - I should not refer to the mail Hardouvelis, which was 980 million - was 1.5 billion. How many billions have you taken, Minister? You have taken 9 billion measures, certainly institutionalised and potentially up to 12.5 billion, if the cut is implemented, which we are all absent. So we have reached a real surplus, and I say real, because you too are talking about surpluses, but you have arrears to the private sector, which have increased by 84%, Minister. However, we have had a real surplus, not on paper, and from that we have given 450 million to seven hundred thousand households, and in addition we have already handed you the funds with another EUR 800 million surplus, which was available to you. I stop here because the citizens who are watching us and who judge us for our actions know very well what the New Democracy Government has done in the war of the crisis. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, all problems may not have solved them, but it managed at the end of 2014 to lead the economy and society to even limited development. But how does reality shape today, because you want to talk about today, Minister, eighteen months after the government of SYRIZA took over? So let us see, Minister, what social state you have built. Let's see which of your programming commitments have been made and finally, let's see what achievements you really can unrealisticly pride yourself in. I'll talk to you with clues. A few weeks ago another scanning wave of reductions hit pensions indiscriminately after last year's wave of 2% reduction on main and 6% reduction on ancillarys. The abolition of the ESS is a fact. Three hundred forty thousand low pensioners lose the EKRF by the end of 2017. The cuts are extended to dividends of 35% of the share funds, but also to supplementary pensions which will be followed in two months from now by reductions of 20% to 30%. I am continuing: We have a reduction in the main pensions for all new pensioners from 10% to 30%, an increase in labour contributions in favour of the single subsidiary insurance fund retrospectively from 1 June 2016, which, of course, also leads to a reduction in the net earnings of workers. From 1 August or no later than 1 September 2.3 million private and public employees will be invited to contribute 0.5% of their earnings to the EIF, while two hundred and sixty thousand pensioners will be invited to pay up to 40% of their supplementary pensions. I continue, although this torture seems to have no end: the two hundred and ninety thousand pensioners in the quarter of April - June 2016 decreased against, ladies and gentlemen, an average of 44%, over twenty-five thousand public pensioners have completely lost the widow's divide as of June 1, 2016 and eleven thousand pensioners will be subjected to reductions of up to 37%. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the print of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL on the construction of the social state. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government punishes labour and chooses socially unequal measures, leading to a generalised situation of social injustice. He told you, Minister, to make a case of work on what you have received and what you have handed over. You said it yourself that you received growth and at the moment, based on the latest information provided by the Governor of the Bank of Greece, we have a recession in 2016 of 0.3%. In your own words, you have received growth, and for now we are in the recession. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to the bad situation in which the banking system has arrived in the last eighteen months again with elements which, unfortunately, are not questioned. This is because the proposal for a law of the JRC, which, in April 2013, SYRIZA strongly supported, when SYRIZA made the election flag of seismicism, is really timely. It is timely, because it is coming today that, as they all show, seizures and auctions from both Greek public and Greek banks are accelerating since September. The previous recapitalisations of the banks were initially dismantled and bank shares dismantled. The public lost 25 billion euros and another 15 billion euros for Greek small shareholders. Total? About 40 billion euros. In addition, serious investments such as the National Bank in Turkey were lost: Finance Bank. Moreover, 21 billion euros were lost from the fact that the economy returned to the recession. I would remind you that the European Commission forecasts GDP for 2016 that it will reach EUR 175 billion, while in autumn 2014 it predicted that it would be EUR 196 billion. Loss of 21 billion euros in the period 2015-2016 or otherwise, 5000 euros for each household. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] The Athens Exchange until February 2016 lost 45% of its value. I could, ladies and gentlemen, continue by reducing exports by 7.6%, with business padlocks. I would remind you that on the basis of your own data, the official figures provided for the publication, in the first half of 2016 increased the business enclosures by 42%, while the foundations of the new businesses fell by 17% compared with the corresponding semester of 2015. And because, Minister, I see you make formats, these are the official elements of the General Commercial Register, the General Commercial Register, the GEMI. What to say about the management of service loans. We move on to the management and sale of all loans, red and green, to domestic and foreign funds, which will naturally accelerate auctioning. So, Minister, no change of direction from the New Democracy. It is all the fault, which I mentioned for too many others. This is the grim reality. This is the reality of the eighteenth month of SYRIZA - ANEL governance. Let the gentlemen and ladies of the conflict consider their responsibilities and finally speak frankly to Greek citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, I could talk much more about all the parts of reality, which you have raised with your eighteen-month government. Because they're countless. I believe, however, that it is equally important to refer to something that defines my personal course and which I referred to in March 2015 in my first speech at the time as a Member of Parliament during the plenary debate on the plan to combat the humanitarian crisis. When the New Democracy, as a responsible political force, voted in favour of the humanitarian crisis legislation, despite the fact that what was then given to the citizens was a drop in the ocean. Of course, drops in relation to what they promised. I would remind you: EUR 108 million in relation to two billion promised. Strategic and non-strategic targeting, as well as later in the bill on speeding up government work. What was given was unconscious. Fire-extinguishers, inflammatory solutions. Mr President-in-Office, this is not how the problems of society are solved. Like today, they would not solve all the problems of the debtors, even in the imaginary scenario where all their debts would be recorded. Every arrangement, however small it may be, must be made within a specific framework, following research, study and analysis of needs. Even deeper and after a comparative study of what is happening in other European countries. I want to be clear. Of course, it is important, ladies and gentlemen, that we offer support and relief to socially vulnerable groups. These solutions, however, are on a daily basis. They don't solve the problem. The real challenge and the real help that we can offer as a political system is to help these socially vulnerable groups reintegrate into society, reintegrate themselves into the social and labour fabric. Then the problem is solved. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude by saying this: in March 2015 I referred to a saying that for me is a attitude of life: when you give someone a fish, you give him food for one day. But when you teach him to fish, you give him food for a lifetime. I remember as yesterday Mrs Fotio who sat on those benches telling me at the time I was speaking: 'We are preparing measures like this, we are preparing measures for the reintegration of people into the social and labour fabric as part of an integrated and coordinated action'. Unfortunately, one and a half years later we in Parliament have not seen any such substantial intervention, an intervention not a fire brigade, but an intervention that really incorporates these many socially vulnerable groups into the country's social and labour fabric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Keramea.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u34	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute to make one speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u35	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u36	Mrs. Kyrame probably restored the climate of New Democracy, a war disaster with irresponsible statistics.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u37	It's yours, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u38	I repeat, irresponsible statistics. He talked about destructiveness for a hundred times, and I'm waiting for an answer. The unemployment rate is 0%, minus 1.5%. You have charged us - I think - up to Finance Bank in Turkey. Is it because of her, too, the SYRIZA - ANEL government? With regard to the last sixteen months, was the restructuring of the National Bank a plan for the last sixteen months?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u39	For the purposes of the recapitalisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u40	In fact, for the purposes of the recapitalisation. However, I would like to ask again the question: I have heard all these catastrophes. I have not heard a single word about the New Democracy policy, and what Mrs Kerame proposes about the policy of red loans, the policy of protecting the first home, the policy of regulatory protection for weak groups. Let me remind you, of course, of some other elements. I don't want to take the floor from Mrs. Fotio. Has the social state deteriorated so much? All the recruitments that the present government has done - all, I stress - are in health and education. This is the first time that health and education expenditures have increased in the crisis. I would remind you that for the first time the health system covers all Greek citizens. I can go on saying more. So I'm bringing it back to class, first of all, with evidence that is real and not fantastic. Secondly, we must finally listen to your positions on the issues that we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u41	Mrs. Vaki has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u42	Madam President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u43	As there is no dialogue, Mr Kerameou, you will respond on another occasion. It's a rhetorical question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u44	Madam President, the Minister specifically referred to me and I have to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u45	The report is general.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u46	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u47	Don't insist. As you can see, it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u48	If you don't want the Greek Parliament to hear the answers, I'd be happy to hear them. But I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u49	That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u50	...that they need an answer to what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u51	Then the Minister will answer you again. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u52	That's good, Madam President. A little dialogue in democracy is good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u53	The dialogue is taking place, Madam President. Parliamentary Republic we have.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u54	We have a democracy, but we also have a limited amount of time. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u55	First of all, I should like to refer to some of the points. Minister, if I understand correctly, you are questioning the figures of your own ministries. The evidence I mentioned is elements of your ministries. Also, because you said there is no recession, I imagine that you are also questioning the Governor of the Bank of Greece, who spoke clearly about 0.3%...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u56	Can I interrupt you for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u57	Minister, let me finish, please. So he talked about 0.3% recession for 2016. Secondly, as far as the New Democracy programme is concerned, Mr Mitsotakis spoke clearly from the Step of this House on our programme - you called it a 'advertising spot' - 2% of the primary surplus and 4% of the development over five years. I imagine you also turned Mr Stournara into an advertiser, because Mr Stournaras then, after Mr Mitsotakis, spoke of a 2% primary surplus. You will hear all this very thoroughly in the positions of Mr. Mitsotakis at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. You'll see exactly what our schedule is. There, unlike you, we will not promise everything to everyone. We will not promise to abolish the ENPIA, we will not promise a third and fourteenth wages, we will not promise an increase in the minimum wage. Also, a talk of education and health. Yes, you have established something that New Democracy had already done in 2014 to cover the unsafes. But, Minister, have you been to a public hospital recently? I say that because I go every week because of my son. Do you know what the situation is in hospitals? Do you know that there are no doctors? Do you know that the eleven thousand recruitments you had in 2015, you spent all of them in horizontal re-intakes? The eleven thousand recruitments you had instead of sitting down to see what the needs of each ministry are, you reinstated horizontally those who had been made available by the Government of New Democracy. One final element - also official - that I think says everything is the study of the Bank of Greece for 2015. It proves - and I shall be tabling it for the Minutes - that in 2015 whatever measures were taken by Mrs Fotio - which I fully respect - we had the greatest increase in poverty. We had an 8% increase while in 2014 we had a 7.1% reduction. Whatever your government has done, something has not done well, Minister. On page one hundred and sixty-six of the study of the Bank of Greece shows that in 2015 we had an 8% increase in poverty while in 2014 we had a 7.1% reduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u58	Mrs Bakis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make an exception to what the previous speaker said. We have heard from most of the colleagues of the Officer's Representation in deep-speaking speeches defending living work and the social state. We have also heard the word'solidarity' in their vocabulary. Welcome to the world of solidarity, ladies and gentlemen, of the Staff Regulations, even late. But I wonder about your courage and hypocrisy. Where did you discover solidarity? In the ruins of the social state that you systematically demolished, at work, in dignity, in the education and health that you handed over to the markets and individuals? Do you dare talk about health when no appointment had been made, while instead giving our two and a half million uninsured fellow citizens free access to medical care? At the same time as you demolished, there were sea-lovings with a mere promise and no guarantee, no gifts, call centres from the 'SIEMENS', 'black' funds for which you are now embracing. Will you soon begin to give up the government for this? Is it also about Mr. Christoforakou's strange leaving? Oh, no, no, no, I'm gonna go into the law proposal now. With great interest I have studied the proposal for a law tabled by the Communist Party of Greece concerning a major issue of Greek society, the highly indebted households. Let me begin by saying that the Minister has said that the term 'freel family' must be labelled. I do not consider either the left or the classic term 'free family', if you refer to each family with a taxable income of EUR 50,000. This category currently covers 90% of the Greek society and therefore includes the middle layers. However, this does not negate an existing problem, that the crisis has drowned the majority of the social classes in debts and crushed the old middle class. The crisis and the hard memorials of the 2010-2015 period led to the loss of the country's national wealth. The crisis blushed loans and gave birth to a million and a half unemployed. The sizes reflecting the deep darkness of the 2010-2015 period are relentless: 25% loss of GDP at 25% recession, offshore from 7% before a crisis at 27% of unemployment and 63% deinvestment of the Greek economy. In all the arguments about the destruction of the economy in SYRIZA - ANEL by the well-known Cassandra of destruction policy based on police novels, which put off the reader, but which undermine both the credibility of the country and the public interest, I respond monologuely: 0% recession in the past year and 1.5% fall in unemployment. No one triumphs. Without inexpensive triumphs, but without the melancholy of giving up the responsibility of government in an environment of globalised, irreversible and inconsistent neoliberalism, you will allow me to say a few words about the government's legislative work on the protection of highly indebted households. First, with the amendment of the Katseli Act in November 2015 not only ensures the protection of households with incomes of up to EUR 19,000 corresponding to 25% of Greek society, but the state fully supports those debtors who are unable to repay the loan of their first home. With regard to the remaining 65% of Greek society. Secondly, the repayment of the loan takes into account the actual commercial value and not the value of the property before 2008, before the crisis. Third, first house housing loans, as well as business mortgage loans, based on the amendment of 4354/2015 on the sale of loans from non-bank institutions, are fully protected until 2018 if and since the first house has an objective value of up to 140,000 euros. 93% of categories fall in this category. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the 14th of July, the day of the French Revolution and the occupation of Bastille. Europe, which gave birth to the concept of human and civil rights, which gave birth to the social state and to the idea of progress, was in the 21st century to introduce another term in its vocabulary. The one in the humanitarian crisis. Our country, selected as an animal of hardest capitalism, was flooded by the cartons of the newly underprivileged homeless, by the new generation of migrants of very high qualifications, by the backup army of the unemployed, by the delivery boys, the interview for a waiter of many postgraduate degrees, black, black, and unsecured work. The block and the wandering of the perverts of the market of a broken land became the risk signals of a generation that had received it history to live on much worse terms than the previous generation, as well as the idea of progress taught us by the enlightened Europe of other times. Social medicine aggregations in previous years became the norm and reminder of a state that was absent. The victims of the humanitarian crisis cannot make a family and may not be part of the term 'local family'. What did this government do about the humanitarian crisis? Let me have a few words. Alongside the cuttings of the Euro-State of austerity, i.e. the endless fiscal tools of neoliberal Europe, this government imported 'cutters of poverty' or 'donors of solidarity'. Some particulars: We gave free electricity and water to families that were immersed in the dark and did not become immigrants in another country but immigrants in history. They migrated to the period of the First Industrial Revolution. We gave a rental subsidy to twenty-one thousand ninety-eight-holders, a solidarity card to forty-seven thousand ninety-sixty-seven beneficiaries that has been renewed, as you know, ten times. We gave free access for four hundred thousand people to museums and archaeological sites, because culture is oxygen and a term of life, bruising in ten and a half thousands of students, because under the lust of Mr. Samaras''success stores', there were children half-willing to hunger. Today, the pilot project of social solidarity income in thirty municipalities also begins. We abolished EUR 5 in the hospitals and allowed free access of two and a half million of our insured fellow citizens to public health, while increasing the health budget by 300 million for the first time after six years. All the above, with a radically different spirit and philosophy. Our vision is not the'success story' of the philanthropist tip and the fish that dictates either the vote or the neoliberal withdrawal of the state. Our vision is driven by the uneasy effort to reinstate a future and a life perspective for the chartered people of the crisis, building up solid, solid structures that will allow reintegration into work and dignity. Our philosophy is not to share the pie unjustly and unequally and to throw the vouchers' haircuts to the poor, but to create the backdrop of a human life. Ladies and gentlemen of the Communist Party, I am already reminded of the above. You will accuse us of the temporary soothing of unhappiness and of the left alibi of a social mediation of the greatest crisis, of an unjust and exploiting system. We have assumed a historic responsibility, that of governance within the triumph of the global financial system. We chose not to escape into the prey and glossy territories of the theory. We chose not to stay at the border of the opposition permanently protesting. It's a heavy responsibility. So the great bet that the Greek people will be judging and history is not to make a management of misery and poverty, it is not to make meddlers of misery. On the contrary, it is to eliminate the causes that create it. The development law we have recently adopted, the law on agricultural cooperatives and the ESRB, which is now aimed at strengthening unemployed scientists and start-ups, is moving in this direction. Sadly, the economic miracles and magical sticks that sparkle reality belong to the sphere of myth. I'm sure the road we chose to walk isn't turned on rose petals. Besides, there's no way. You walk the road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Vakis, for the time. Mrs. Fotou, have you asked why?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u61	After Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u62	Come on, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u63	Madam President, I too have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u64	They are the Parliamentary Representatives. This is where I've been marked with this show. Why have Golden Dawn asked for the floor fourth and so forth? Do you want to talk later?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u65	Madam President, the President-in-Office before you has announced the order in which we would be sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u66	But there are signs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u67	I'd be right after Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u68	The third is Mr. Karathanasopoulos, then it's Mr. Dannelis and the fifth is Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u69	I have also asked for the floor, Madam President, as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u70	Yeah. Then it will be the PASOK Democratic Assent - DIMAR, sixth and then in your turn. You'll all talk. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Madam President. The debate not only about the government, but also about the other parties. We did not know if we should ask for permission from the river next time whether we should table a proposal for a law. What kind of public prosecutor's style was that of the river rapporteur? Who's taking tests? In the system? That he can lift up the anti-CIC forehead and that he can take it to the end? That's a good concept of democracy you have! Can't opposition table a proposal for a law and demand that it be voted on? Bravo, I am bowing - I really say this - on the concept of democracy which the Potami has.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u72	I'll answer you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u73	You can answer as much as you like, but that's a disgraceful attitude and behavior we've never seen. I'm telling you, such a disgraceful attitude and behavior. It seems that your rapporteur every time he looks at his face in the mirror he thinks he sees the JRC. What did he say? Do they give and take the JRC with the government for the electoral law? Are you all right? Do you want to say your own potential tricks or other parties? The JRC is clean for the electoral law: it is simply an unadulterated analogue. What are we voting for? We are only voting for the abolition of the 50-seat bonus. We don't even get into limits for one another. Nothing! Does the government that brought us the proposal for a law to vote on the electoral law? If that's possible! What a twisted fantasy one has to have to say such things when the same proposal for a law has been discussed and in 2013 on the New Democracy - PASOK conflict. However, it is not only the Potami that gives the Centrons the test, but also the Centrons' Union once again. Half-truth, that's a lie. Either you don't know how to read or you have to say that you only say half the reality, which is lying. Are we only talking about farmers and fishermen in the proposal for a law? The professionals didn't see them? The craftsmen didn't see them, the self-employed, the merchants? Don't you know they include a law proposal, too? The retired and the employees don't know them? Who doesn't? Industrialists and shipowners. Unless you want us to include them in the law proposal, if you are defenders of what we exclude them from the law proposal. Because we're the only ones who rule out the proposal for a law. We include the unemployed, everyone. Is that what you want us to include? So you're the lawyers of shipowners and industrialists? Say it, 'cause you're defending those interests. You're not talking about them, absolutely nothing. What do you think? Who are you targeting? Some layers, which may have benefited, took some more crumbs and targeted pensioners, civil servants to leave to the unavoidable industrialists and shipowners. Why do you want to do this? You want to make them all poor so that the capitalists have their privileges. From this point of view, then...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u74	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u75	I didn't interrupt and I won't let you interrupt me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u76	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u77	I'm not letting you interrupt me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u78	Please, Mr. Georgiadis, Mr. Karathanasopoulos!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u79	So from this point of view, we ask SYRIZA: Really, what changed since 2013? Then you voted for the JRC's proposal for a law. Did the JRC's law proposal change? No, she's the same. We didn't change anything. What's changed? Opposition became government. Then was the JRC's law proposal realistic, and is it not today? Is he in the fantasy sphere today? You changed your mind. Of course, we also knew in 2013 that it was hypocritical all that you said and the proposals you were making. Just because we knew very well that all you were concerned about is winning from the popular discontent so that you could then drag the people into a new memorandum as a government managing the urban system and the interests of capital. You were selling seaweed for silk ribbons. From this point of view and in general with the JRC's legal proposals and its attitude, it is precisely trying to defend the interests of the whole people against the bourgeoisie and the richest middle-sized strata that were gaining both the growth period and the period of crisis. We are saying that today a family is able to live with dignity, that is to say, to satisfy all needs, to be able to go on holiday for 15 days in a five-star hotel it really needs 40,000 euros to be able to ride. Is that a luxury? Who built it? That's all it takes so she doesn't have a problem cutting her power so that her kids can dress them up, she can have everything. That is what a family needs today and not the EUR 500 you are giving it. In fact, you say that since 500 or more they are privileged and that they can live a family with 500 euros. That's our difference. Our difference is that we do not want the people to become comfortable in misery and impoverishment. We do not want the theatre to be luxury, the cinema, the concerts, holidays, recreation, travel abroad, the good book. They deserve it and they must have it. For you all this is luxury. The people cannot have them, the unemployed, the people's people's households and they must be at home in the various eruptions. You're hypocrites, SYRIZA, because you say that 40,000 are not a popular family. I would understand that if you said this on the left, if you did the criticism and said, "Let's reduce it to 20,000, and let's delete 100% of the debts, get more generous." Then I would understand that your reasoning might have a basis. But here, you don't even say that. You don't dare say that to make us, it's supposedly, a criticism of the substance on the left. We therefore say clearly that the situation experienced by the highly indebted people's households must be paid by those responsible. Really, who has led to the overcharge of people's households since 2000? Was it not the banks themselves who, in the name of pushing over-accumulating funds and prolonging the manifestation of the crisis, who gave offshore loans, holidays, holidays, and what else can be imagined at high interest rates? Why did you do it? Did the banks lose or win from this process? They won. Only the interest they've taken over all these years is enough for them. They've earned the funds multiples. That's the first. Secondly, it was not the government policies that the people could not meet a number of needs from housing, up to anything else and had to resort to bank lending to meet these needs, why could it not have been able to walk with the dividend and work? Third element. Who reduced wages and pensions? The governments have reduced them - and you are doing so today and the current government is reducing wages and pensions - and big capital, which wants very cheap workers. Who led to unemployment hundreds of thousands of people? The capitalist crisis and the interests of the capitalists, who carry businesses elsewhere or who close businesses, put a padlock, as Marinopoulos did, transferring profits abroad and living happily. Who's to blame for the professional locks? Is it not the irresponsible action of big capital? Isn't it because of the liberalisation of the market, its monopolies? Isn't that what you go on with the OECD toolbox? Is it not the government's fault of overtaxing against these accusations? Who leads to the disembodiment of poor medium-sized farms and to abandon its fields? Is it not the common agricultural policy that you are defending? Aren't the interests of big businessmen and industrial foods that take them cheaply for a piece of bread, farm goods? That is what you are defending today. They are therefore to blame for the situation in people's households, and we say they have to pay. Of course, the banks must pay, so that the people can be relieved of overcompensation. That is why we are tabling this proposal for a law. At least, Minister, let us admit one reality. You spoke of a relationship between three, the banks, the state and the borrowers. With your policy, really, by hand in the heart, who did you benefit? Don't you support the banks? With the recapitalisations you're doing, and the previous ones and today, and with the laws you bring, did the banks pay anything? Oh, no. They were supported by the Greek State, i.e. the taxpayer, the people's classes that are taxed. Because some aren't taxed. They also pay borrowers, who are still captive of bank borrowing and will remain captive. It extends this commitment to the banks. You prolong it even further. That is why we say that with your current policy you are supporting the banks. At the bottom of the line, on your own government - not that the previous ones were miserable - the sweater began to throw out for auctions. You have reached the point of bringing an amendment at 2 p.m. to be voted on at 4 p.m., to allow the various funds to be managed by the first house to be protected, this 25%. Yes, you brought it at 2 o'clock, not to be sold, but to be managed and administered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u80	It's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u81	That's what you've done and it's obvious. We have even come out and denounced it very clearly and told you'remove it or give us the opportunity to bring a roll-call vote'. And you didn't either. One amendment, which was signed from the last day and you did not bring it along with the others. You set it up, that is, the thing. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] From this point of view, we are saying clearly - and I conclude with this - that the only thing that the government and the other parties that are opposed to you is how to manage poverty, leaving the great capital and the interests it has. It is also true that, in your policy, these interests are served and you tell the people to learn to live with misery and impoverishment. That is why you are trying to teach the people, by limiting their demands to certain stunning areas of your supposed humanitarian policy. As for 'Cassandras', you do well to be careful what you say. Were we Cassandras on the Maastricht Treaty you voted on? Were we Cassandras when we said the capitalist crisis was coming? Were we Cassandras, when we told you you'd bring the third memorial? Were we Cassandras, when we told you you'd unleash the insurance system? This is what is confirmed in practice! So what we are saying is that the next measures will be precisely the biggest liberalisation of the labour market, which you have found largely liberalised and which you are maintaining, because for voucher you cannot whistle indifferently. New Democracy and PASOK have done so and you continue to use them in the public sector. The rented workers were made by the New Democracy and PASOK and you are extending them to the public sector now, so that public agencies too can have rented workers. That's what you're doing. You have therefore found an integrated institutional framework which abolishes any collective right to work and safety and extends it even further until everything remains is completely destroyed. And you will do that with the next measures that you will bring in the framework of the autumn evaluation, the second assessment, the liberalisation of the labour market, the trade union law and the right of collective redundancies and the lowest wage. Here we are, and you'll remember, and it'll be a dala noon!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mrs. Fotio has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u83	Thank you. One thing that constantly comes back to the debate, if you want me to make a more general criticism, is what seems to be a unified policy of morality. So everyone is trying from the JRC to New Democracy to convince the Greek people that it is about a government of scams and hypocrites, without separating lines in it. It's a surprise to me. Secondly, the other very interesting thing that is happening here is that we are using, regardless of sources, statistical data, overcoming as we think and as much as we think, in order to strengthen our views - on the one hand to the other - that the SYRIZA Government has brought about full destruction in this year and a half. This is the second homogeneous, if you like, conclusion. I am also amazed that there are no divisions here, that nobody can understand how all the parties are embodied, regardless of ideological, political, etc. of the contents. The third point today is that if there is what has been said, the interests of the people vis-à-vis the bourgeoisie, or if the concept of the bourgeoisie is abolished and incorporated into the people's family, the rights of the people. That's really interesting. What if he has many needs each of us today to go to a pentaster that Mr. Karathasopoulos told us? It does. But here, in fact, at the end, we will be abolishing the fight against order. For as long as we continue with this argument, I believe that the limits are not discernible. I will always talk about this area, which the whole House has once again, indiscriminately of ideological differences, describes that this government is giving outlets to the people, and even worse than before, if you wish, just to keep them to poverty, they say 'because this government is incapable'. They know the urban state better, they know what solidarity will mean and so on. And they're moving on. It also makes me the impression at this point that there are still no dividing lines, that there are no differences in how there are policies for vulnerable groups, so that there is dignity for these groups, so that there is a long-term planning of what will be done. I have mentioned many times in committee and for this bill, but in particular in this Chamber, what exactly are we planning: a new framework law that is dismantling the entire prosperous state of the right, which will dismantle the entire prosperous state, which has been built up since 2014, but has mainly been set up with Frederick. It is accidental that the visits of the staff of the New Democracy today - this is how they are announced - to all the NGOs, to all legal persons under private law who now leave workers with thirty months' unpaid leave, while having unsatisfactory assets, such as the Elderly House of Athens and so on.Huh? Are we all the same? Is that what the Greek people have to understand? And who at the end serves other than the Golden Dawn? Can he serve anyone else? Today, he opened up the social income of solidarity to thirty municipalities. [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing.]] I need some more time, Madam President. I have criticised how it applied last time. I have criticised and said what different measures we are doing. I am not going to stand on this today, I will now be very simple. We for the first time, firstly, trained the people with the CIDs, secondly, changed the entire information system and, thirdly, we informed the door - the Greek citizens of their rights with all the printed material - door - door - so that the Greek citizen would know where to go and what to do - and we gave him the great right through this procedure immediately to know whether he is a beneficiary or not. Since the morning when we opened up two hundred beneficiaries have been guaranteed. In other words, man does not need to be troubled or to wait for the results after a couple of months or anything. But when he finds out that over the last six months he has entered into what we call extreme poverty, he will be able to apply at the same time - since what he submits is right - is considered a beneficiary. Isn't that nothing? It's all - don't you get bored - a scumbag? The dignity of people doesn't matter at all? Is this the inability to talk about the "worthy" of the New Democracy and PASOK who failed to plan a minimum guaranteed income and who screwed it up and which people learned afterward, the municipalities were not trained, nor did we have to redesign it from the beginning with another perception and theory? That's what repeats the midsts of interacting, morning, noon, night. I heard shocking things about pensions. All the wings! Wages have been cut, I just heard from the JRC. What wages were cut? So, how much can you stand - let's say - everyone have a voice in here without differentiations? Should we only invoke our ideological background to highlight the differences? On the substance of the case, it is the same. The end. Despite this daily history, a daily washing to the Greek people from the media, at the end the Greek people will understand very well and the effort that we make and what we are making and what we will judge when it comes to being authentic, as the only one knows how to judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Fotio. I would ask you to start respecting time. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we all agree here that how justice works in a favoured state demonstrates the quality of democracy and the effectiveness of executive power. Case ‘SIEMENS’. It was poured abundant ink, stems were accused, rightly or unjustly molested, politicians and poisoned, perhaps irreparably, the public dialogue under his assimilation "all the same is, all the same get". And now that the time has come for the crisis, the SIEMENS case has been postponed indefinitely. It is obvious that there are tragic inadequacies and diseases in the functioning of justice. We know it and we repeat it all monotonously. However, we cannot turn justice into a scapegoat in such a sensitive case where the state and its political staff have invested so much goodwill, political added value, and while it should be a matter of honor to the political world, and therefore it has been dealt with from all sides over the years by the public dialogue with the appropriate seriousness, we have nevertheless left time to leave, allowing the fate of postponement of the trial to prevent us. I'm afraid the same things will be found in the Golden Dawn trial case. Well, that's good. He's coming. Let's catch up. However, we must ask ourselves why issues that make us collectively difficult as a society and as a political system are usually referred to in the bells. Do we really not want to treat all this as a political system? Do we have enough of the post-retrospective crocodile tears of each executive authority that no one is finally convinced? These are pathogens that characterize us over time and in many of us have led us to the general - and not only economic - bankruptcy. Ladies and gentlemen, the JRC is distinguished over time for the stability of its opinions and ideas, for the stability of its petitions and actions and is worthy of respect for it. With the proposal for a law that we are debating today, the JRC aspires to help the people's family, proposing a very specific way of operating the banking system, the multitude Greek banking system, consistent with its established views. The rest, including SYRIZA, opposed to what he said, of course, two years ago on these issues, recognizing the utopian of the proposals for today's reality and their impracticable, of course, refer the proposal for a law to an undetermined future. Obviously, it is the JRC's right, as is all the rest of the opposition parties - and perhaps an obligation - to propose draft laws. Potami is nothing but questioning this right and this obligation. It is simply because the process, as has evolved, as it has been adopted, seems to be a pretext, because it does not lead to any substantial completion, perhaps in order to defend the authority of the parliamentary procedure to reconstitute the motions for a law of the parties to the conflict. Returning to today and now, in the real world, let us consider the criticality of moments for the wider European banking system, an integral part of which is of course the Greek one. The European banking structure is at a time of pain, protracted pain, at a time of increased earthquakes, where a potential "Armagedon" for the whole real economy is being held behind each hit. There are delays in the real European banking union. A comprehensive European plan for dealing with red loans is needed, with the creation of a European Deposit Guarantee Fund, as envisaged in the initial design of the European banking union. These, if they are not done soon, are likely to be a new detonator of a possibly much larger crisis than the one we have experienced so far. The scale of the Italian banks' problem is already known, as well as what is whispering about Portuguese banks. The Italian banks’ red loans amount to a negative amount of EUR 360 billion. The exposures of the central banks of the European North to the South are increasing. Deutsche Bank’s exposures to derivatives go up to an unthinkable level, which no one can predict how to deal with. The need for a radical change in the European banking example is now evident. Banks in Europe must separate themselves from their functions, and this may mean that banks should not be engaged in any kind of economic activity. A solution urgently needs to be found that strengthens the security of the deposits of citizens and the financial institutions themselves, but also of the jobs they create, so that we do not always get to a threatened new untapped, indeed a crisis. Why is the question of who will pay for this crisis again? Again, the European taxpayer? Is it not more than 3 trillion euros that have cost him the adventures of the banking system so far since the start of the crisis? Will the Greek citizen again pay, who has recapitalised the domestic financial institutions three times, even in part? Because a lot of talk is being done about bank delinquency, I would like to add that, unfortunately, it is probably too late for tears. This is a long-standing development if we do not want to be fooled. In 2013, the Greek State borrowed around EUR 25 million for the recapitalisation of the banks. The owners then lost the banks, but also the funds they invested. The banks went through public control of up to 94%. Under normal circumstances, the State should have sold the shares at any time in order to obtain a profit. If this scenario were to evolve smoothly until 2013, after 2013 the Greek State would reasonably have expected to sell those shares against a relatively high price. In mid-2014, the stock market value of the shares acquired by the State amounted to EUR 18,5 billion. At the end of 2015, and after the known tragic manipulations of the Government, the Greek banks reached an estimated value of just EUR 800 million. It was the period when the well-known joke had been heard, that with an OAED allowance one could become a major shareholder in a Greek bank - bitter joke. Finally, the Greek banks were purchased, as it were next, from foreign funds. That was the real delinquency of the banks and it was achieved at that time not so far away with - I fear - the maximum responsibility of the current government. Then it happened, and not now, that we are in the midst of the barren controversy over the administrative boards, their composition and the staffing of the Financial Stability Fund by Greek or foreign managers. Ladies and gentlemen, to this great importance for the real Greek economy, tomorrow, the recovery, stabilisation, the possibility of regaining our confidence, supporting what we lack, creating the conditions for substantial productivity, for a substantial production of national wealth, which will also bring solid jobs, which is the major social problem, for all this, unfortunately, we are also talking about issues that I do not think will bring us to the desired result. As usual, we swallow the camel and dilute the deaf on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u86	Thank you for the time too. Mr Cassidyris, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u87	First of all, I will denounce that the People's Association - Golden Dawn and its parliamentary group have tabled a series of legislative proposals on major national and social issues, such as the proclamation of the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone, the abolition of funding for the parties, the fight against illegal immigration, which is currently a wound to the body of Greece. None of these motions for a law have come for debate or vote in plenary. This was a well-established beginning of the old New Democracy - PASOK ruling, which continues exactly the same tactic and current coexistence of the SYRIZA and ANEL Memorandum. I'll come to a topical issue first. The pan-Hellenic moment, as far as the inconveniences are concerned, are concerned, as far as the notorious case is concerned, the notorious 'SIEMENS' scandal. SYRIZA has turned against the Prosecutor of the Prosecutors' Prosecutors, a corrupt prosecutor, the notorious Prosecutor Doyaku, known as "High Panathenaikakis". Don't SYRIZA talk about the Doyaku case, because you knew it all since April 2014, when I had denounced this juror for very specific criminal acts from here. In fact, I had submitted evidence and documentary evidence, which is well known and at the disposal of the House. And nothing has been done at all. So don't talk, so SYRIZA, because SYRIZA tolerates and supports this criminal group, which continues to act within the court of appeal and within the Marios Ice. Because this person, along with the criminal organisation he has created, is behind the anti-Golden Dawn project, behind the Vengepoulou scandal, behind the "SIEMENS" case now. It's very convenient for SYRIZA to have Doyakos, so that SYRIZA can perform Merkel's orders and say that it's all about Samara's old circuit. Samaras, however, has died. It is a political body now and does not exist in the country's political life. It suits you still operating this circuit to do this dirty job. Because it is known that Merkel has been ordered to bury the 'SIEMENS' scandal. And that's not a direct order from Merkel. They are the German industrialists, those who control Merkel and Shoeble and they pass the orders through them to the Greek Government. You have been pleased that the 'SIEMENS' scandal is being described. Soon we will see Karavela and Christoforikos bathe in Mykonos with this tolerance, which your government shows in this outrageous circuit. A national government in Greece, a Golden Dawn government, is required to hit these circuits, so that all those responsible for disseminating and stealing public money can go to prison. As you remember, a few weeks ago, Members of Parliament had come here to speak to them about the problems of Greece. Only Golden Dawn told them that their state is a corrupter, that they export corruption, that they refuse to send to Greece to judge the number one factor of the "SIEMENS" scandal, the Christex. Nothing has been said by SYRIZA's representatives. Nothing has been said by the representatives of all those who once represented the anti-German and who are now turning into lazy German economic oligarchy. To come to the issue of electoral law, another major issue of topicality. Your Prime Minister has great talent to throw the ball at the platform. When the country is sold out, when the country is betrayed, when foreign criminals in Omonia murder civilians with ten bullets and not arrested, it is very convenient for everyone to discuss the electoral law. And PASOK's spokesman, the Genuine Fofi, appears, and says that Golden Dawn tends to be a regulator in the political things of Greece. For the first time, I will agree with the PASOK representative. Of course the Golden Dawn is the regulator in the country’s political activities. Of course, if this terrible persecution had not taken place against us, and if we had not all gone to prison with all these illegalities, which together conspired and committed all the parties to the arc of what we call unconstitutional, we may have been government today. But we remain regulators of Greece's political affairs. I even read on the Internet about the electoral law, that you are now going to reduce the 3% rate for Parliament entry. So we inform the government that it is not only unconstitutional to reduce 3%, it is also anti-national, because this percentage has been established so that circuitry and foreign-power agents cannot function in Greece, and it is not possible for MIT agents to set up a resistance party that will enter the Greek Parliament. It is therefore not only an anti-constitutional perspective of this kind, but also a purely anti-national one. And we warn in every direction: Those who go for micro-party purposes to create such issues as national issues are responsible for national treason. 3% is unnegotiable. And the Kammenos may want to reduce this rate, and Theodorakis himself, because they will not see the House again either with the glass, but, I repeat, 3% concerns the issue of Thrace, the question of Turkish propaganda and the actions of agents within the territory of Greece, and it is an issue that is unnecessarily unnecessarily and the Golden Dawn will fight, to stop even this debate on the reduction of this rate. When the Minister of National Defence now accepts the anti-national proposals and the SYRIZA line to create trade unions within the military, that we have reached the point that a self-determined patriotic Minister of National Defence approves the creation of trade unions within the military, we understand how betrayed this country, at what last point the corruption, interrogation and betrayal has arrived. You have been discussing for months now that you will step on the complexion and today Tsipras is invited "first track table" on the Alfouzo channel. By yesterday, SCAI would close. Now he says Tsipras is a guest of Papachela's. You know what a Papachela's post, his master voice, the voice of the United States. And accidentally, when we got to the point of talking about closing a illegally licensed TV station, the next day being a "first track table" on the most intertwined foreign-interested show and journalist of this station, your Prime Minister should be invited. The country is currently selling off. That is the major issue. The Greeks fall, the Greeks are murdered in the center of Athens and your government is not just nonexistent, but has given it all to foreign powers. The Golden Dawn will resist so that it can get the country's sellout. We are the regulators of the political life of Greece, whether you like it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr. Cassidy. Now Mr Arvanitides has the floor from the PASOK - DIMAR - for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u89	Madam President, Minister, as you do not want to be accused of it all, it is your fault, so you must abandon the view that it is all the previous ones who are to blame and that is to blame for Europe. We have paid the bill for your illusion and education. It makes sense to defend your efforts, only others have tried in the wrong way, as you believe. But we are judging you because you have interrupted the country's attempt for fifteen months. You have deceived, as you say, and you have allowed the results and labors of the Greek people to be lost. You let the stone flow behind the top and call on the Greek people, as another Sisyphus, to bring it up again, only now that they are trembling their feet and it seems impossible. Ladies and gentlemen, in the years of the crisis, one of the biggest issues that has dealt with and continues to deal with the political system and the citizens is what really is to blame for the country's current situation: deficit or debt? I remember the current government, when it was tearing up the memorials, with one hand declaring the deletion of debt as the miraculous medicine for any disease and at the same time, with the other hand, closing the eye in Greek society, promising things, the programme of Thessaloniki, which was impossible to do without creating new deficits. In fact, SYRIZA then, in order to avoid the debate on the substance, responded with some kind of use, which said: "The accounting surpluses create social deficits". So the problems were hidden until reality itself brings them back to us. In this sense, the JRC's proposal for a law, in which the measures to relieve the people's family relate only to deletion of debts and repayment facilities. We must finally speak to the citizens. What you are proposing is individual measures. They alleviate, of course, and this is very important, but they do not solve the problem by themselves. Even if we could proceed with debt write-offs, these would sooner or later be created again, since the income available is not enough to meet the needs of the families. Consequently, the main topic for discussion is how to create real wealth, wealth without deficits, how to increase the GDP of the country, how to create jobs stable and well-paid, how to ultimately increase the income of the Greek family. Ladies and gentlemen, we must produce real wealth and make it subject to conditions and conditions which the whole of the Western world is doing. If we do not do that, the debate on how to share wealth will never happen. All we'll share until then is everything that's left of the loan. To produce wealth, we must first end with myths, we must end with false divisions, such as the bad state that sits on the one side and the good market that solves them all on the other. No one can do this alone. We need an effective public sector, which will work to support the citizen and private initiative, so that it will in turn create jobs, income for citizens, income for the state. We also need to stop the levelling-up. We're not gonna be all the same either. I read the other day an excellent survey, which spoke of 16 billion annual tax evasion in Greece, almost twice above, i.e. from the measures you have already taken with the third memorandum, your memorandum. The interesting thing about this research is that it doesn't just throw a number at random, but it goes one step further and sees which branches tax evasion and what share of tax evasion each corresponds to. If, then, the government does not use such analytical tools as to know how many taxes it can collect, then they will always pay themselves and themselves, which unfortunately no longer have to pay. We'll be chasing the complicator who didn't cut proof, we'll keep talking generally that all businessmen are bad and steal the state. The model of development sought has now become the totem of political controversy. As long as we are trying to sustain an economy, which is almost exclusively based on consumption and low production, we are not going anywhere. These are pure words. Currently, workers in the country are employed by 73% in the tertiary sector and only 27% are employed in the primary and secondary sectors of production, processing, construction and industry. This cannot go on. We must give direction and motivation to new investments. In order to do this, however, there are some basic prerequisites. Firstly, we need to make an analysis of GDP today, look at which sectors we are going well, who and how much we need to strengthen, to whom we have a comparative advantage, to speak specifically and not in logic 'all get a little while'. Secondly, in addition to horizontal investment policies, we need to draw up local projects by industry, even by product, to create local synergies, to make the best possible use of the comparative advantages of each place, to rely on the small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of Greek entrepreneurship over time. Thirdly, we need to create a reliable second opportunity framework for honest entrepreneurs, who have been hit by the economic crisis. If they do not give the signal of relaunching, nobody will ever dare to attempt in this country. Of course, we must say clearly who will be involved in the outcome of development. We have talked in time about the need for a new social contract with the citizens. We have presented our proposals for the radical and social law modernisation of the country. We have stressed that growth must be linked to a horizontal employment clause in every sector of the economy. For us development must be about the daily lives and income of citizens and not savings in tax havens. We want growth for the citizens, the poor people's layers, the families who are struggling to get through, the young people who face the unemployment monster and migrate massively. I personally believe that this is the political bet for the political forces of the country. We must compose opinions, present a new investment model with the greatest possible consensus, give security and certainty to Greek and foreign investors that they can invest in our country, without fear that everything will be overthrown sooner or later by a next government. Madam Minister, since the debate is being held on the relief of the people's family, I would like to table a proposal, which I have made for about six months now, and unfortunately I have not received any response. It is known that the Greek banks offer the possibility of borrowing for the construction or completion of the first house with a housing loan subsidised by the Greek State under specific conditions. It has been noted that several borrowers in previous years, not knowing that possibility, did not make use of the subsidised interest rate, resulting in significant margins of relief if the Government decides to give them that possibility retroactively. Have you studied this? I have asked the Minister of Finance since February. I think it's an issue that you can see with interest. If there is such a possibility and you can do so, of course, in the context of the smooth operation of the banking system and the commitments made by the country, do so. It'll relieve a lot of people. The same is true of the proposal for a law that we have tabled for the minimum guaranteed income. At the moment, the members of the Greek families who are in extreme poverty are seven hundred thousand. If you had stepped on the design given to you by the previous government, right now the program would have been fully implemented throughout the country and it would have relieved thousands of families who really need it. It took sixteen months to rename the programme from guaranteed social income to social solidarity income. And today you are telling us that you will pilot only the first of the three pillars of the programme. So it is enough for a new programme with your own seal to move forward by tearing down every effort that has been done so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u90	Let me give you this brochure and read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u91	I'd love to. I'll come by and get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u92	Take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u93	You suggested it to me. So I'll have access to the evidence to see them. We urge you once again to change the line and adopt, even now, the proposal for a law of the Democratic Partnership. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has once again demonstrated that its rating on justice remains firmly below the base. It is impressive and regrettable for the Greek citizen to hear that the trial for the 'SIEMENS' case is suspended indefinitely because the government has been lost in translation. After "we lost in negotiation"...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u94	You've frozen them all these years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u95	Here it is. Bright gloss of glory. You miss German translators, I guess. And we can't translate all of this. After you were lost in negotiation and your illusions, you were also lost in translation. Of course, instead of apologizing for the fiasco, the known game of transfer of responsibility began. For the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, someone else is always to blame: the previous ones, the lenders, the involvement. It's always someone else's fault that we have good intentions are unable to do what we dream of. A fiasco that, unfortunately, comes to complete the tragic mistakes of the New Democracy government by escaping the origins of the case abroad. We are asking here for the Stepma to be immediately informed of the Parliament and the Greek people by the Ministers for Justice and Foreign Affairs about the real leaders in this case and the consequences of their actions and omissions. The attempt of some to engage in justice, to blur water, does not lead anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, too. Time is well maintained. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the former Prime Minister, Antonis Samaras, is calling for a short-day absence abroad from 18 to 22 July 2016. Also, MP 2 Thessaloniki, Mrs Catherine Markou, calls for a short-day absence permit from abroad from 17 to 20 August 2016 for a private visit to Imbro. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u97	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Madam President. I have been watching for hours all the debate that is taking place today in Parliament's Chamber. The continuing complaint must once be stopped, but when you're provoked, you have to answer. So I want to say the following three - four things: First of all, after the end of the assessment, the first eight hundred million are disbursed in the next few days, to be granted for dues to public hospitals, the EEAS and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Networks. I would also like to remind you that some sixty-three thousand civil servants will start taking again - reduced, yes, but they will start taking it - a single one that had almost been suspended for four years. I would also like to remind you that all the economists on the planet, no exception, are in the worst case of growth in our country - even Moody's, which does not care for us -1.7% for 2017. Some are more optimistic and predict 2%, 3% and goes by saying. I would also like to remind you that there is an incredible distortion of reality that this government - it has become a slogan now - does not want investment and I have been listening to the same things for a year and a half. TAP is a fact, the Greek airport is a fact, 'COSCO' is a fact, forty-one already scheduled investment from the Junker package is a fact. I think that every day we are making a huge effort from this government so that the country can change its page and move forward. I could say more. I really do not think there has been another government - and above all the Prime Minister - that has accepted such a slandering defamation, not so much by foreigners who have now stopped doing so, but by domestic politicians. We are still hearing incredible things, at the same time that Gabriel comes and says other things, at the same time that travel to China - without me saying great words - is good, and at the same time European politicians are now starting to compromise in the sense that this government is positive, it is right for Greek citizens. I want to say two words about the JRC's proposal, which I have always respected, I respect and I continue to respect. I was also surprised at something - and I heard Mr Dannellis from Mr Fotilla in a different climate. I don't know exactly what Mr. Fotillas wanted to say. Does a party have the right, in this case the JRC, to make a proposal and the government to listen to it, even if it does not implement it? It's his indiscriminate right. Nor is it anything outside the parliamentary procedure. Mr. Danellis used another language. Mr. Fotillas, what did he understand? This must be answered, especially for smaller parties. I have objections to the electoral law, too. I'm saying it straight away. We in our parliamentary group are simply operating through democratic procedures. The majority view passes, perfect and complete. I'm telling you this about Mr. Fotella's delirium, which made me a terrible impression, and I couldn't understand it. Does it not bother him that two major parties, in this case New Democracy and SYRIZA, will claim fifty seats, one Member of Parliament, go out with two hundred thousand votes and the other go out with three? What are these things? The concept of mere analogy doesn't make sense to the small parties, or do you care about the bonus? I didn't get it. I have the feeling that some Members of Parliament are giving an exam somewhere, because I heard the President of the New Democracy say 'they do not have a place on our lists for those who are drafted in a simple proportional manner'. I've heard something like that. I, too, object to electoral law and say it. There is a democracy in the party. I want the twelve Members of the State Vote to be abolished. I don't understand why I have to spit blood, melt sola into forty eight municipalities, and the other one comes in planting, no matter how personal it is. And who defines who is and who is not a person? As for the fragmentation of the regions, I have been aware for thirty years. I heard a revolutionary New Democracy proposal - full of revolution - cut into three. No, man, no! Ten, yes. May the candidate, who is in Petroupoli, Nea Ionia, in Cameroon, who has no access to media or has no money, turn up and come to the House. I have this point of view, but I do not think it is the major one since we see a positive move in general. All three hundred thousand young people who have recently left and are on the electoral lists the right thing for me would be to vote. I am saying these in the Group of the European People's Party, so that we do not mislead each other. I respect the majority decision that I know it beforehand and know who it is. It's over and out. But I want to remind you of something, because I heard tons of docks again. I don't like the complaint, but I want to refresh someone's memory of what was going on in this country. Because it's finally become about everything to blame for Barofakis. I hear it and I hear it again. I didn't like Mr. Varoufakis, but from morning until night I almost hear nothing else. I would like to remind you: Mr Bernitsas, a friend and friend of the former President and Prime Minister, Mr Samaras - the man took him to Qatar - was confused with C4i, with the demilitarisations, he is a member of the college where his brother Samaras is president, a member of the Phytopathological Institute, and he is the man who negotiated the 2 billion euros, charged by the Committee of Inquiry unanimously in Parliament, to make EUR 160 million. I'm saying the country has arrived here. The man really worked with passion. Samara's friend. In other words, the man of 'SIEMENS'. The EUR 2 billion brought us to the EUR 160 million that we did not already get! He did see to it that Mr Papastavros' wife, Mrs Agaliotou, who is a member of the SIEMENS, would make the negotiations. And by coincidence, Mr. Bernitsa has offshore in Panama Papers. I would also remind you that Sikashek - it is a recent case with SIEMENS - has declared over a hundred names of Greek politicians, officially in a German court. I would also like to remind you that in the list of Mrs Tsakalou, the secretary of Mr Christoforikos, there is no name for any party other than two, PASOK and New Democracy. There's a MP who had three hundred and twenty dates with Christophorus. It doesn't mean he's in charge. Maybe he had social relations. I didn't say anything. These lists have been published in four newspapers. Read them. Read these lists to see which people had a transaction at the time with Christoforikos and "SIEMENS" and why there was no move to learn these names that Siksek officially gave to German justice. That's how the country ruled until before. 'Cause it's all the fault of Barofagus! I'm finally out of my mind. I'll start believing it, too. We have judges, presidents, very strong names to give banks to people who are currently indicted. I would remind you that five inspectors of the Bank of Greece were told Provopoulou not to give the bank to Laurentiadis. Which politician was his wife's brother pressed on Proton Bank's board of directors? How did Laurentiadis share the money? In the Committee of Inquiry on the loans received by the media and the two parties there are incredible things. The first weapons of the system were all bribes. All zeros apart! Not only did they make statements "from the outset", not only did they never pay the loans, but they normally brought up the compositions of the then Ministerial Councils. Why hide it, anyway? They were climbing prime ministeres. Minor dictatorship in action. And there comes for the first time a government that tries to put order on its own. Who's reacting there? PASOK, New Democracy and the River. Three in one, I say. I could talk until morning about how the country reached bankruptcy, how night, with the presidency of my friend Yiannis Tragakis, the respected one, with an amendment adopted by the PASOK MPs and the New Democracy MPs, all the bankers for the loans were relieved of what the committee is considering today. It was then that Papadimoulis screamed in here, Kammenos and the others. Nobody heard them. How much did they leave for bills then? How did the bill money leave? Ask economists, and if it's less than 400 billion, tell me. It's Barofakis' fault for bankruptcy, isn't it? No, gentlemen. Corruption and stride in full action. I'm telling you to know that. Some people are done, they just don't want to make a decision. Yeah, that government makes mistakes. Yeah, she was infinite. Yeah, he said too much. I'm on it again. Hand in honey didn't put it. He doesn't. I want to say good at the Theanos of Fire. He really cares about the social state. For the first time. Last year everyone was talking about a recession. You know that. 0.3% became +7%. He's been waiting for 1.8 billion. They didn't go into special and friends' pockets. Five hundred debts, 500 late debts and 800 at Theanos Fotio to do what we should have done for years. Let's not see people go to the dumpsters again. They don't have access to TV. You'll never listen to them. With bills, with PPC, with water, with everything. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Do I have a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u99	You do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u100	I raise the tons, because hypocrisy must have limits. Because we in the Independent Greeks - I tell you to know - unite us, as the Asians, four common pursuits. Tax evasion: Big scourge, for which you did nothing, gentlemen. Nothing at all. Corruption, strife: You did nothing. You've been working with slavery then. He did not even count on you. He wasn't even willing to make a statement on "outside you". Minority dictatorship and political system clearance:. How many people say to us "some have stolen money, some have taken the money". I'm not talking reinsurgent. They're joining us with SYRIZA and will continue to join us until they reach the end. We're some people we didn't come to this House to get rich. I could have a doctor's office in Kolonaki, as they have legal offices, and I could get ten parliamentary allowances. Like me, there's more than a hundred MPs in here, modest, humble children, who don't know them. One thing we won't forgive. Civilian staff, if he puts his hand in honey, he won't put it again. I'm telling you to know that and we're committed to it. And that's the great guarantee for our tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Last parliamentary representative, who will take the floor, is Mr Karras. Then we go into the list of speakers. To make sure they're all here, the first speaker is Mr. Synthrakis. Mr. Carras, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u102	Madam President, I hope I am the fastest speaker today. I hope so. A debate on the current situation of the crisis, which concerns measures to relieve wider layers of the Greek people, is always useful. And why do we say that? We are in the eighth time of crisis and the impact is evident. We do not need to refer to numbers or percentages. The fall in GDP is well known, it is well known that the measures taken are, necessarily or with the will of the governments that are supposed to lead to recovery, the relaunch of the economy. Finally, it will be a question of raising family incomes at the end of the day. Unfortunately, we didn't see it tonight. We did not see it in today's debate. We have simply once again noted that there is a strong controversy with which each side is trying to highlight - and especially from the big parties - the mistakes of the other side and the good deeds of its own. However, if we put everything together in a basket, all this eight-year period, we must at least say that we did not see good deeds. We have not seen any acts that will lead to the treatment of daily, living, problems faced by professionals, families, who are facing youth, who is once again being reunited by Greece. In this sense, therefore, I said, Madam President, that my intervention would be short. And it should be short, so that I don't rupture datacorns, I don't mix up any familiar things. However, I would like to make a comment and I will be allowed by the Members of the Communist Party, because the debate has begun on their own initiative. We, before entering the House, placed ourselves in the well-known nine parts of the Central Association, which were referred to as'multi-retired people', referred to income criteria for pensions, wages, and we had made it clear that economies of scale must be made within and within the public, within and outside the state, so that they can meet not only the needs of society, but also budgetary needs, because we believe that if financial needs are met by themselves, there will be no need for further measures. And we said that we were proposing these so-called nine points in our programme, but that these are temporary, that they are suspension measures and with the return of the economy, whenever it comes, all injustices must be restored, everything that has emerged in the process. Unfortunately, however, this is not possible, because the nine points, in the end, prove that they cannot be implemented, because there is no broader consensus, there is no broader consent, to see that the country is still in a crisis. That is why, in addressing the JRC's colleagues, we have commented on your proposal, and we have said that it is practically proving to be unrealistic, because it starts with a hull of EUR 40,000 annually. I have heard Mr Karathanasopoulos, who has justified that there are indeed costs to be borne by the population as a whole. But that, dear friends, is not possible today. This 40,000, the number you've proposed, it's utopian, it's unrealistic, if you want the expression. We would be happy to sit down and discuss details of real needs. There are revenues of EUR 500 today. Our kids are working for 242 euros sellers in supermarket funds. That's well known. We're not hiding them. And it is pure money of EUR 242, with the so-called elastic hours, with reduced employment, with programmes. These are issues. It is not matters of standing and saying that everyone should have the same level in the present crisis in the present crisis. Mr Georgiadis said - and rightly so, if you would like me - that we cannot only talk about farmers, fishermen, but we need to talk about all the microprofessionals, professionals, to see how the income will be produced. Your side, ladies and gentlemen, thought that we were the ones in pluralism. And it was the well-known epithet, that we served the great capital, the industrialists. If we were to serve them, we wouldn't be nine months here, we'd be a lot of years, if you want to talk about these matters openly, and our voice in here would be much stronger. Well, I don't want to hear these arguments again, at least for the Central Association, which is trying to keep the Centre's space alive, which is now very valuable and useful to the country. Why am I saying this, ladies and gentlemen? I say this for the reason that we see that ideologies are now deviating, as they have been designed. That is why we have placed ourselves in a positive position in the electoral law, calling for the abolition of the bonus, calling for the country's most proportional electoral composition, so that the voice of the smaller parties is made strong and that they can actually participate in the political developments of the country and not be a winner of larger parties, which, with the bonus of the fifty seats supported, acquire hegemony, if you like. And this was demonstrated by the crisis, which has proved this since 2003, when the number of thirty, forty, fifty seats - progressively reached fifty seats - proved this. The hegemony of a party led in the years 2000-2009 to the special accounts, to the major deficits, to the country's excessive lending. The hegemony of a large party in 2009-42%, if I am not mistaken, had the PASOK at that time - led to the International Monetary Fund, because hegemony prohibited consensus. Of course, the continuity of the governments is well known, it is recent. I don't want to talk more about the memos. We are already in the third, and we are already hearing that there will be more stringent measures and we do not know where we are going to drive. We are therefore calling - and I am ending, Madam President - for consultation not on the big ones, on the day after day if we can. If this is done, we will see the presence of the Centro Association in the House as very useful, the voice of democracy is now strengthened through us. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Now we're entering the speaker circle. Mr. Moraite, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Once again the JRC, with a proposal for a law, brings to Parliament the difficult situation experienced by the people's families, the people of labor, and proposes concrete relief measures. These measures, which we propose, give these families a breath for today. Their suffering is not solved definitively, because in this barbaric policy of capitalist production the burdens of the crisis, the system is loaded on the backs of the workers of the populace, in order to get the big capital out, the monopolies of the capitalist crises or with fewer losses than competition, from the end-capitalist contradictions. All urban parties with one voice have criticised the JRC's proposal, of course from the point of view of your capital, the urban system you are serving. Some seemed king's kings and this bronze was called, like the speaker of the Potamio, Mr. Fotilila, who seems to be concerned about the interests of big capital. It is not the new one, of course, but today it has not even kept the pretexts. Mr Fotella did not keep the pretexts and it seemed clearly to serve the banks and businessmen. Of course, they also gave other tests and passed with excellentness, as the speaker of the Centro Association was. We are told that the JRC's proposal is unrealistic, that it is utopian. We did not expect anything else, of course. We have, however, made the proposal from the people's needs and the working people's movement can impose it today, in these circumstances, with its struggle. There is experience, there are conquests, with the struggles of the workers. We ask you: it is unrealistic for workers to live with dignity, the wide-popular strata, to enjoy their hardship, to have health, education, social security. Is it realistic to sink into poverty and impoverishment? Is it realistic that children faint from hunger in schools, people looking in the trash cans for food, and on the other hand that millions of acres of peasants could produce everything in abundance for the food needs of our people? Is it realistic for children to die from the maniac fumes, families to freeze without heat, to have energy poverty, while the country has enormous potential to meet these needs? All this is inherent in the barbaric system of capitalism. The SYRIZA rapporteur and other rapporteurs in the committee were also asked today: 'For the JRC, what are the people's families? What is the income?’ We're responding. It is the income that should cover today's enlarged people's needs. That is the criterion for us. You, however, intend to familiarize themselves, to reconcile workers with poverty, to lower the bar of claims, claims, to forget the losses. You are implementing policies for the humanitarian crisis, as you say. Take it from the poor for the impoverished. Mrs Fotou wondered - and she was impressed - why, since the government is taking measures for the weak, the JRC disagrees. Listen, gentlemen, Mrs. Fotioou, what measures are you taking: 200 euro feeding card for four-member family and up, for a multiple family. So, what are you telling them? You tell them to live with 7 euros a day. You give free electricity, so much a family has to choose: either cook or have hot water or have heating in winter. These measures currently being implemented also applied by previous governments. These are measures implemented in the directions of European Union programmes, which seek to manage a small part of those belonging to extreme poverty. In fact, SYRIZA and the other urban parties are seeking to record these measures in popular consciences as proof of philosophical politics, since in such difficult circumstances and crises they are even taking these few measures to prove the supposed human face of capitalism, to strengthen the anticipation and hope of the people that these measures are now being taken, but when the good news of capitalist development comes, people will be better satisfied. However, the extensive and extreme poverty, which takes a great deal of time in the periods of the capitalist crisis, is the result of the capitalist way of production. You support him, gentlemen of SYRIZA and the other urban political forces, regardless of individual differences. On this basis, the fulfilment of the people's needs will increasingly be greater than the enormous potential today, since they are exploited either in times of economic crisis or in development for business groups and for their profits. From this policy, it has been in a bad state and much of the poor, poor, farmers and fishermen who are drowning in debt. It is a story that started from the past, with trials and convicts of farmers, who could not pay their debts to Piraeus Bank, who bought the old Agricultural Bank. These are loans that have been multiplied, gigantic, incremental incremental and subtle pandemics. It's a nipple on the neck of poor farmers, who can't pay them back, as the agricultural income has shrinked. Of course, you have given priority, as you have pointed out, in the rescue of the banks. However, the inability of poor farmers to meet the loan obligations is also multiplied by the low producer prices in agricultural products, due to the increased production costs, cuts and subsidies, and the fact that our producers are not compensated for the damage they suffer through ELGA. Loyalty from merchants has taken epidemic proportions, such as, for example, unpaid are customs producers from the Sugar Industry for a year. The tobacco producers in Itolo-Carnania are unpaid, the farmers - suppliers in Marinopoulos and elsewhere. This is what the VAT increase is coming from 13% to 23%, and now 24% to the main means and supplies, HISFIA to rural housing, warehouses, mandarins, pasture - where new increases are coming - to abolish the refund on oil. You have tax-free oil for the shipowners you serve for the ships of the shipowners, but not for the tractors of the farmers. And the list of anti-grassroots, anti-corruption measures is not complete. In all this, the coup d'état unleashes safari and threats of seizures against hundreds of thousands of poor farmers, poor self-employed, free professionals. It is the hunting of poor farmers, who cannot pay insurance contributions, today that the premiums are increased, with a SYRIZA Government, who have gone to an increase since the second half of 2015. 50% of the Greek farmers cannot pay the debts. Seventy-one thousand farmers who owe over 5,000 euros have gone to the Centre for the Collection of Insurance Debts, in the CRL, which threatens to seize subsidies. Racks are coming rain to farmers. The postmen can't afford to share them in the villages. And they will then come for another two hundred thousand who owe over 2,000 euros. With the increased contributions brought by the SYRIZA government, as I said in the second half of 2015, farmers who owe the OGA will reach 60% or 70%. This is evidenced by the fact that on June 30, which ended - before you extended - the OGA premiums, only 10% of farmers paid. Whatever extensions you give, they're not gonna pay because they don't. Because that is where your policy, European Union policy, the common agricultural policy, has led them. That is why the JRC's proposal is realistic and timely: because it responds to the major problems of workers, the wide-ranging people's strata, because for them it is a matter of survival for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u105	Please, because you are many speakers from the JRC - four - to keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u106	Madam President, we are three speakers and Mr Katsotis will be seconded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u107	Madam President, our proposal for a law is, what to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u108	I'm just saying keep the time. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Madam President. The JRC's proposal for measures to improve the lives of the people's family is necessary, realistic and directly applicable. It concerns all the people's classes, workers, self-employed, poor farmers, unemployed people who have suffered the consequences of the three memoranda, the anti-grassroots policy of convergence, previous governments, New Democracy and PASOK, the European Union and are in danger of losing their home, their shop and losing their lives. The criterion for us is to meet the people's needs and not to save the banks, which are ready to feed back business groups in the next yurus, in the new robbery of popular income, of the wealth produced. The permanent and stable work, decent wages and pensions, the right to universal public and free social security, to health, to education for young people, to the right to rest and to holidays, to freedom from the ravages, to the debts of the banks on tax, are the main axes that govern the logic of our proposal. For you, these are luxury, they're exaggerated. You consider the limit to EUR 40,000, increasing by EUR 5,000 for every child and reaching the point of distorting, provoking our proposal, concealing the basic point, that, in order to be able to live in a family with dignity, it must satisfy its basic, essential needs. So since you have been smuggling wages and pensions, after you have impoverished the people, you are coming today and telling him that it is an exaggeration of EUR 40,000. Retired and pensioners of 800, 1,000, of 1,200 euros for you are penthouses. They must have guilt from above! To compromise, in other words, with the EUR 300, with the EUR 500. That's what you're trying to do. In other words, you must convince the people that they must live as an impoverished person, with reduced demands, poverty and poorness, and, when you give him the crumbs of the social solidarity allowance, say and thank you from above. Hey, no! The JRC's proposal concerns today. It is not about tomorrow or Monday's Presence. Hunger, impoverishment, humiliation of begging for a dish of food can't stand it! What the workers want today is for them to live with dignity. On the one hand, you say that you do not disagree with the JRC's proposal and on the other hand, you tell us that it is untimely, unrealistic, because of the suffocating financial framework. As the previous governments, New Democracy and PASOK have said, you are reproducing it today. This is the common line of cruising all of you. That is why the employers' organizations are also applauding you. You do not care either about recovering the people's losses or about exempting accumulated debts for housing, consumer loans or meeting modern people's needs. This is where you are, ladies and gentlemen, and the essence of your class choice. That is why you do not all recognise, from SYRIZA - ANEL to the Golden Dawn fascists, as realistic the proposal of the JRC. The neighborhood's small trader, every small professional, the car manufacturer who fights for the dividend, is excluded by definition from the new development law, from sharing prey, while giving large business groups, private individuals, 20 million euros, without own funds, without any investment obligation, without any specific requirements of control. It serves and facilitates the further monopolies of the market and the dismantling of small enterprises of the self-employed. And all that in the name of growth. But growth is not going to be done in the interests of the people. This is growth for the few. Let us take the example of self-employed, small businessmen, traders, craftsmen and automobile workers. The padlocks increased by 78% in the first months of 2016, compared to the corresponding percentage last year, based on the official figures of the General Commercial Register. Twenty thousand operations are closed. With the liberalisation of the professions, the padlocks will rise dramatically. In the seven years of the crisis, about two hundred and five thousand businesses were enclosed. In other words, one out of three was destroyed over the seven years, while some eight hundred and fifty thousand jobs were lost. Five hundred and fifty-four thousand are the members of the OAU who owe contributions and cannot pay them. The insurance law passed by you literally breaks the self-employed, professionals, craftsmen, small merchants and automobiles. It links the insurance contribution to income, which will automatically lead to the drastic reduction in pensions, to pensions - poverty benefits. The tax raid continues with the new law, which taxs the self-employed with 22% of the first euro, without a tax-free amount. The EUR 650 of the trade fee and the increase in the solidarity levy continue. The JRC, in fact, had tabled an amendment to that effect when discussing the development law in the House, which you have of course rejected. You rejected what? A fair request, which is perfectly realistic, is why it is also necessary to support small and medium-sized enterprises and the self-employed in the face of the attack by the monopolistic groups. It is the introduction of the tax-free threshold, at least at the levels laid down for workers and pensioners. To sum up, capitalist development, ladies and gentlemen, is never to be fair growth and democratic for the worker, the self-employed, the poor farmer. The government made her class choice. Mr Stathakis confessed yesterday to the committee, who, in rejecting the JRC's proposal for a law, defended the banks, which have sucked the blood of the people, saying in two parts of his speech that it is not possible for the costs for the relief of the people to be borne by the banks, nor for the costs of reducing housing and business values to be borne by households and states. No, that's not absurd. It's a wicked manoeuvre, it's a tactical manoeuvre, to end that the only ones who are not to blame for the people's crisis and bankruptcy are big capital. Even the view of the three subjects - banks, workers and state - who have to pay equally, leads to the fact that the only ones who have not paid and will never pay are the bosses. This is the patriotic duty that SYRIZA and the coup d'état are urging us. There is nothing different from the famous phrase of Pangalos, 'all together we have eaten it, so we all have to pay'. In fact, this is how you get the banks, the industrialists and the shipowners and all the weights you move them to the popular households. So the crisis was not caused by the people, ladies and gentlemen, but by the capitalists themselves. Neither did everyone eat them together, nor was it a patriotic duty to help us all get out of the crisis. But the only one who pays and continues to pay twice, three times and three times is the people. That is why workers, workers, self-employed, poor farmers, young people, working women, multitudes, third-country workers, disabled people do not have much choice in their lives. The choice they have to do is one and it's a one-way street. Who is she? To really break in conflict with this system that's oppressing them. And if they really are looking for redemption from this hired slavery, the only way out is for the only way out is for the KKE to come back in an anti-capitalist, anti-monopoly direction for the new society, where in fact, with socialized means of production, there will be a central design of the economy and the wealth produced will return to the same where they can find the true vindication of dreams. That's why dreams must take revenge. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Synchronous. But time has become a tire. Mr. Delis has the floor, we're luckyr.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u111	Madam President, Mr Lambroulis will speak first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Lambroulis is third.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u113	No, Madam President. I'll speak before Mr. Delis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u114	I thought you wanted to close the speaker circle. Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Madam President. We have defined this since the beginning of the sitting. There are no changes made but due to unforeseen circumstances. The Communist Party with this proposal for a law, "Measures to relieve the people's family", proves that it is intervening and struggling with solutions today to alleviate popular households and dismantles the various staff and parties, claiming that it has no proposals or that it refers everything to the future. It demonstrates by the proposal for a law that its political position is determined on the basis of the interests of the working class and the public strata. And in this interest it conflicts with the government and all the politicians, the measures, which have led to greater bankruptcy for the working people's families. It shows that it believes deeply that the people have no commitment to big capital in the European Union, and it is imperative to claim the overthrow of anti-population policy. The political direction of the proposal for a law, the framework for fighting targets, is in line with the people's needs. And we think that they can become a weapon in the hands of the working people's movement and help to strengthen his struggle. This is very useful in the current circumstances, which the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict, taking the scourge from previous governments and with the European Union, is escalating the attack on workers, who are close to capitalist barbarism and anti-grass policy. They must draw conclusions on the attitude of all other political forces, the political proposals and practices of each party must be reviewed, on the basis of what policy corresponds to the interests and the social position of the working class, the people's classes, the youth, from the working people's families. Criterion should also be that of rejecting this proposal for a law of the JRC by the Government, experience which we had from previous governments, who had rejected the same proposal for a law. Therefore, the rejection by the government of the request for relief from the overhead households at the time of the crisis should also be a criterion. Because in practice there is a great disparity between SYRIZA's policy of coexistence and the interests of the workers. The rejection of the proposal for a law of the Communist Party by all parties shows that, regardless of the fights for individual, etc., they have a common line of cruising, a common strategy, when they are opposed to requests and fighting targets that directly challenge the profitability of business groups and banking groups, which are the heart of the capitalist system itself. On the occasion of the fact that the proposal for a law of the Communist Party is not to be put to the vote in Parliament, on the basis of the interpretation of the Constitution, is not to be taken by the House by decisions that bring up budgetary costs, in essence we call on the people to draw another conclusion: this Parliament, the urban Parliament, has been shielded in too many ways of constitutional and legislative, so that the decisions taken do not create cracks in the walls and bolts of the system. In the face of the Communist Party's proposal, what does the government promote? It promotes auctioning and, by maintaining the problem, does not give an answer to the impasse of the people's families, rather than tightens the truce of debts in their necks. It is hypocrisy, at the same time as denying the relief measures we are proposing, to lead the people to deeper poverty. Cut pensions and share millions in monopolies. You impose taxes on people's households, tax-free and fined monopolies. Do you share state money through recapitalisation to the banking groups, which will be charged by who? People's mattresses. At the same time, you plan to throw away poor people from home or, at best, make them tenants in their homes. And you come with a lot of political courage and tell the people that the solution to his problems will come to a utopian future, where magically capitalist economy and profitability will serve people's rights. I mean, never. That is why all parties are unsatisfactory and are fighting every claim to improve the lives of the people, to reinstate basic rights, which have become an intrusion in overcoming the capital crisis, since you are jointly serving the competitiveness of business groups and the objective of restoring the capitalist economy. And since the government continues to beat the people with measures - hell, it comes challengingly and exhausts its 'galadomy' to minimal and limited benefits of a poorhouse, which are not even given to all those who live in conditions of impoverishment and poverty, but only to a very small part of them, when the number of people - even these shameful poverty indicators you have identified - who live below the poverty line is two and a half million, while those who approach it are three million eight hundred thousand people. In fact, the ceiling of the government's 'galanity' is more than EUR 7 per day for a family, namely a dish or rental subsidy for a minimum number of households, when the rental subsidy concerned a multiple number of households. And the "Galantomy" in power supply touches the limits of choice if the families warm up or if they light up water heaters, if they cook or light up. As far as - because it has been heard - the hospitals, you get a cramp that this year - you say - you finance them with EUR 300 million. But you are not telling us where these EUR 300 million come from. Is it or is it not EUR 200 million - which are printed in the 2016 budget - from the insurance funds, from the sale of hospital services to the insurance funds, that is, from the patients themselves, the workers themselves, who are being donated, who finance them? And the EUR 93 million - to get to EUR 300 million - what is it? The exercise of private health services in mid-term health hospitals. The receipts, that's it. Money from the people's pocket. That's the raise you're making. And you're getting out and getting cramped that you're increasing the financing of hospitals. And it is a challenge and a delusion that the government should take these measures as a starting point and others that will follow, in support of the so-called vulnerable and vulnerable groups, much more seeking to entangle the people in measuring politeness with the number of crusts, at the same time as there is enormous social wealth, the creation of the workers themselves, which the capitalists are wrought with. To them, then, you give carves, taken from the people and the people, throw crumbs. And that's just for the impoverished. That is precisely the European Union's policy, to provide minimum benefits for the completely impoverished. You are proposing this policy and you are following it. Therefore, do not tell us that this is a rugged, left-wing, subversive political proposal. However, while even these micro-compensations are taking a step in the right direction, the government is jumping on the runner of the anti-grassroots measures, because this is what is intensified the interests of the capital it has undertaken to deal with, leading to the limits of poverty, more and more of the people's households. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] It goes too far, therefore, for the government to present the crumbs it gives as a measure by class, support measures for the poorest, when its policy leads to the poverty of all the unemployed, the workers, the retired, the self-employed, a large part of the farmers, increasing the proportion of both absolute and relative poverty. Thousands of people's families, who find it difficult to make them out, not knowing what to do each time - the drugs or food, electricity or oil - the thousands of retired people who saw the pensions cut further, the thousands of people's homes in danger of losing their homes, all of whom are not recorded and counted as poor by the government, because they are probably considered privileged.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Delis will be completed next.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u117	I shall conclude, Mr President. That is why in the face of the poverty caused by the farm system is the struggle to recover losses, for stable and permanent work for all, for the effective protection of the unemployed, for the abolition of memoranda and all applicable laws. We know very well that a philosophical way out of the crisis cannot exist within the system. However, this does not lead us to resignation from demanding, which is fundamentally in line with the needs of a people who face the widest possible poverty and further the new burdens. Workers and other people's layers must not be reconciled with the drop in demandingness, with which they are watering their capital, their governments and their parties. The criterion in the form of their demands must be the modern popular needs, to satisfy all the material requirements today, but which are sacrificed at the altar of capitalist profit. We know very well that these measures we are proposing through this proposal for a law, as well as similar measures with other proposals for a law that we have tabled, are defence measures. But it is also a defence that enables workers to counteract and, above all, to understand that SYRIZA and New Democracy, like all other parties, have a purely classic policy in favour of capital, regardless of their competition. And all those who promise to improve the position of the people, without affecting the European Union's line, the capital line, offer nothing but the risk of deception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u118	Come on, Mr. Delis. Mr. Lambroulis said it all. I don't think you'll have that much to say. I mean over seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u119	I'll try to be consistent in my time. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the proposal for a JRC law, which provides for certain urgent measures to relieve the people's family, which is squeezed by an anti-grassroots policy, which has become particularly barbaric in the years of the crisis, urgent measures which bring out from the people's households the nest of their overcapacity to the banks, which is drowning them every day. How does the government answer? How do the other opposition parties respond to this proposal from the JRC, which finally agreed to come to plenary? With class reflexes, with class attachment and consistency and identical arguments, they reject it. When they are forced to take place, with capital or with the people, the masks fall. 'The economy cannot stand', you tell us. And when did she last for the people? With a lot of "tea and sympathy" for the popular layers, SYRIZA rejects it, saying that it is not allowed by the domestic and international economic situation and that, if applied, it will cause the immediate collapse of the financial system. In close proximity to the New Democracy, at the same wavelength, it says that this proposal solves a problem, but it creates another one, so it rejects it. The PASOK itself, because, he says, has a different philosophy, not to mention a class choice. Potami protests because the JRC's proposal, which is also considered ridiculous, has come to Parliament and is being discussed. Even that bothers them. While the Centro Association considers it unfair. As for the Fascist Golden Dawn, the very antisystemic and philosophical, this proposal from the JRC for measures to relieve people's households considers it out of reality and gives her laughter, too. We imagine the same in power. Really, who are all those who with one mouth and one voice say no to elementary relief measures for people's households? Aren't the parties that charged the people with three memorials, one worse than the other? Aren't the parties that have the koruna on their heads of the European Union? The parties that implement and support its anti-population strategy? The parties that move within the capitalist street? No matter if anyone else is on the right, another in the middle and another on the left of this same road. Aren't the parties that taller our people with the fair growth that will come and then endure? "Don't talk! Don't ask too much! Reduce your demands! Live with the little, live with the crumbs! Don't be afraid of impoverishment! We've prepared you a pile, there's also a solidarity allowance. What you need for you and your children aren't realistic. They are impracticable and unrealistic." Really, what's the income limit for you? The definition of the people's family? You said it was impoverishment. Why do you all consider them unrealistic? But because they affect the sacred and loyalities of the rotten system you serve. Banking profits, capital gains, capitalist growth. That is why you consider it realistic to charge billions of the banks' recapitalisations to the people's backs and do not consider it realistic to delete the interest on the loans of the people's households to the same banks. That is why you consider it realistic to delete the fines and debts of millions of major business groups and consider it unrealistic to delete half of the loan that once took a people's family to obtain a home or study its children. That is why you are squeezing the capital with incentives, subsidies, tax exemptions of billions and you consider it unrealistic not to pay - and with what money - the biggest victims of the capitalist jungle, the unemployed, their loans, by throwing them into the jaws of the money sharks. That is why you consider it realistic and logical that those tax exemptions should be granted to the shipowners or all of them should pay together a few fifteen million, three - four soccer transfers, namely, and you consider it unrealistic that the debts to the banks of thousands of desperate self-employed, poor farmers, farmers and fishermen should be reduced for 30% even. That is why you consider it realistic and reasonable that industrialists should not pay the special tax on gas, but that people's homes should be paid for, that export companies should not be exempted from VAT on electricity, but also from local households. For the shipowners to have tax-free fuels, but not small farmers. Because all the issues that are crucial to capital, its profitability, its competitiveness, unite you against the JRC's proposals. You reject even the ones like the ones that give a breath to our people today. As for candy, namely, that the JRC is all about socialism, we have not asked you, Minister, to build socialism. Besides, you can't either. That's none of your business. Another mission you took, serve capitalist barbarism, and extract the credit, in fact, of capital. In conclusion, your realism begins with the needs of capital. Our realism begins with the people's needs. What realism actually prevails is judged every day by the outcome of the class struggle. That is where the fate of today's JRC proposal will be judged.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr Delis, for keeping time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-six students and two companions from Germany. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope we all agree that we are not here because we have some objections to helping our weak fellow citizens, whether they have been affected by this crisis or in general, but because we are discussing how to achieve this. There is a proposal for a law from the Communist Party of Greece, which, of course, has a specific ideological starting point that governs it. I'm not going to stand up to this. I think this has been done many times in this Chamber. The government responds to this: 'A good idea. After all, we have, we have, too, said that, but now we are government and have realised that this is not happening at the moment." I believe that our rapporteur, Mr Metarakis, like our Parliamentary representative today, Mrs Kerameos, has properly formulated and reasoned for our own things in this area, but also for the proposals we have in the future. Yes, Minister, I am addressing you because you have referred to the advertising spot, where Mr Mitsotakis sets out budgetary targets and there will also be a specific programme on how to achieve these objectives realistically and you are taking this home. And while you were saying so, I honestly think, that is, we should put next door - although it wasn't an advertising spot, but it's a video that everyone can find - the video of Mr. Tsipras, who takes over a sweet lady, who could be my grandmother, and he tells her that he won't cut off the ESS. So let's compare these two videos. There is a constant criticism in this spirit - and the Minister spoke in general - of the government and of SYRIZA. This criticism says this: something said by SYRIZA and by us when we comment on this, when we make forecasts for the future, we are destroying it. Then, when predictions are confirmed and then other lies follow up from election promises and populism, for example, when we want to talk about the past, that is not allowed, because we are paradoxing. That's the charge. It is forbidden and we are obsessed, as the Minister says, with this. The Minister, Mr. Juliarakis, came here the day before yesterday, and became furious, exemplary, asking, "Who is Mr. Galbraith?" They didn't know Mr. Galbraith. And you say to us, Mr Minister: 'Is it possible for there to be such a project and I did not know it?' I would also ask: 'Is it possible that there could be a plan X and that the government did not know?' 'No', the Minister told us in committee and described this project as fantastic. We all imagined Mr. Varoufakis. There was no Mr. Varoufakis. Of course, Mr. Tsipras thought Mr. Varoufakis was fantastic, otherwise, when he was walking with him in the National Garden. You know, we imagined, we all fantasize. We imagined that you once told the world that you would tear down the memorandum, that you would abolish HNVIA, that you would be reassured, that we would live at a time when Mr. Tsipras says "go back, Mrs. Merkel" and play the bullies and dance the markets! We all imagined, imagining that you said something about "no house in the hands of a banker", fantasizing and imagining Thessaloniki program and later the parallel program and that you promised the world that you would give them two billion in humanitarian aid. That's all we imagined and destroyed when we predicted the banks might close. Imagine what we said! We were destroying when we said there could be a third memorandum. Imagine that! Of course, you've exceeded us in our imagination, because we didn't imagine the referendum, we didn't imagine that it could be the 'no' of the referendum to get it and make it a resounding 'yes'. You got us into this. Of course, we never imagined that there was a project in the Prime Minister's knowledge, which was like a junta, which had banks in the state to share the army with us on the streets. Yeah, we didn't imagine that. I don't know if it's true, but if there's such a fantasy plan - someone invokes that - why not do an examination and talk about it? Let's talk a little bit about the past. It's okay. Sometimes we talk about the past. As if it were funny to accuse us of talking and we are obsessed with the past, when the answer - and you are consistent with your methodology - is always the same: 'It is all the fault that we ruled together with PASOK for forty years'. That's the standard answer. Where is she based? It's been based in the past. Of course, we're still imagining. It's not the reality we live in. We imagine that the'red' loans and green loans together you gave them to the funds, we imagine that you have taken these measures, we imagine that VAT has increased, we imagine that the cost of the metro tickets and the buses has increased, we imagine that VAT has been abolished on the islands, we imagine that the taxes have increased, we imagine we will pay HICPs and rather in four instalments, we imagine all these things. We imagine that fifteen thousand four hundred nine businesses were closed in the first half of the year, an increase of 42% last year, we imagine that we are living in recession, imagine that Marinopoulos has closed down, and we imagine that these workers have been fired, we imagine they are shut down. We can imagine all this because the reality is that growth is coming and the Greek economy is being launched. That's the reality. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, That's what's happening. But I will remain in the fact that we are indeed allowed to make predictions, and in politics, it is good to make predictions, because your credibility is also judged by whether the prediction actually comes out. I'm making you a prediction. Now it's summer and September is coming and this whole thing's over. On September 1st, the diary writes, if you see it, "The Indectus principle". Religious year begins on September 1st. The Indectus principle is a Greekised phrase that comes from... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance for thirty seconds, Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u122	I imagine, Mrs. Asmakopoulou, you'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u123	Thirty seconds I asked, Mr President. Do I have them, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u124	Carry on, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u125	So the definition of this word comes from the taxes placed by the Romans. For 15 years these taxes were kept. I predict, then, that you may say about the 86 billion, but since 1 September the account comes into the world's homes and what you will see and what you will hear from the world you cannot imagine at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, too. Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for seven minutes at the maximum.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. The debate today is revealing the position of the parties towards the people's needs and who is here with whom. With the proposal for a law, the JRC is claiming measures today to relax the loop, which is ready to drown thousands of people's families. The question answered by many is whether it has deteriorated or improved the life of the people's family, whether it is safer or insecurity dominates its lives. As I said, the situation has deteriorated, insecurity prevails. What aspect of people's lives are not more difficult, more prosperous? SYRIZA, in his MPs' place, claims that the situation of the people's families is the responsibility of the former government of the New Democracy and PASOK. That's half the truth. The other half is that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, not only did it not reverse the course, not only did it not annul a single law of the New Democracy and PASOK, but it keeps them all, implements all the laws that poor people and with its policy it took measures that exacerbated the lives of the people even more than before. That is why SYRIZA was backed by capital, to implement exactly the commitments he had made before he came to the government, promoting all measures, reforms and restructurings - as you want to call them - that the capital needs today to recover. It continued to burden the people with the burdens of the capitalist crisis, the debt that capitalist development itself created, with anti-grassroots measures, which have no end. And for the job, as Mr. Katrugalos says, he'll take action like in insurance to ensure that pensions are not reduced. So does industrial relations. Pensioners, of course, see the things that go, see their pockets emptied by this insurance policy, by the law - looting, by the blade that fell into their pensions. What does SYRIZA say about the proposal for a law? We do not accept the proposal of the JRC, Mr Stathakis says, because it would have to cut the loans by 50%, it would involve 90% of the indebted households, it would cause problems for the banks. He claims that we have taken measures, we have created a strong institutional framework. For those who cannot respond to this context and lose their home, we have taken steps - it says - for piles, for rent subsidies, for free current, barely heats the water heater. After all - it says - the people learn to live like this, because the conditions have changed. That's his place. They speak with sympathy, understanding, but they legislate hard against the people's strata to defend their capital and needs. You are putting forward the humanitarian crisis programme as a measure to address the consequences of the political support for capital. In this line from a purely class viewpoint, the other parties reacted. They are passionately defending the employer, not least that will reduce its profitability. They extend a protection net to business groups, so that they have the full freedom to exploit workers in the most ferocious way. In 2016, you all consider utopia to have a job with built-in rights, to have a fixed daily time. You consider utopia to have collective labour contracts. You consider utopia to have a home for the worker, the people's family, to study his child, to restore his health, to feed adequately, to have power, to telephone, water. 2016 for you serious and modern is the people looking in the trash to win the bosses you serve. For you serious and modern is to sleep the people on the street, not to be able to take the drugs, to restore their health. For you, serious and modern is the people living at 300 euros, when in half-help, when in unemployment, stop dreaming, planning, having expectations. For you above all are the business groups, banks, their interests. This barbarity with all the misfortune it brings to the people you defend. Some defend it with a greater passion, such as the provocative speaker of the River and the Centron Union, who are pulling out sorrows, react, rustle, when you put a topic of support for the workers and the people. Our proposal covers the majority of the people who are suffering, whose position has deteriorated by monopolies, business groups, by those who have the keys to the economy, by real power. The proposal tells us to pay those responsible for the life of the people's family. This creates your reaction. You see our proposal as a red cloth. It touches on the sacrosancts and loyalties of the capitalists you support, who live at the expense of the majority of the people, who pluck the wealth they produce. In order to be effective, this must also be accompanied by anti-CEEC war. Because only the JRC has a proposal to liberate the people from the bonds of capitalist exploitation. Because only the JRC is in front of the struggle to satisfy the people's needs. We, yes, have another proposal for the organization of the economy, which will be made by the power of the working class and their allies. Economics that are the main criterion of its development will be to satisfy the increasing needs of the people and not the profits of monopolistic and business groups. You defend them. The industrialists, the shipowners, the hotel owners, the big dealers. We defend all those affected by their own sovereignty. The workers, the unemployed, the self-employed, the farmers, the farmers, the fishermen. Our proposal, as we have said, is tabled to all the people's organisations, the self-employed and the rest of the populace. We call on them to draw the conclusions from the attitude of the other parties and to directly claim - through a strong movement which they themselves must help to create - the measures from the burden relief, which loaded them with big capital and political staff. In this race, the JRC will be in the front.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. The debate on the principle, articles and all of the proposal for a law of jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism is closed: "Measures to relieve the people's family". The proposal for a law will not be put to the vote because it falls within the scope of Article 73(3) of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u129	Something we disagree with. We've said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u130	At this point we will be adjourning the sitting for a few minutes and coming back with the topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We begin with the third with number 1094-5-7-2016.Gold Dawn Mr.Ioannis Lagos, the Minister of Finance, on the financing from Turkey through the Consulate of Komotini for the purchase of properties of despaired Greeks in Thrace. Mr. Rabbit has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u132	Thank you. Minister, we are dealing here with a very important issue, in our view, in terms of the Golden Dawn. There is the question of the Turkish consulate, which operates in a completely unacceptable manner within the Greek territories, in the Greek country. It does things that are forbidden by law to happen and we have been in the process to see that there is a Turkish bank, Ziraat Bank, which is directly fed with money and funded by the Turkish consulate. This results in purchasing land by Greek Christians who live in the region because of their tolerance and crisis. This bank has entered completely illegally, has given low-priced loans from 2008 until today. There is thick money on this process and those Greeks who were unable to repay their loans, this bank does not come to any understanding, it simply takes the land that it had asked for as a basic condition for people to put a mortgage there. Here, therefore, there is a huge problem in which the Greek state and the Greek Government must take a stand. As is also the issue - and we will tell you in the course and then - of the fake noodles that are there, of the various imams, who are the ones taking money - I repeat again - from the Turkish consulate, they do what they want, they are not controlled by the Greek state, they come out enthusiastically and say that these lands are Turkish soils and the Greek state with its silence and with its tolerance, it shows that they recognize what they say. So Greece must protect the local residents we have there. We have a specific incident. I can tell you the name of the family, which is in a Pomakohori named Mishchos in the Iasmos region. It was the only Greek family, and a few years ago these people wanted to sell their home and give it a certain amount. The evidence is there, and I can give it to you whenever you want, not to mention it now. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So the Turkish consulate went after a few days and gave them twice as much money to get these people out of there. And in honor of them, the people refused, kept their property and are still in this village. It's the only Christian family that's there. However, the Greek state does nothing to them all. And how many others can resist what's happening. I repeat again that this is a very serious matter. This bank, Ziraat Bank, must stress that it only operates in the region of Thrace and the Dodecanese, and that is no accident, but it is because Ankara, at times, has said that there are Turkish minorities in these two regions. The fact that they mention Turkish minorities is unacceptable to hear and accept it. So it has gone there, it has mortgaged huge areas of Greek land and then taken them - because people can't repay them now - and without any more settlement they actually go to Turkish ownership. That's the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u133	Good. You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u134	This is the process and you must answer what you are going to do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u135	Mr Alexiadis has the floor. Please keep time. Please, Mr Alexiadis, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. There are signs of your question, Mr Papoutsis, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Development. It is not my competence and I cannot answer you on all matters. As far as the issue of taxation is concerned, which is why I can answer you here - I can tell you clearly that there is neither discrimination nor asylum to anyone depending on their religious or other views. There's no asylum for the Treasury. All taxpayers, for us, have the same charges and rights. So any Greek taxpayer who purchases any assets should be able to justify this purchase on the basis of his tax statement. And I say it here in public because I have nothing to hide or I'm afraid of. If there is any complaint or reference to any taxpayer, that he has purchased assets, which he has not made in his tax declaration - because if he shows them in his tax declaration, he will immediately ask for the "underlying" of these assets - the competent authorities will examine them immediately. We have no desire to cover or to please anyone. Tax laws are very clear and apply to everyone without exception.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u137	Thank you. Mr. Rabbit has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u138	I asked you to mention - and I specifically referred to it - the Ziraat Bank, which operates completely autonomously and I will tell you other cases that exist. First of all, we refer to the pseudos of the area, where a documentary, now on the surface, says that there is a receipt, issued on September 2, 2014, after the performance of a fundraising fund, held in Pachni village. This evidence has been cut in the name of the former director of the Komotini Priestry, Sampri Bosnak, while the money in the psalmist of Xanthi, according to the document, was delivered by the daughter of former director Nousseyba Bosnac. This money, according to the evidence, is reported to be the sum of 1,500. These funds have not been audited, these documents and proofs have not been audited either by the tax office or by the Greek State. The specific lady, however, says: "In this action we did in Pachni, 21,830 euros were raised. Other donations were added to them and the total amount was EUR 22,580, which was granted." The money that these people collect in there is controlled? The processes these people are doing there are controlled? The falsifier with the fakes who are there, the lessons they deliver to kindergartens, which should not work - why are they completely acting illegally like Turkish kindergartens - controlled? These people get double wages. They take from the Turkish consulate and take the money they collect there from the residents. Are these people under control? Apparently, no. And that's what you need to look at. And it is no coincidence that after questions from the Golden Dawn, these two specific kindergartens, which operated illegally in the area of Komotini, closed down, put a padlock. And the Golden Dawn gives her word that she will try to lock up the Turkish consulate when the power is given to her, because what she does is not done on the basis of the agreements that exist between states, but are completely autonomous and uncontrollable. I will also mention another incident, because there is a specific one - I will not mention their name here again, I have to give you the figures - a Muslim who defines himself as a Turkish in the region, a Turkish farmer, who in the last five years has bought a thousand acres of land. In fact, the Greeks over there were selling them to 1,000, 1,500 euros the acre and he's gone and buying them with 2,500 euros. This man has been checked? How could he make these markets? How does he justify his money? And when for each Greek there are thorough checks that do not allow him to justify 10 euros, which he cannot justify - and it is well done - how can some farmers who say, who are only farmers, who are not, buy our Greek lands? These things we need to take care of. I would also like to say here that there is a scandal with Ziraat Bank, because there is a government law, Law No.3978/2011, which regulates the sensitive issue regarding the designation of border areas and says that there is no bank there, especially if it is not Greek, to put a mortgage on land. Ziraat Bank, however, trespasses this and trespasses it on a law-based loophole, which your Government must abolish and says that in a strange way, however, the rulers have introduced in Article 114 and a second paragraph with a presidential decree that states that the term "forbid" can be lifted in some of the areas mentioned above. This is a scandal. While the law says they can't do this, we've left a little window and we're just excused the Turkish bank that's directly controlled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u139	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u140	Allow me, Mr President. We allow the Turkish bank, which operates through the Turkish consulate, to buy the Greek territory. And when Muslims up there once become a majority at this birth rate and when these people say they are Turks - many of them - and their Greek state tolerates them, this is a major issue. So tell me why it is about the economic issue that I have told you about the scandals of the falseman in the region, about the Ziraat bank scandals, how do you intend to react? And I repeat that there must also be a thorough investigation into the submarines in the area, so that we can have a full picture of what is happening, what belongs where. In Thrace everything has been sold out. Golden Dawn won't allow it. We will do everything possible and we hope that you will have a good mood in order to resolve this huge issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u141	Mr Alexiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u142	I also said in my first speech - and I will repeat - that parts of your question concern other ministries. The issues of religious leadership in the region and the issues of banking control are not my responsibility, I cannot answer all the issues. As far as the issues of the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance are concerned, all legal persons of a non-profit character have an obligation to make tax declarations, as are the specific ones you have said. They have an obligation to declare their income and if that legal person had revenues and has not declared them, he has also committed a tax breach, among others. I am therefore waiting for the specific complaints or specific references, to give them to us and to make sure that they will be forwarded to the relevant departments on the same day and that they will be checked. I say it for a millennial time: we are not in the mood to cover anyone. We don't depend on anyone. Anyone who's committed a breach will be controlled. On the issue of the market, anyone who buys anything in Greece, if he declares it in his tax declaration, should automatically justify the amount of the market. There is a chance that someone will make a purchase and not declare it in his tax declaration. We have such phenomena that are on the way with other checks that we do. If there are complaints of this kind, the complaints to the Ministry will come and I assure you that we will investigate them in detail. As far as the issues of the land market are concerned, and who has what, the cross-checking of the register, that is, what is done with the recording of the data assets with the E9 elements of the Ministry of Finance, is within the obligations we have by Law No.4336/2015, so one cannot say that he owns a property in a region without having declared it in his tax declarations. So, as far as tax matters are concerned, which you have raised in your question and which is my responsibility, I tell you that we are not giving anyone a credit. We will check and inform you of whatever information you bring us and under no circumstances will we blame nor favour anyone we want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u143	We continue with the fifth under No 1110/11-7-2016 topical question of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Finance concerning the problems of the redundant workers of the Union of Agricultural Cooperatives (ESA) Larissa. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. The question we raise with this question is the problems of the fired workers of the Larissa Association of Agricultural Cooperatives, which arose after their dismissal - they are already in the fourth year of dismissal - after the closure of the Larissa S.A... Of course, workers have not been compensated, not the largest amount paid, which corresponds to accruals, but also to their redundancy payments. One further problem that has arisen is that the Greek State, the government by extension, rather than interfere with the speeding-up of the process of repayment of the proceeds due - whether renting is or selling the assets of the former NCA - blocked the liquidation account to the National Bank, so that the redundant, whatever they may get in, cannot afford. Of course, the situation is intensified. We all understand it - and you, Mr President, Minister - that after three years of unemployment, even this sum of compensation and remuneration, which has not been collected, is a serious issue for the workers themselves, who are now unemployed. The question, therefore, to the government and the Minister is whether and when - we say immediately - the liquidation account will be unlocked to the National Bank by the Greek State, to give absolute priority to the payment of the amount due and compensation to the redundant workers and to speed up the winding-up process and the auctioning of its assets. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, politically, the answer to all these questions was given by the relevant Minister at a gathering in Larissa, which has been made known for the graphics of some people and not for its masses and contents. I did not know that the Minister responsible would be here, so I will answer the tax issues and other issues. Because, as you can see, there are issues that are not of the Ministry of Finance. However, I shall also submit relevant documents to you in the Minutes, so that you can have a full briefing. With regard to the issues raised by your question, on a serious issue, which employs workers with huge debts, the Ministry of Rural Development informs us that NSA Larissa has been in a process of resolution and liquidation since November 2012. As the OAED informs us, the employees of this company have submitted applications for the payment of unpaid remuneration due to insolvency, which have been rejected and which tells the opinions, etc. The liquidation of Larissa in Agia does not, therefore, fall within the scope of insolvency in the specific sense and cannot be paid to employees in that company without remuneration due to the employer's insolvency, according to the caselaw of the Court of Justice, as is the case with regard to payment from that source. As the Ministry of Labour informs us about the same issue, the total debts, identified by the Ministry of Labour, are at 1.226,418.000, a huge amount and, unfortunately, as the Ministry itself says, the liquidation process is progressing slowly, due to the strike of lawyers, while the account in question, in which the money is credited by the sale of the assets, has been committed to public debts. Finally, as far as the Ministry of Finance is concerned, all these documents will be submitted to you and will be provided with information - as the Ministry of Finance informs you - on his own competence - on the debts, that is, on the question of cancellation and cancellation or not of the particular confiscation made by the Ministry of Finance, once again, the court, which has dealt with the case as a result of the existing case. Because the case has been referred to the Administrative Court of Larissa and has so far not been brought before the Court of First Instance. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Trif Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In short - because I have told you all about all the data and submitted to you the relevant documents on the case - it is an issue that we are following. It does not depend on the government at 100%, because it is both inside and justice and other situations, which have to run faster. There's really a long delay, as the Ministry of Labour says. It is a social problem, for which we are trying in the existing legal framework to press for it to be resolved as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. I listened carefully, Minister. Now, whether Mr Apostlelos went to Larissa or where he wishes to go, to prophesy and, of course, to present the Government's view of the policy that he is going to pursue next time in the agricultural sector, is his right and he is not speaking to me, to say so. Politics, of course, I will judge him. And Mr. Apostle and you and the government, based on your policies. Now look at the matter. It's a hundred forty-four employees. I'm talking about S.H.I.E.L.D. Larissa. On the basis of the clearings made throughout the country, on the occasion of the last law passed for the creation of new associations, from previous associations and on the basis of clearings of about five thousand, as the workers themselves estimate, more than five thousand will be out. We have specific proposals. Of course, if you say to me that you are unresponsible for a large or small part of the question or topic, I beg your pardon very much, but that the Ministry, with its services, could have given an answer. We have tabled a simple question and we have waited for an answer within the time allowed. We didn't get any answers, nor anything that would even refer us to another ministry. We have waited longer than expected, and we have had to table the question as timely, so that you can come to the House and discuss it. So to solve any misunderstanding, it is not our fault. They must also be seen by the ministries. I now come to the point. We're talking about a hundred forty-four employees of Larissa. They owe them five million gains and compensations. They have taken over the last three years every six months from 300 to 500, then go to the best case of 600 euros and you understand that most of the debtors have not taken it. And here, of course, the government should, if necessary with legislative intervention, go ahead to resolve these issues, because it is not just that number, but I mention it, since we are talking about this issue in Larissa. And we say: if legislation is needed, take the initiative in the direction of completing the winding-up process in a short time and not in a timely manner, because there is no time-limit for liquidation today. To give workers priority to classifying the debtors against all, so that they can obtain a clearing product and do not have a opposition problem, as is currently the case with the State. That's what happened. For example, the issue of the prospect of these people. I told you the number, as about the same thing. They are fifty - plus, except - years old. What will happen to them? [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] We have a specific proposal. We say that these workers should be recruited in the new patterns to be created in the new associations. They have experience and know-how, if you like, of space and object. Of course, I should like to say here that in this proposal I make with the last law they are not given the opportunity to improve it. Isn't that right, Mr. Apostle? They have no opportunity to absorb these workers from the new agricultural cooperatives, based on the last law. But we do. I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you would like to take this opportunity to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, to Also, these workers are entitled to secondment to other services. Why is that not possible? In services such as OPEKEPE, municipalities, regions, ELGA, OGA and so on, all of this is in relation to the subject they have had so far to cover the huge gaps. See what's going on in ELGA, not to say about other services. And, of course, provision should be made, if you like, to have the right for the employees of the NCA who are cleared of auctions throughout the real estate of the former NCAs to the height of...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u149	The Minister must answer, Mr. Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u150	...the first to take the money. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u152	You could blame this government for too many mistakes, delays, omissions, say what you want, but what this propaganda government does when we have the worst propaganda that has ever been in government since 1974, falsifying and misinforming specific media in what we do, that we cannot accept.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u153	Are you addressing us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u154	You said something about propaganda. That we had the propaganda gathering. We don't do it for propaganda, we do it...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u155	Is that what I said?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u156	I didn't say you'd do propaganda.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u157	I said to promote the government's positions. That's what I said. That's not bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u158	We are not practicing the positions of the government, Your Honour. What we are doing - with respect for the different viewpoint, listen to our opinion - is to try democratically to inform the citizens of what happened. We are not trying to propaganda or misinformation, precisely because there is a propaganda and misinformation front on the other hand and at some point as a party you must take a position on this issue, but this is another debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u159	So propaganda is a bad word for you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u160	To come to the subject of this question. Specific things. In relation to liquidation, we agree - the Ministry of Labour itself says so, we do not hide - that it is going too late and has to go faster. Of course, we will press for more rapid liquidation to resolve this issue. That's the one. Second one. In the case of the court we cannot interfere with justice, you know that very well. The Association of Agricultural Cooperatives in Justice has brought proceedings, the single administrative court has rejected the request and the case is pending before the Administrative Court of Larissa. So there is nothing else we can do and I have brought you the answer from the OAS, which answers the specific question I raised. So given the institutional framework that exists at the moment, is there no possibility of bringing an amendment and saying what? Do we make the liquidation in a month or bring an amendment and say that this court will decide otherwise? I told you before - the most competent Minister from me, Mr Apostleo, hears that we are trying on this issue and we will soon have a concrete solution. We have also given this solution to the contacts we had with the farmers in order to deal with the problem. We're not saying it's okay. We are trying to achieve this through the institutional framework.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u161	For the rest, Minister, where did I put you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u162	Thank you. The sixth question will be discussed under number 1108/11-7-2016, first question by the Member of Parliament for the Flashing of the Independent Greeks Mr. Vassilis Kokalis - known for handling the time - to the Minister for Finance, on how to calculate the single property tax (ENPIA). Mr. Red has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u163	In Greece we should speak less, Mr President, and work more. I'm getting to the point. Minister, almost all Greeks ask and are concerned by ENPIA. The intention of this government is to rationalise itself. Recently the parcels are also required by HISPIA. Simple question and clear question. How will ENVIA be calculated, value? Based on what year? Based on what objective value? 2010 or 2015? In view of the fact that there is also the relevant decision of the Council of State, which considered that the State had failed to fulfil its obligations and made the public deadline for six months for reforming the values available to the public. My question is clear. Will the value of ENVIRONMENT be based on what years? Two. Is it in your intention - I do not know if it is your responsibility - to exempt VAT for small businesses with a turnover of up to EUR 15-20,000? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, too. You confirmed your reputation. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. You have rightly pointed out that we must speak less and work more. But in order for us ministers to be able to do more work, we need to be helped by parliamentary work. I came to answer four questions today, and we have another three tomorrow, and we need to prepare ourselves for the bill that we have in committee. I've been here three times today, because I was told at 12 noon, then at 13 noon, and we started now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u166	You're the most consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u167	The result is finally punishable and we need to rethink our position. As far as the specific points you have said are concerned, on both issues. First of all, in relation to the ENPIA. Is there a reasonable citizen in this country who would say that parcels as an asset should be excluded from HISA? Farms are land outside of plan, let's call it that. For agricultural parcels are in a tourist area, the "fileto" which is on a beach. It is also a piece of land, in the sense that you know better than I do from law. I'm an economist. It was not subject to the HPAI for natural persons while it was subject to legal persons. This issue has now been resolved by the ENPIA and the parcels. I think every reasonable person in this thing will agree. With regard to all this fuss and the stirring up, as to how HIS will be calculated or the additional tax on agricultural parcels, there is no problem. It's planned. It's exactly what the law describes. I will present to you here the relevant document from the Directorate-General for Tax Administration of the competent authority of the Capital Taxation Application, where they confirm that everything has been done and therefore how the value of agricultural parcels is clearly defined by law and there is no question of any legislative gap. I would also remind you that in the corresponding debate Mr Juliarakis, who is responsible for the General Accounting Office, has even identified the number. He said about six million taxpayers would have him, just a little further down, HISPIA. So there will be no difference in the ENPIA for six million taxpayers. For six hundred thousands of taxpayers who have the great and the very great fortune, of course we will have more HISPIA. Some people disagree on that. What can we do? Everyone has their political views and social references. So, as far as I am concerned, this is what this is all about. As far as VAT is concerned. There is a specific exemption on VAT, which is provided for and I will give you the relevant documents, for a turnover of up to EUR 10 000, excluding VAT. There is no regulation at the moment to raise this EUR 10,000 limit. Of course, with the changes we have in budgetary figures and with the course of implementation of the budget, this will be reviewed. But at the moment some legislation is being promoted on this issue. Furthermore, I would remind you that this is provided for by a 2006 directive setting the relevant ceiling for Greece and to change that, it is a precondition for the European Commission to approve the relevant request of our country. So for one thing, and for the other, I answered you. In summary, the ENPI is normally making progress on the parcels and on the subject of VAT 10,000 are currently in force. We will look into it by changing all the budgetary figures in the country. But we do not have any legislation now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u168	It's good to be on a beach or sea. What if he's in a pond with reeds? Mr. Cocksucker has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u169	I would like to make a clarification. It was not just a question of parcels. You said that right. But what about urban property in terms of how to calculate, objective value, old objective or new objective? That's the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u170	That's very specific. Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u171	I will respond, but first of all, to say about the lakes, because there are prefectures with many lakes in Greece and we must respect that. When you have a field near a place where it is with reeds and near a lake, its value is small. So you don't have a big problem, because you're going to pay a little extra tax on it. As far as the issue of objective values is concerned, this has been clearly provided for in the law. There is no problem with objective values. They won't be wronged by the citizens. They are objective values that are not close to trade, because, unfortunately, we do not yet have that. We hope to have it in 2017. But they are objective values which are close and certainly even below commercial values. In some areas of the country, such as tourist areas, for example, the objective values on the basis of which HIS will be calculated are lower than the real commercial value of the property. But we couldn't do anything different. We haven't had time for anything else this year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u172	The seventh question, under number 1104/8-7-2016, will be discussed in the Seventh Circuit No 1104/8-7-2016, the first question of the Athens Deputy of the Union of Centres Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the need to remove the seizures of the bank accounts of the company "NVE SA". (Eleucina Shipyard).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u173	First of all, you will allow me, Mr President, to note that Mr Alexiades is one of the most contributors to parliamentary scrutiny.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u174	There's no doubt about that, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u175	But Parliament's control is also required.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u176	Along with Mr. Apostle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u177	Sure. So I'm on my way. The issue of the shipyard industry in Greece is well known. It has been attempted in recent years to rescue themselves through armaments programs. They ended up where they ended up. It's not the subject of my question. The subject of my question now is that the Greek state has finally come to strengthen the shipyards and Scaramaga, but our point is Elefsinas shipyards today, by entrusting the completion of equipment projects, which had a bad luck. So there is a recent law by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and it makes a tripartite contract between the Navy, the shipyard company and the staff, which says that the two torpedoes of the Navy, which have been left there, should be completed, in order to make it possible for the public at some point, to secure the money that has been spent so far, but also to secure the work of the staff and the status of the shipyards itself, since even the Prime Minister rushed to China to raise the issue of shipyards. So, the General Secretariat of Public Revenue comes the day before yesterday to impose a confiscation on the Bank Accounts of the Elefsinos Shipyard Company. It's getting public. The GFCM intervenes and says that the jobs of some six hundred and fifty workers in the shipyards are at risk of the completion of the two torpedoes. They need to modernise the older ones and replace them. This action, according to our employees, was not justified by the government, because the company's debt as posted on the website of the Ministry of Finance of the General Secretariat is EUR 4.30,000 with a contribution of approximately EUR 1.50,000, which means that the company's requirements for completion are much greater. So why is it interrupting the bank accounts? I would remind you, Mr Alexiadis, that it is under the CEN as a confiscation in the hands of third parties. You know that better than I do. It is, therefore, interrupting the possibility of paying workers' wages, causing inability to supply materials for the shipyard and cancelling all efforts. I would therefore ask the Minister to tell us what the actual amount of debt is, the reasons for the debts, what measures the government intends to take, so that the confiscation can be lifted and work continued for two public purposes, to secure the positions and to complete the national defence armaments programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u178	Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, your legal knowledge is well known. So I, as an economist, will not hand over to you legal class. First of all, let me make it clear to you: you know very well that on the basis of tax confidentiality, we are unable to answer the first part of your question about the amount of debts. We do not have the possibility, in other words, of developing this issue as a result of tax confidentiality. Secondly, you did well to refer to the Public Income Tax Code. It's a law since 1974, because lately some people have been trying to get him to Alexiadis. Because it's the fault of Alexiadis. It's even about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u180	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u181	I was in the second grade of high school in 1974, I wasn't in a ministry so I could do that kind of thing. In any event, as far as this shipyard and the whole problem was concerned, Mr.4361/2016 provided for the possibility of not confiscation, not in general and vaguely for everything. It provided that they were not accelerated and suspended etc., referring to the CED, solely to the property at the expense of the movable and immovable property of the legal person under the name "NVE S.A." solely to the extent that the movable and immovable property affects the completion of the construction of the TIC warships under number 6 and 7 of the Hellenic Navy and for as long as this lasts. So it wasn't the particular law. In general, it did not provide such a possibility for the undertaking concerned. He was only giving for the specific money that was involved in the construction of the Navy ships. In other words, it was not entirely suspended to take any necessary measures against the company's assets, but only those which hamper the construction of the ships concerned, and therefore the tax administration does not have the power to judge what the company's non-confidential assets are in order to exclude them from the confiscation each time. In this whole process - the Minister responsible, Mr Vitsas - is here - perhaps miserable actions and situations that have run faster than the normal or notable interpretations. We should see these things as public administration - I, first of all, have a responsibility, I do not throw it elsewhere - with a different eye and see that behind these figures, people, situations, families and all these issues and, of course, national issues, such as building warships. Those mistakes were made. These problems have been created. The company also had to work differently, inform which accounts are for this, who are for the rest. What we want to say is that, in general and vaguely, this company doesn't have one. He only has those bills. We need to resolve these issues through this particular procedure. There is now cooperation between the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry, which is Mr Vitsas here, the National Defence and the Ministry of Finance in order to solve this problem - as it has been resolved - and not to be created again and not to have it in front of us and to proceed smoothly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister's answer is interesting. It's confessed. I shall say, then, historically, that the CEDEFOP is the law of the dictatorship, it is Mr. 357/1974, Mr. Alexiadis. So let it be abolished after he survives. On the more specific issue, I will agree in part. Indeed, the law does not specify which is the apportionment or the irresponsible assets. It shall specify only the party involved in the implementation of the Navy program. But there is one issue here, since the law was unclear and did not clarify. We cannot charge it to the company, as the Minister says, because the Ministry of Finance is immediately in charge of the Ministry of Finance - public administration is responsible - and the shipyard is the Hellenic Navy, the public service. Therefore, in this sense, if we stand by the law, it says 'every movable or immovable property that affects the completion of the construction programme'. It should therefore also be the Ministry of Finance - I would insist on this point - to classify what work is being done, what the costs are for the shipyard, for the construction and what commercial, general and commercial operations are. Why are we here today? We have arrived because 30% of the wages, of the employees' wages, has done so under the contract - Mr Vitsas knows - that the Navy pays it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Carra...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u185	The shipyard and 70% public. I know, Mr. Vitsa, there's no doubt about it. This 30%, Mr President, I have to say that it concerns a greater part of the issue. The convention ratified by Parliament in spring - they had a year to pay for these people - predicted that the shipyard workers will also get the land workers from the Navy payments through the company. So that was interrupted right now. Furthermore, I would like to make a proposal to Mr Alexiadis and Mr Vitsa - who is present and I am pleased about that - because I know that he will answer the question of my colleague, Mr Saridis. Mr Alexiadis and Mr Vitsa, there is a sum here of 40 million, you know that sum, which will be given - if I understand the contract - after it has been completed and certified. They will be progressively, but in the end they will not be repaid unless the torpedoes are delivered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u186	He'll be paid back then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u187	So when they surrender. Forgive me, I'll finish, and then you'll tell me. I read here that, for the implementation of the programme, there will be additional support with the sum of EUR 40 million. Is that inaccurate or is that accurate? So this amount, which, even gradually, will be attributed, would not have ensured the requirements of the Ministry of Finance, if there had been a separation between the funds, which is part of the irresponsible and which fall within the obligations other than the shipyard company's contract, and we would have no problem with workers today? I'm telling you, I'm telling you, from the GFCM announcement. We have been contacted by the GFCM and we have been told that there is a problem not only of workers but also of a more general problem. So I asked the question and I would ask Mr Alexiades, in particular with his experience in financial administration, to seek a solution. To remove the commitments of the bank accounts, because this company seems to have no separate accounts. He can do it deliberately, Minister. I don't want to acquit anyone. A solution needs to be found to ensure that the whole, seventy-thirty-thirty-thirty-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-nan-three-nan-three-nan-three-nan-three-nan-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-nan-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-nan-nan-three-three-three-three-e-e-n-n-n-n-n, the-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-three-three-three-n-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u189	MEP, if we opened the shipyard issue in Greece, we should have a discussion here in the days and it would be good if they were present and the protagonists who led the country to these adventures, because some of these protagonists are here and they still squeeze our fingers and accuse us of so many things, while all this history has names and addresses. With regard to the specific question you have asked, the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, which was responsible for these matters, is an independent secretariat and from 1-1-2017 it will be completely independent. That is what the Greek Parliament has voted on, and that is how we have to work. I've been informed about the whole thing online. I don't have any competence. I have not been asked, nor is there an obligation on the services, who have done their job very well at service level. Now whether or not a document had to be drawn up above, if there had to be a more understanding, if all this had to be done, then we would have to discuss it. There is no possibility that the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance, none of our three ministers, should intervene or even be informed before this is done. This thing is done automatically. From now on, we've all become wiser. There will be better understanding, better coordination, so that no money is committed, which is in the specific law of 2016, because for the rest of the money, of course, there will be commitments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u190	We thank Mr Alexiadis for his presence. The first question under number 1107/11-7-2016 will be discussed with the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the intentions of the Ministry for the delegation of the role of the competent authority for measuring the quality characteristics of cloning cannabis fibres, at the National Centre for Quality Control of cotton. Mrs. Katsavria, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the introduction of the culture of cloning cannabis in Greece by signing the KYA with FEK 929/6-4-2016 as a new reliable and profitable alternative crop, may be a new perspective for Greek agriculture. This product of industrial cannabis is commonly accepted to be harmless and finds a multitude of industrial applications. It is, on the one hand, a product of which cultivation is relatively easy, as territorial and climatic conditions are favourable and require less water resources and fertilisers than other crops, such as cotton, on the other hand, cannabis could support a chain of activities with obvious positive effects on employment and on the income of farmers who will grow it. I think everyone recognizes that this DHS is the result of a difficult effort on the part of the government to unravel the cloudy landscape around the misunderstood cannabis plant. Quite rightly, Mr Minister, you have defined the institutions and procedures to be followed in order to cultivate the industrial cannabis. You have also rightly defined the Greek agricultural organisation "Dimitra" as the competent body, which will be responsible for the creation of a guide for the cultivation of varieties of industrial cannabis and for the evaluation of varieties of industrial cannabis. You are aware, Minister, that in Carditsa the National Centre for Quality Control of cotton, which is part of the ELGO "DIMITRA" and this centre is accredited by the ESRB and is working with sufficient and successful in assessing the production and quality of cotton. The National Cotton Centre, I believe, is the only body that has the infrastructure, know-how and executives to do the same with the cloning cannabis. So I ask you if you intend to take advantage of the National Centre for Quality Control of Cocoa and to assign it further to the role of the competent authority for the cloning of hemp. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u192	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u193	Madam President, thank you for the question, because you are touching a piece on the cultivation of cloning cannabis, which is quite serious and which is the control and measurement of the quality characteristics of its fibres. It is an issue that we have not approached yet. We'll decide. However, I thank you very much, because the question enables me to inform the rural area of the progress that has been made so far by the attempt to introduce the cultivation of cloning hemp on the agricultural land. First of all, this was our obligation, because with Law 1307/2013 the Union law that brought about the cultivation of this variety had been incorporated into national legislation. It's true we're late. Our country has been delayed and, in particular, we did not make any progress in the growing season in all parts of the country, so that not only the necessary information is available to farmers, but above all in many areas, although others also wanted to get in, they did not catch up, because the growing season was already coming to an end and could not respond. So, despite the positive response that has been made to this particular effort, the land that has been cultivated was not what we, at least, wanted. The figures show that in four regional sections farmers responded. We're talking about Aetolokarnania, Evia, Boeotia and Chania. The start has been made, but we too believe that there will be multiplication next year and, above all, because the first steps show that cultivation is going very well. So until then, we have to answer the many questions that exist. One of the questions is what you put, which concerns measuring the quality characteristics of fibres. There's more. There are questions, which are related to the control, about the storage of the harvest. What I want to say to you is that we will consider the assignment of the work you ask the National Quality Control Centre for cotton, based in Karditsa. More, of course, I will tell you in my dentistry about how to approach this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u194	Please, Mr. Katsavria, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Minister, for the answer that meets the need to encourage the cultivation of cloning hemp. Such an approach will perhaps pave the way for rural development, by turning to production of other agricultural products that will benefit farmers and respect the environment. The development and strengthening of the National Centre for Quality Control of Carditsa is of primary importance for the rational and effective introduction of the culture of cloning cannabis. I would remind you that the centre is accredited by the ESS with ISO 17025 to measure the quality characteristics of cotton fibres and is one of the few laboratories that have this accreditation. In addition, a foreign material analysis apparatus on cotton and other fibres, a laboratory analysis system for fibre fractions and their derivatives with a picture recording and reproduction machine and a microscope projection with a high resolution digital camera is also available at the centre. The Centre generally provides substantial information, scientifically documented, both in your Ministry and in the cotton growers. You will remember, I imagine, and our interesting debate about the centre in another timely question about cotton and the National Cotton Centre. ELGO "DIMITRA" has shown great interest, as well as high-ranking players of the political leadership and services of the Ministry of Rural Development recently visited on your command - and we thank you for that - the National Centre for cotton, who expressed their satisfaction with the excellent way in which it operates and showed an interest in meeting its needs and fully exploiting and joining the process of the productive reconstruction of agriculture in our country. According to the information available to me, Minister, I believe that it is necessary to make use of this centre in order to respond effectively to the growing of cloning cannabis. Firstly, to complete its equipment to measure the quality of cannabis fibre; secondly, to recruit three specialist scientists; and thirdly, to ensure the necessary resources for research and for the implementation of experimental cannabis production programmes in order to reach safe conclusions on the further development of cultivation in the country. Minister, I would like to believe that you will assign the National Cotton Centre and the role of support for the cultivation of cloning cannabis and that, at the same time, you will ensure the necessary conditions that I have described above for its strengthening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u196	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u197	Dear colleague, I won't commission you. A competent authority is ELGO "DIMITRA" who, of course, knows that all these conditions you mentioned exist in terms of the Greek Cotton Centre, as well as we all know that these conditions need to be met, with what you mentioned in terms of equipment, staff and resources needed. All this will be assessed by the ELGO 'DIMITRA', which, as a competent authority, has the right, and I mean that it is not mandatory neither to Union nor national legislation, to proceed with the assignment of this work. We believe that the National Centre for Quality Control of Cotton has these conditions, but the ELGO "DIMITRA" will see the whole matter more comprehensively and will be the one that will actually answer. Our position, as I told you, is specific. From there on I can't tell you today, I can tie it up 100% that the Greek Cotton Center begins this process tomorrow. We'll see. We have time in front of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u198	Thank you. It is known in this House that the sixth question, number 1109/11-7-2016, a topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks, George Lazarides, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the amendment of the legislation on provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure, will not be discussed. Competent Ministry is the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights. Also, we will not discuss the fifteenth under number 914/27-5-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the creation of illegal kindergartens and boardrooms in Xanthi. There will still not be a debate on the sixteenth under number 545/15-2-2016 topical question of the second Athens Parliamentary of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Minister of Health, on the problems of operation in the EKA. The eighth question will be discussed under number 1069/28-6-2016 in the context of a topical question by Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Rural Development and Food on the inaccurate remote sensation of land leading to an unprecedented economic dead end for cotton growers. Mr. Micho, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the inaccurate satellite remote sensing of these crops has led cotton growers to economic stagnation. The insufficient uniform support of OPECE, the continuing postponements to its repayment - more than 45% of the beneficiaries - and the matching of real areas with satellite displays - are factors for the suspension of the agricultural activities of cotton growers, while depriving them of the necessary resources to meet the needs of sowing. The related aid is not paid because satellite displays have included geographical peculiarities at the expense of the declared areas, while remote sensing has been carried out in an inappropriate period, which is not an indication of the quantity of real land. I'm asking you. Will you directly assess the objections raised to the competent OPEKEPE services in order to restore the inaccuracies of the telex, which have a huge economic impact on cotton growers? And secondly, when will the necessary subsidies be paid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u200	So do we. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, the method of remote sensing control is an acceptable and reliable scientific method for the identification and measurement of crops and is essentially equivalent to an on-the-spot check. It applies to all countries of the European Union. I must also inform you that the verification checks carried out to verify the eligibility conditions of the basic payment using the remote sensing method are 5%. That is what European legislation stipulates. In other words, only a 5% of all producers are controlled. These checks are also carried out on the basis of specific standards and directives of the European Commission. As far as the effectiveness of the method is concerned, one can easily see it through the findings of monitoring all the European Union's mechanisms, which control both OPEKEPE and the Greek authorities every year. Let me tell you - and you know - that especially last year, in 2015, it was the year in which the audit did not bring a fine of EUR 1, which was done by the coral over the past few years. What I want to say to you is that the objections that have been raised are currently in the process of scrutiny. But in general for the related cotton aid, already in my presence in Larissa yesterday, it was announced that all payments will be made by the end of July 2015. Those objections are accepted through the same procedure - it has not been completed, which is why we have not made the payments in question, but sooner tomorrow, they will be completed - they will also be paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u202	Mr. Michos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u203	Thank you. I hope the farmers will get their subsidies, their subsidies. But I would like to ask this: how did they receive aid for specific acres and this year? Secondly, why did the remote sensing not take place at the appropriate time and now? Besides, you know that Greek cotton is one of the best in the world. These producers must be helped by the Greek state. We have too much - let us say - complaints about northern Greece, mainly in the Prefectures of Xanthi and Komotini. This data came from there and of course from farmers in the rest of Greece. There is no question of the Turkish-minded Thrace who take their backs at the time that the Greeks should and do not take. So we must first of all look at the people of this country who love their homeland. Farmers are the last producers in our country. They're keeping the Thermopylae. There is no other productive sector at this time except for farmers and farmers. Do something to help these people get the aid in time, because as you know, when the farmer and the farmer get the aid when they have to, they will also be able to cope with the obligations. I'm not going to start talking about the taxes and all the other taxes that your government has put in. At least help them. Give them the backup. You know very well, what work it means in the field. You know very well, what a disaster will mean by weather. You know very well that most farmers right now have no fate in the sun. So help them to keep their properties and produce them, because they are the last - I say again - who are currently producing our homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u204	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u205	Over the past few years have nothing to do with the first year of implementation of a new CAP. We are talking about the 2014-2020 CAP, which has completely changed the data on the basis of which the allocations of rights and payments are allocated. The rural world has been informed that payments will be made this year by 15 October 2016, which means that the Commissioner responsible has recognised - and indeed is the case - that many countries - not Greece - are the ones that have not yet completed the payments in question, because the implementation of the new CAP creates many difficulties. There are too many problems. Let's say, for the first time, marginalization. The first pillar, the second pillar, emerged. In other words, we are talking about the allocation of rights that had to be done from the outset. Of course we have met - particularly other countries, not us - many difficulties. Why would a remote sensation be made this year? Television is a process which is repeated every three years. We had previous geographical data where, for example, they showed the farmer instead of having his pastures, the choices within his law, to be a mile away. From Epirus they went to Crete, or from the Peloponnese they went to Macedonia. That's what we've been through. You can understand that by going beyond this, there have been too many difficulties. But we are from the first countries, which will not make use of the payment entitlement by 15 October. We say that we will try until 15 August - at the latest by the end of August - to complete it. Of course, this means that from next year, we will be entering a period of payments that will not cause problems for farmers, and we all know that, unfortunately, the aid is the only liquidity tool that the rural area has today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u206	We thank Mr Apostleou for answering the current questions. The ninth under number 1084/7-7-2016 topical question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the implementation of collective labour agreements at hotels will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr Katrugalos abroad. The first under number 1106/11-7-2016, a top-level question by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Health, on the creation of new EKAB areas in the wider region of Crete, will not be discussed due to a blockade by Mr. Polakis. Also, the tenth question under number 1080/4-7-2016 by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Health, concerning the staff of the EKAB in Larissa Law and the establishment of EKAB areas in health centres in Larissa, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. Eleventh question under number 1044-27-2016 of the second question of the MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Karayannides to the Minister of Health, concerning the professional and work upgrading of the ‘help nurses’ will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The seventeenth under number 944/3-6-2016 topical question from the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health, concerning patients who operate at their own expense at the University Hospital of Thessaloniki "ACHEPA", will not be discussed due to an obstruction of the Minister. The nineteenth under No 966/7-6-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Health, on the state of Nice, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The 20th under No. 935/31-5-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Health, concerning the shortcomings and problems of the fleet of EKAB, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Finally, the 20th first under number 825/254-2016 topical question of the second Piraeus Parliamentary 2nd cycle of the Union of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economist to the Minister of Health, on the residual functioning of the Anticancer Hospital of Metaxas, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Athanasios Davakis, Member of the Commission. - (EL) Mr. Athanasios Davakis, Member of the Commission, will now be discussing the second question under number 1122/8-7-2016, on the cases of tuberculosis in a refugee hospitality centre in Epirus. Here, Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, a few days ago they saw the light of publicity a number of indications of positive incidents in the examination of a vertebrae for tuberculosis, not cases of tuberculosis, but indications positive to the mantle. Of course, that does not say anything, because many people, many people, may find themselves positive in this parameter. At the same time, from what we have heard, the Health Service, the Department for the Health of the Armed Forces, whose executives from its director to any member of the Health Service, are distinguished for their adequacy, self-sacrifice, training, professionalism. And that, you know, and you - I believe - and I, it creates us a sense of calm. It is a chosen body, the Health Service, especially the Army, as well as all the Armed Forces. However, because many different things are spreading, which I feel have been exploited by various places, I would like to take the opportunity of this question, which I had tabled a few days ago as timely, to clarify the issues - and I believe that, in your presence, they will be clarified - and to create a sense of peace both for the staff and for the people who are hosted in these centres. In any case, there should be that appropriate treatment, so that there is no repetition of cases of diversion, if necessary, and not cases of tuberculosis or repetition of things which all of us are missing, namely the spread of an infectious disease - that is, it or another - which is a possibility in the assembling of so many populations in the centres. And I feel the service is always ready for it. I look forward to your answer with interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u208	Mr. Vitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u209	Mr Davakis, thank you very much for the way in which you have asked your question orally, because that is the main thing, not to cause fear and indeed non-existent. Besides, we're talking two people -- I don't know your professional property, I think you're not a doctor...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u210	I'm a lawyer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u211	We have the same professional status, but we're not doctors. It's important. I, too, have read these publications, which have no basis, precisely because, as you said, a lot of people are coming out of sight. But that doesn't mean she's gonna get sick. I just want to remind you that since 2001, in cooperation with the Armed Forces and CEDEFOP, preventive vaccination has been stopped. Besides, in order not to say anything else, preventive vaccination has been stopped and children throughout Greece. Why, in fact, what happened to us? A refugee who had been hospitalized by tuberculosis in his country came to Greece, did not say it and remained. And there is this process when you come in contact, because it has a low - as does the doctor who went - as a low moderate risk rate. After that, we did the corresponding pneumonology and other tests every 20 years. There were officers or gunmen who came out positive on the guess. Some people have to tell you that in a sense they were excluded because they had vaccinated tuberculosis. So, because it is about eighty in this way, we are completing this process. There's no impact. This is the one and the important one. And I gave you an answer as to how many people have been involved. At the same time, we - as Armed Forces I mean - of the forty-one hospitality centers we have military sanitary forces at thirty. The other eleven are made in other ways, such as by the Ministry of Health, the ‘Doctors without Frontiers’, etc. We keep going, follow up the process and take more and more measures, concerning infectious diseases, and it is about cleanliness, etc. In that sense, we will continue. There is no fear, there is no sense in raising this issue. I think that so far, and at this level, we have done well, because we always have our minds. That's what's important, always keep an eye on us. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Davakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u213	I did not expect a different answer from the Minister, who I believe is following this issue - indeed it is a serious issue - so that it does not leave room for manoeuvre. I would like to close, because there is not much time for this case, to say that the staff of 8 Anne, of this fast-moving border unit, are simply working on the issue of keeping in that particular area in Chepelovo, Ioannina. First, it's off mission. We're talking about it. These people, the military, to whom the fear of any incident is liberated, at some point must be removed from the whole case. One is that. And I think we should at some point begin to see the time when the Armed Forces will be released from the security case, the Health Service of the Armed Prevention Forces, etc. The other issue, Minister - and I think you should see it - is this: in the rest of the refugee camps? Are there any tests? Are the guests being examined? I do not think they should be considered. In other words, all the mechanism in Chepelov came in, which has been the case of the positive, but we must also see what is being done with controls at the other hospitality centres, namely Chios, Mytilini, Samos, Kos. I think that the CERVO, which is the most responsible for this case, should be involved, with the supplementation of the Armed Forces Health Service, as additional. Otherwise what do we do? You realise that the whole question of immigration has been put on the shoulders of the Armed Forces, with everything that can be assimilated. And what each man thinks - whether he is an employee in these areas or a guest - is 'not to happen to us'. Therefore, the lens of the interest of other state structures - such as the CEDEFOP - must be turned on in the other hospitality centres and not on a continuous basis by the Armed Forces to unleash the state's responsibilities on health issues too. You quite rightly said - and I said - that the Health Service of the Land Army did what was assumed to be doing. And that makes us more quiet than anyone. Let the lens of interest turn on the other hospitality centres a little, because there may be another issue or more mature case, which is more signposted in the direction of this disease or another disease, and again start other cases of misinformation or screaming or "they came to us" and something that Mr Kammenos said. We in this Chamber, for two decades, have seen responsibility, seriousness and the avoidance of populism. It may be a flaw in today's political life, but now we cannot change. So I ask a man, whose wisdom I can see, to have in the other reception centres himself, to have identical control and to have interest in other people in the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u215	Mr. Davakis, first of all, I imagine you mean safekeeping. Because the Armed Forces don't keep the hospitality centers. It's police work, civil protection. We, the Armed Forces, have other services to build and operate these centres. Let's do this clean, so we don't have any misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u216	For health services, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u217	I just want to clarify it. Second matter. All centres are making the same effort. And from that moment when we succeeded - I think this is exemplary - to evacuate Idomeni without doing anything, that is world originality. In agreement and cooperation with the Ministry of Health we have also started vaccinations in children in particular, but also in older children. I think it's going very well. And today we had a meeting like this that we put this in. And of course, it is not clear that the 8th Division guards all of Greece. Others are responsible for the Air Force, no matter where the Drought Army is. He doesn't have the Navy here, he's in Shhsto and elsewhere. Also, because you mention it in your question, so far I am saying to OHIM a member's report for refusal of service on the grounds that the hygiene and safety measures are not complied with in the hosting structures where they are involved, it does not exist. I say this to be clear, and in relation to a petition or a post on the continent from the Military Continent, which I think was unfortunate and which we gave to the debate yesterday, a mutual explanation with the respective President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u218	I didn't call...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u219	No, I don't answer you personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Minister. I am aware that the second under number 1103/8-7-2016, a topical question by MP Halkidiki of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Vagionas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the risk of stopping the construction of vital projects in Halkidiki, will not be discussed due to a blockade by Mr. Tsironi. Also, the third, with number 1095/5-7-2016, is the topical question of the second cycle of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the position of Vice President of the Centre for Security Studies, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of Mr. Toska. The fourth question under number 1097/6-7-2016 is the second question of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health on the "no policy in the defence of the health of citizens", and will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Health Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Also, the first with number 5701-27-2016 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the design for the start of the multivalent Iatrician Tymbakis - Heraklion Crete, will not be discussed. Athanasios Papachristopoulos, Member of the Commission. - (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. The eighteenth under number 961/7-2016 topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Finance and National Defence Ministers, regarding the Greek Vehicle Industry, will not be discussed. The second question under number 4375/304/31-3-2016 - application for the submission of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP for Athens of the New Democracy Mr Nikita Kaklamani to the Minister of Finance, regarding the financial size of the contract with Kim Glen, will not be discussed. This question has an adventurous story. The third with number 3062/10/10/2016 question by the Independent MEP Lakonias Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Finance, on compensation for the share of cooperative banks, will not be discussed. Now we discuss the seventh under number 1105/8-7-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of National Defence, concerning the confiscation of corporate accounts by "Navygeia Elefsina". Mr. Saridis's question will be answered by Mr. Vitsats. It's probably a continuation of the previous question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u221	Yeah. We were two Heads of State and asked the relevant ministers the question accordingly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u222	Good. So it is also easy to discuss the question in time. You have the floor, Mr. Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u223	Minister, on 6 July it became known by the General Secretariat of Public Revenue that it had seized the accounts of the Elefsina shipyards, trying to collect part of the debts due to the shipyards to the Greek State. This move caused a great deal of trouble in Elefsina shipyards, since, through these accounts, not only the payroll of the company's staff was carried out, but all the move was made with third parties' receipts and suppliers' payments. Furthermore, this surprise move by the General Secretariat of Public Revenue doubts the smooth completion of the work of building the two missile missiles of the Hellenic Navy. This decision of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue is arbitrary, as with Mr. The property of Elefsina shipyards is protected for the purpose of paying employees' wages, as well as achieving the completion of the two-pillar construction program. It is a question of wondering what has been done, since it comes a few months after the agreement of the Hellenic Navy with the Shipyards of Elefsina and since they already had some Greek shipowners on their side expressing interest in using the services of the Elefsina Shipyards, which we believe would lead - and we believe - to a solution to the problem called Elefsina Shipyard. Therefore, you ask, Minister: What do you intend to do in order to allow the programme of the two missiles of the Navy to be completed smoothly? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u224	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u225	Mr. Saridis, first of all we have to make three assumptions. The first admission is that the main objective of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue is to raise money, especially those due to the public, and especially those companies or corporate schemes, which are ultimately due. I am not going to go into this because Mr Alexiadis answered. So no one can blame anyone for doing their job well. Let's get this straight. The second admission must be - because it has also been mentioned by Mr Carras - that the construction of two fireflies does not cost 40 million. These costs about 300 million. If we take these two assumptions, we'll find the problem, how it's created. In other words, you cannot connect the construction of the two firearms to the specific amount mentioned in the agreement, which is an extension of previous contracts and which covers 70%, while the other 30%. Let me not explain the law now, which we know ourselves. These 40 million-dollar accounts have not been seized. None of those bills have been confiscated because he couldn't be confiscated. In my opinion, however, there is a problem in interpretation. In other words, the Elefsina shipyards, to build these missiles, have more money than the contract they should put into and which they have in other accounts. That is the basic issue. The second key issue is that the Elefsina Shipyards are currently carrying out other programs of the Hellenic Navy, i.e. "MYCONIOS", as well as offsets from previous contracts. So we found ourselves in consultation with the General Secretariat of Public Revenue on this point: To send them what is involved in this overall programme - so I have explained that 40 million of them do not make all - and that they should leave the confiscation. The Navy already today - because there was a meeting at the end of last week and today, in consultation with the administration of the Elefsina Shipyard - sends the necessary documents, so that this money will be released. This will happen whenever the Navy puts money not for 40 million, but for the whole programme. This will also create a state of calm in the shipyards. They have other problems with shipyards and debts and with banks - where there will certainly be no peace - which concern ownership.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u226	Mr. Saridis, do you have any further questions?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u227	No, but let me give a second answer, Mr President, since I have the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u228	Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u229	We do not hide our satisfaction with your position, Minister. It clearly identifies that the Ministry and its leadership are aware of the reality and support the agreements and commitments they have given. We hope and wish you will respect all the other commitments you have made as Minister and as Ministry, concerning the Hellenic Defence Industry and ELVO in Thessaloniki. Greece doesn't fit any more. She can't afford to lose any other property she's left with. And the shipyards are an asset of Greece and the Defence Industry is also Greece's asset. Her know-how and youth are also an asset. If the Ministry of Finance and the General Secretariat of Public Revenue cannot preserve these assets, then do so, Minister. Your answer clearly reveals two things. Your personal determination to help, but also the fact that something is wrong. We say this because in recent years, a great deal has been done by the healthy political forces of this place to regain their confidence in the institutions and the functioning of the Republic. Such moves, like the movements of the General Secretariat of Public Income, are likely to blow up all this thinking in the air. The reason why the Centro Association supports the institution of the independent authorities is because it believes that these independent authorities will be able to help restore the confidence of Greek citizens against the state mechanisms. The General Secretariat of Public Revenues in this move did not create a source of revenue, but actually created a source of problems. Since 2017, the position of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue will be taken by the independent authority of public revenue, where it is our Memorandum of Understanding and has already been passed and it is a law of the State, from our side, we must say that we and you should see things from a different perspective. Besides, what message do we think can someone who is currently listening to us for all this mess between services? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u230	Minister, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u231	Just one more word, Mr President, to make it easier for the debate. I have answered the main issue, but I would like to say that we have won a very good cooperation with the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, and that is essential, in order to solve problems, as with the Ministry of Finance on all the issues relating to the Defence Industry, which has been found and in a difficult position, but I think it has very much potential ahead of it. And since the debate has brought it, I can tell you that it is almost complete - something remains - the out-of-court settlement of the Ministry of Defence, the Armed Forces with ELVO, so very quickly there will also be 7 million euros available in relation to a previous procedure, so there will be no reason for you to ask another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Minister, for the presence and the answers. I am aware that the twelfth under number 1041/246/2016 is a topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks Mr.George Lazarides to the Minister for the Environment and Energy regarding the examination of a successful examination of the energy inspectors. Accordingly, the thirteenth under number 1043/246/2016 topical question by MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the premise of tragic developments in the field of electricity production, is not being discussed due to the impediment of Mr. Skourletis. Finally, the fourth question under number 1093/5-7-2016 of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the abolition of the CSCE, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister, Mr. Petropoulos. However, the fifth question under number 1111/11-7-2016 will be discussed in the context of a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis, to the Ministers for Education, Research and Religious Affairs and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction on measures for the education of refugees. Mr. Delis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in our country for months because of the European Union's decisions, some sixty thousand refugees have been trapped, the victims of imperialist wars and interventions. Of course, the demands for the immediate recognition of their status as refugees continue to be topical and fundamental today, and the creation of human areas of temporary residence, particularly the fulfilment of their request, their basic request - at least most of them - for organised and secure travel to the countries of their final destination. But, Minister, there is one side on the refugee question, which is particularly sensitive and urgent. They are the thousands of refugees who, in addition to all the problems they have and the rest of the refugees, have naturally left their schools, but they still have educational needs and therefore need the immediate state support of the Ministry of Education to meet these educational needs. At the same time, because most - not to say all - have traumatic experiences, they also need that psychological support from experts to overcome the injuries they have experienced. So, in our opinion, direct State intervention in education support and creative employment for these children is needed either in hospitality or in schools, which are not operating now in the summer, instead of these children wandering around the unacceptable, anyway, hosting places. So we are asking you about the necessary measures to be taken by your Ministry to meet these needs, both the educational and psychological support needs, of course, along with the recruitment of all the necessary staff, for teachers and psychologists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u234	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u235	I would like to make a general comment first, that the Ministry of Education has experience of education in our country from other countries. After the Cultivation, with the wave of the repatriated Greeks and then economic migrants, intercultural schools were created to meet the needs of these children. I would like to inform you that according to the central immigration agency on July 13, 2016, fifty-seven thousand seventy-nine refugees have been declared, of which 40%, that is, twenty-two thousand eighty-three-one, are children under the age of eighteen. The educational policy of the Ministry of Education for Refugees, for their education, is divided into four areas. The first area concerns the setting up of a Committee on Refugees, held in March 2016, with working axes: first, the registration of children of infantry, school and post-school age, in order to identify the needs of support, care and education for these children. Secondly, the registration of refugees, who could work or contribute voluntarily to educational activities on the basis of certified qualifications, as well as other skills. And thirdly, the education and training of the staff involved in the education process and other relevant actions. To assist this Committee on Refugees, two parallel committees were set up, one scientific and one artistic content, consisting of universities specializing in intercultural education, teaching, sociology, anthropology, geography and pre-school education. In the context of these committees, action in favour of refugees was organised, both during the summer and after the start of the new school year. These actions concern sports and artistic events, familiarization with new technologies, Greek language courses as a foreign language for all ages of children and adolescents and, finally, refugee information for the Greek educational system. The second area of education policy of our Ministry concerns the actions of the Institute for Education Policy. The Institute for Educational Policy has collected the educational material produced under the European programmes, which have been implemented in the reception classes and in the normal classes of intercultural schools, with the ultimate aim of exploiting this material in our refugee environment. I shall refer to the other two areas of the educational activities of our Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u236	Mr. Delia, do you have anything to add?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u237	Of course. Minister, I listened carefully. What remains, after all, is that in order to address the problem of the needs of the applicants you have set up a scientific committee, which simply records and table proposals, without any substantial planning, without the slightest planning to implement these proposals. We must say here that whatever timetables for action have been set by the Ministry. Let's say, since June, as far as we know, according to the Ministry's announcements, it was about starting education activities for the applicants. Nothing has happened at all. We want to say here that, at the very moment we are talking about, there are several educational interventions in the area where the refugees are staying. But these interventions, Mr Minister, are in the total absence of the Government and the Ministry of Education. The Ministry of Education from the refugees' hosting places is literally missing. Of the seventy-six bodies, which we know are involved in educational activities, say that the thirty-six are clubs, associations and voluntary organisations. Thirty-two are non-governmental organisations. There are five universities and three public bodies: OAED, the Public Library and the Region of Central Greece. Finally, there are six - seven initiatives of the refugees themselves. The Ministry of Education, however, Minister, does not exist anywhere. In fact, we think that beyond the drawings on paper, which the Ministry is doing, the problem requires immediate treatment and not from September which comes and will be seen. In fact, you have also entrusted this work to so-called non-governmental organisations. I would remind you here that we had tabled a question to the Minister responsible, and to our surprise, he replied that he does not know exactly what the non-governmental organizations in our country are and what their activity is. You have therefore entrusted them with all or most of them to non-governmental organisations, of which much has of course been said. We all know what's going on. NGOs also have the exclusive prerogative of funding and even fat. And if they act, most of them, uncontrollably. What we want and - if you want - we demand on behalf of these unfortunate children, the refugees, is for the Ministry to take initiatives immediately. There's no time to lose. We're talking about kids who have horror painted in their eyes from what they've lived. We think they need to feel that they live in human conditions. So, take initiatives, as a ministry, with state funding or with funds from the European Union, and even from the United Nations, so as to satisfy the need for these children for educational and psychological support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u238	Minister, put the epilogue on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u239	Mr von Wogau, I think you are wrong with the Ministry when you say that it is limited to planning and does not intervene - I will explain to you immediately - and that it has entrusted all the work to other organisations beyond that. His presence is intense. I would therefore like to refer to the two other areas of our Ministry of Education policy. The first is the establishment of the refugee education office, which has as its task the creation of school units and annexes to the existing educational units of parallel classes and classes of reception. Enables and concerns the logistical infrastructure of the training of refugees within and outside the hosting areas, the movement of pupils to educational units, the search for ways of funding, the cooperation with Greek and international institutions, the monitoring and implementation of the relevant protocols and the internationalisation of the issue of refugees. I would also like to tell you that a fourth sector covers other actions than what I have told you. In particular, it concerns teachers of all levels of education with training or specialization in intercultural education and in the teaching of Greek as a foreign language. In other words, we are aiming at the secondment of these teachers to the refugee accommodation coordination post in order to inform the refugees in their area of responsibility. We are aiming to update the record - because the populations are constantly changing - of the lessons of the refugee students with age and pedagogical criteria, to monitor and coordinate the educational policy of the Ministry of Education for refugees in hospitals and urban environments. I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Education has been present since the first time it has been involved in the training of these refugees. Of course, do not underestimate the design. It takes planning to know the steps you take to deal with the problems. I have the impression that our ministry has covered a large part of the education of refugees. Of course, he's got a lot to do. I believe that we will be able to deal with this issue in the field of education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, too. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-14-S1-commons.u241	With the consent of the House at 16.00 noon the sitting is closed for tomorrow morning 15 July 2016 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions are being debated.
