ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-05-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Today, only one question will be discussed. It is the sixth under number 79/11-10-2016 timely question of the first cycle of the Z' Vice President of the Parliament and of the Athens MP Mr. Spyridon Lykoudis on the regeneration of the Picrodafni stream in Attica Prefecture. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Socrates Famelos. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-05-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the stream of Piccrodaphne, you know, is the last thing that's left in the Attica basin. It is a rare natural element with great importance for the biodiversity of the region. It crosses the area of Ilioupoli, Agios Dimitrios, Alimos and Paleo Faliro. The decision of the Ministry of Environment has been described as a special environmental interest, while according to the new regulatorial plan of Athens it is classified as the main priority watercourses of the Attica basin. The rich vegetation and the large number of trees make the stream of Pikrodafne a natural lung, while based on the Greek Ornithological Society is the last refuge for migratory birds. Over a hundred bird species each year visit and remain in this area. The Regional Council of Attica with its decision No 279/2016/30-8-2016 approved the study of the project "Picrodafni stream refreshment" from Vouliagmenos Avenue to estuary. According to the protests and objections of the commissions of residents and institutions in the region, the stream by this decision will substantially be converted into an artificial urina pipeline, after the wires will be placed at 80% of its route. At the same time, as stated in the regional decision, seven hundred sixty-seven out of the thousands that exist today and which have been naturally developed. Obviously these are complaints and objections from residents. The question about this is whether you can accept the objections, whether you can and can have the opportunity to have fun with them, to think that they are not right. So, on the basis of the above, I ask you: Is the protection and upgrading of this natural ecosystem ensured? How do you deal with the protests of residents, operators and specialist scientists to cancel this study? How is the protection of surrounding areas against floods ensured? Has this study been placed in the judgement of the relevant departments of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-05-S1-commons.u4	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-05-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Lykoudis, thank you very much for the opportunity to discuss this issue in Parliament. The fact is that the issue of the Picrodafne stream is indeed a matter involving ecological issues, environmental, social and legal, because it is, if you like, one of the most important issues that proves the pathogenesity forty years in the southeastern part of the capital. The study to be precise was submitted by the regional environment study and approved by the Decentralised Administration. The Regional Council gave its opinion and did not approve, with regard to environmental aspects. This project is, at the same time, delimitation and environmental management of a stream over a length of eight and a half kilometres from the Boulian Avenue to its estuary. There are too many problems and many traps, if you like, for the safety of citizens as well as for their property, because many flooding phenomena are observed. Indicative of the traps and problems is that during the winter season there was a decline in the greens in the area of Epirus Street in Faliro. There were serious problems for children, for the citizens and for cars that went through the area at that time. And this is because since the 1970s there has been a maliciousness in terms of the stream of Pikrodaphne. In my view, this is indicative of the Greek administration and the priorities set by the administration and the governments of our country, because they designated it as a road and incorporated it into town planning. Based on this erroneous definition, there was also a design of the NSAIDs up to its cover and its conversion into a closed pipeline. The result was all the legal buildings that had been issued, afterward, to be in the air, because its definition was obviously annulled as a road. When ten years ago, the effort to revive it began again because the administration and the prefecture neglected its demarcation study, the result being that we had serious problems again, that the support projects could not be placed and that there is an inconsistencies. This has resulted in the stream having a slap, garbage, soil and in many parts of the wall - that is to say, it is not natural for its praes - to have a serious lack of planning of infrastructure projects. As a result, I think it was, on the basis of the definition - as you said - 'priority work', that there should be a study as a water course, that it should be planned, that there should be no flooding phenomena, that there should be organised infrastructure construction, so as not to limit the flow and that there should also be the following interventions, in terms of its environmental characteristics, and that we should identify them. First of all, as far as the surface is concerned, there is no sealing and sealing of its surface, because it remains earthy at 61%. The cables, as you described, remain only 26% of its surface and only where the speed of the flow is such, which erods green and technical works, i.e. concretes, are only 12%, because already in the catastrophic part, in the area of Faliros, it was already limited. As far as the issues of trees are concerned, I think it is worth saying that out of the three thousand fifty trees, which exist, seven hundred and seventy-six will be cut and replaced by nine hundred, three thousand fifty bushes will be added and they will become water seeds, so that the plant balance will be positive, that is to say, more vegetation, more vegetation, and that therefore the plant ecosystem will remain, attracts and nurtures birds, aquatic animals and everything else there is in the area. So neither the flow is limited nor the vegetation is sealed, i.e. there is no concrete everywhere in the stream, so that it is earthy and still development and operation, if you like, and the rest of the ecosystem. The cables - to prevent people from being afraid - are not the ones that will create something like concrete, like concrete on the whole surface of the stream. On the contrary, they will also replace vegetation to a certain extent, which is why they will be hydrosuppressed on this surface. I think that we are pleased with the fundamental basic environmental obligation, to keep the stream open, not to close as all previous administrations planned and some study of the EEAS, to remain as a water supply and environmental, if you want, to improve both the country's breath and to improve the area's ventilation and, at the same time, to limit, first of all, the flooding phenomena, not to reduce the ecosystem, and to have a place of recreation and operation in this society in a safe way. I think that in this way, with technical works, of course, but also with ecodesign, as approved by the decentralised administration and consulted by the Region, social and environmental factors are satisfied. As last I want to say, there have been too many meetings and three alternatives have been examined. All actors and residents were invited to many debates and with the previous Deputy Minister and they consumed at least six months of consultation in order to incorporate society proposals at the level of planning and to avoid any concern, as far as possible, of course, the project's design.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-05-S1-commons.u6	Here, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-05-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you know that there is no more indecent thing than a Member of Parliament discuss with the Minister in question and the answers he gets to be answers that question the evidence he submits. I have no reason to accept that you are responding honestly to the problem, and I also have no reason to accept that what you say as the starting point has what you are saying, that everything that will be done there to defend the stream of Pikrodafne and not to destroy it. But come on when people insist and do not insist on ignorance, Minister, or on any stubborn and modest perception of the matter. They have no reason. They're local residents. If they were convinced that the stream would be saved, so their connection with this stream would not have any such objection. Residents insist that the stream is essentially transformed into an artificial ovum duct because wires are placed in 80% of its route. You say it's 26%. Obviously neither can I disprove you, but I cannot accept the report by the inhabitants who are mentioned in conjunction with scientific studies, which have been carried out with scientists, whom they have called themselves. They also argue that in theory to stabilise the banks against corrosion and to protect the transgressions on the bank needed an entire process, to break down mandarins and illegal masonry that exist there. There are no references to these issues in the Regional Decision. So concern is reasonable, Minister, because if we want to protect a stream, we disappear everything that covers it and everything that gives the image of a bundle of the area. Also, residents say it is unclear when and how arbitrary ones will be removed, because there are arbitrarily in the stream. Secondly, it is not clear how the floods will actually be dealt with. There is no hint, because if the mistreats are not corrected, and by destroying vegetation water that flows, it will flow faster and the danger will be even greater for floods. Minister, I wish these objections had an exaggeration on their basis. We accept it to see really whether the stream can be protected or not. I now read that the European Environment Agency, at least seventeen European cities, including Madrid, Vienna, Oslo, Bucharest, Leipzig, has in recent years developed interventions to promote water routes, considering that they are too serious, important for how cities operate and live in cities. We here as much water as there was, we've shut it down. There's no Illissus. There's no Iridan. Kifissus has become a highway. If this last water route, which is Picrodafni, is lost, you can understand, Minister, that people are right - I think - sensitive. I would like to say again to you, in the good sense, that we are trying to save the stream of Pikrodafne and not anything else. Obviously, these objections need to be answered in a more convincing manner, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-05-S1-commons.u8	Mr Socrates Famelos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-05-S1-commons.u9	Mr Lykoudis, it would indeed be interesting to assess the concern of the citizens and to structure on these citizens a sincere relationship to the protection of the environment and the protection of the stream. You are quite right that the biggest problem right now and the capital and most Greek cities are the closure of the rafts that were obviously both water and airways and also natural environments. That is why I closed my initial position by saying that for the first time a central, priority, watercourse, provided by the Athens Regulatory, remains open and the water flow is facilitated without the port phenomena and we keep the plant balance. To assess, however, the debate on the positions of social actors and citizens, I have asked and given me from the Minutes of the Regional Council, first of all, the position of Mayor Faliros, who, in the downstream, accepts all the flooding and has the most important risk. Here I see that his position was positive about the work by representing the society of Faliro and, of course, raises the question that the three magic words are "setting, delimiting and rejuvenating". Then, in the previous municipality, in the Municipality of Alimos, I also asked the City Council for the minutes, where I see that with a ten-vote vote in favour and two whites, they are voting in favour of the project. Let me say that this also helps to recognise precisely the social situation and the concerns that have been raised. But there is indeed one issue and I would like to make use of your own contribution to this, about what we are doing with violations and arbitrary structures. What we have explained in our own inquiry is that, at the same time as the environmental authorisation for the construction of the flooding project, there will also be a demarcation. Indeed, in a document from the Region of Attica - I have it specifically in my hands - it says that no illegal private building will be left in its place after demarcation. But the fact that the administration and self-government have not been doing so many years was, if you like, a starting point for not to fight arbitrary construction. Essentially, it was strengthened through refreshment reactions the trespass and arbitrary functioning of some actions there. So I think that at the same time we need to have two hands in the area: environmental footprints and legality in construction, that is to say we have an environmentally safe project for the flooding phenomena, but also by demarcation, so that all illegal structures are demolished and withdrawn, because if both are not done, we will not defend anti-military protection, we will not strengthen anti-military protection. At the same time, the construction of the greens and the planting with hydroseeds, which will take place in them, but also the sections with the jargonets, even at this small percentage of 25%, enhance the stability of the leeks, because now they were only fermented materials, which were balms that had fallen, even walls of the whole concrete, along with pipelines, which have sewage in the area, which are in the stream. All this will be cleaned up. There'll be a bed that will allow the flow so we don't have flooding phenomena. We'll have a stable section. We will also have the plant ecosystem, which will keep the greens together with the constructions carried out at a very small rate, so that the flood protection is indeed guaranteed the rest of the plant ecosystem. However, I think you should know that there have been many meetings on this subject, too many proposals have been incorporated. I understand that in the microclimates of a region, a neighbourhood, all the issues may not have been resolved, because on an area that turns the stream - just say it - we need to strengthen the leeways so that they don't get corroborated, and on its straight path the bed will not be affected and it will remain open. Perhaps a small neighborhood has a small impact on, for example, the wires. However, the conditions that have been introduced are such that even on the wire rods they can accumulate ground without restricting the bed and becoming a hydroseed. It's a small replacement part of the natural system. I understand it's not the old situation. But in relation to a forty-five years of arbitrary construction and trespassing and restraining of the bed, I think that now we are stabilising the bed, protecting society against flooding, keeping the natural systems in the center of Athens almost and achieving a solution with the contribution of self-government, primary and secondary, to a very large extent, which is clearly the indication that things can be done otherwise, even within a densely populated area. And we must strengthen this environmental footprint in an agreement that we will also make within the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-05-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too. Colleagues, the fifth under No 232/21-11-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the digitization of mobile monuments and the lousy working relationships called for by the archaeologists to work, will not be discussed because of the inquiring MP. The fourth question under number 201/14-11-2016 of the First Cycle of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Eve Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the safeguarding of jobs in the "Aster" Vouliagmeni, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Member Asked Member. The first, with number 227/18-11-2016, a top-stage question by the Deputy Minister of Health of the New Democracy, Eleftherios Ausgenakis, to the Minister of Health, on the systematic degradation of the National Health System, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis, due to a workload and will be redefined for discussion. The third, with number 190/8-11-2016, top-circuit question of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health, on the range of use of telemedicine in Greece, will not be discussed by the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Pavlos Polakis, due to a workload and will be redefined for discussion. The second, under number 235/21-11-2016, timely question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Serres of the New Democracy, Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the abandonment of the X-ray monument of Amphipolis, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Mrs. Lydias Konordos on account of a workload. Finally, the first question by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Greek Parliament, Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister for Migration Policy, concerning the program for the rental of apartments in refugees from the Athens Development and Tourism Promotion Company (ETA), will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for Migration Policy Mr.Ioannis Mousalas, as he expects information from the relevant municipality. We also have some requests for permissions for absence from fellow Members. MP II Athens of SYRIZA Mr.George Diaras asks to be absent for family and personal reasons on Monday 12 December 2016 and Tuesday 13 December 2016. Mr. Theodoros Fortsakis, Member of the State of New Democracy, seeks permission from absence in France from noon on 12 December to noon on 15 December 2016. Georgios Koumoutsakos, MP in Athens, New Democracy, seeks permission from a few days' absence from 6 December to 7 December 2016. Member of the Democratic Association Mr Ioannis Maniatis has requested permission from a short-day absence for the period from December 5 to December 6, 2016 due to a transition abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-05-S1-commons.u11	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-05-S1-commons.u12	With the consent of the House at 18.31' the meeting for tomorrow, Tuesday, December 6, 2016 at 18.00, on the subject of Parliament's work, legislative work: only discussion and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2017", according to the agenda distributed.
