ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] First good autumn, since it's early for winter. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Agreements on Greek-language education, intercultural education and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided, at its meeting on 3 August 2016, to discuss the draft law in two meetings. The draft law will be discussed in the sitting at the beginning. At tomorrow's meeting, the articles and amendments of the bill will be discussed as a unity. Minister, would you like to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u2	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u3	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u4	Will you speak, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u5	Yeah, I'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u6	Not after the rapporteurs?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u7	This procedure is not foreseen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u8	The Minister has the right, Mr. Comrade. He wants to talk at first. Don't you want to hear him?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u9	It's something that's not customary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u10	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u12	Will you open the list of speakers, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u13	Are the records going to be done now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u14	With the first rapporteur. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, we must wish for a good year. The debate is taking place today, a few days before sanctification and eleven months after the government's planning statements. We are here to fight not with the pitiful predictions and the catastrophe that we have been listening to for so long, but with what we said 11 months ago and we have done. In October we committed ourselves to a national social dialogue on education without backing, and now we are making use of the conclusions of the dialogue. All reforms in education, to succeed, have as a condition confidence in the teacher. We trust him with our children. Why not trust his judgment of the course of education? Besides, the school was and is always his people, teachers, parents and, of course, the students. The first act of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government was to restore the climate of democracy in schools, stop the vengeance with the alias of evaluation, return the teachers to availability and even stop the bang of public spending on education to 2.8% of GDP. Because if the New Democracy and PASOK were still running, according to the medium-term that they had voted, expenditure would fall further to 1.8% of GDP, and this difference in absolute figures amounts to 175,000 euros. The poorer it would be the already poor public school in our country. We have therefore stopped the depreciation of public education. We put the equality and quality school as a priority. School open, hospitable and democratic for all children living in our country. The excellent school everywhere and not a few hundred schools of excellence in a placed reality for the rest of the thousands of schools. There's a lot of talk about excellence. We'll talk about this today in the House. I do not want to prejudge this dialogue, but let us know that different, sometimes diametrically opposite policies are at stake behind the word 'excellence'. There is evidence that this invoking the word "excellence" has led in recent years to an increase in educational and social inequalities in schools. In the bill that we have before us, we are dealing with a lot of critical issues at school. One is about Greek-language education. Then the Deputy Minister, Mr. Pegleris, will speak. The second issue concerns private education and has become the subject of intense public debate. The third issue concerns special education. The fourth issue concerns the refugee issue. I would like to mention the two issues of particular importance. Private education. You all know that there is a constitutional check. Public or non-State education is under state supervision and control, precisely because the Constitution recognises that the right to education is uniform. Private education, therefore, is not purely business under the Constitution. Ensuring the labour rights of private teachers is a prerequisite for the reliability of education and of the private school. It's not a syndicate right. Teachers are responsible for the public degrees issued by private schools. Can they be under stress, fear, or threat of sudden, inaccurate and usually abusive dismissal? Does anyone accept that as a normal situation? Teachers' mobilisations after Post-Multipulation led, on the basis of the constitutional order, to the Law of 1977. It is important to read the minutes of that sitting. Government of Constantine Karamanlis, Minister of Education Georgios Rallis and the main supporters of the arrangement, which is currently accused of Sovietisation of education, Evangelos Papanoutsos. In theory and then, as today, I see an historic figure of the movement of private teachers, the historic president of OELE, George Physakis. I would not like to go into detail what George Rallys, Evangelos Papanoutsos, said at the time, said. However, I shall refer to a text which, in my opinion, is important, because it answers what is being heard in a clear manner. I do not adopt it all, but listen to it before we reject it. So he says this text of a person who, if we give him the designations we have been accepted at this time, must be uneducated, be a sovieter, be a man of the minor effort, be a person who wants to level public education and at the same time dismantle the sacred right to property in the field of private education, says this person - I read: "The lack of the permanentity of private teachers is not only a disadvantage for teachers, which, if limited to it, would only be of social importance. It causes a series of other abnormalities.’ "Teachers are entirely dependent on the employer who is the main target of profit. And the more he depends on the employer, the more the business school and the less it is in school and training. This insecurity of private teachers will necessarily lead to a series of retreat, which will ultimately lead to the detriment of training. This is particularly obvious in that category of private schools that gather pupils who for any reason were unable to go to the public school. And it goes on to say: 'The first obligation that should be imposed on entrepreneurs - and sellers of education' - if we were to say so today, we would have heard a number of charges on a staggered scale - 'is the permanentity of teaching staff, so that this could be abstract and away from business pressures to be dedicated to his work. With permanent teaching staff in private schools, there will be better and more effective public supervision in them. And all this, of course, for the transitional period that there will still be private education. Because the long-term policy of the State must be to abolish it and to offer free education from the State." Who says that? Pavlos Bakoyannis, Sunday, November 7, 1976, in the newspaper "The Step of Sunday". Please enter the entire article in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes this article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are not suggesting any of what Paul Bakoyannis then describes. Much less, I'd say, we're suggesting. Of course, at that time, Bakoyannis lived in the constellation of political life where there was a political radicalism brought about by the post-population in our country. There were movements, claims, there were interest in real democratic education in our country after the resurgence of the seven-year period. There was, of course, then, the history of'socialism' - that in many introductory forms. And Constantine Karamanlis was accused of this and on other issues he was a socialist. Today, we are living at the time when the Accuracy Anti-Civilization has seen the light of the true neoliberalism. But, if it is to answer the Qualified Opposition with arguments in the government's policy, it must at the same time respond with more powerful arguments in the past of radical liberalism rather than neoliberalism of its prolongation, namely, in the past of caramanism. It is clear that the abolition of the status of reasoned redundancies - because this is what we are talking about today - by the Samara Government - Venizelos with the Minister of Education of the Constantine Arvanitopoulos opened a big hole in everything that the late Paul Bakoyannis said earlier. Now, of course, it seems to me that Mr Arvanitopoulos is unresponsively adopting the school-masters' propaganda for the bill that "the Soviets are coming to Greece". I would ask that the article by Mr Arvanitopoulos, a school-leaving attorney, should be filed in the minutes of the House as from 12 August of '16 in the newspaper 'Ta News'. [[At this point, the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes this article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is clear that the reasoned redundancies and the Council - please say it - which it judges before the matter comes before the Court of Justice is the subject of the public policy. If it is to be professional councils or any other body - there are proposals, we hear them and we talk about them - it is very important. The main point is that there should be a cross-party consultation. So we are talking about regimens which are not very different in substance, but which place an institution which decides whether redundancies are justified or not, before the matter comes before justice. I would like here to keep the climate of convergence that appeared at the meetings of the Committee on Morphic Affairs. From different roads the JRC, the PASOK, the Potami, and from New Democracy, Mr. Fortsakis converged in restoring the status of justified redundancies, which had unfortunately been dismantled by the Minister of Diamantopoulou and was completely abolished by Arvanitopoulos. I should like to refer here to the statement made by the former President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos Kaklamanis, who expresses his view in favour of the bill and indeed on this issue. I would ask that Mr Kaklamani be included in the Minutes of the House. [[At this point, the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the statement referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But there is also the statement by the GSC, which we will put in the Minutes, a new declaration, as well as the joint announcement by the three trade unions of teachers, the ILO, OLEME and OELE. I would also like this statement to be included in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is obvious that there is a social front in favour of education, in favour of education, not as a merchandise, but as a social right. This is expressed - to one or other extent - coincides with the views of many parties within the House - and with the actions, with the announcements, with the public interventions of the factors I mentioned earlier. It is also clear that the government's political choice to create a climate of redress of the credibility of education as a whole through the strengthening of the credibility of teachers and, in particular, a climate of correction of the credibility of overall and private education through the creation of conditions for the teacher to be inconsistent with his or her function in favour of the education of our children, there is no way of getting it back. We will put it in the Greek Parliament's judgement as much as they are created and encouraged by the self-interests of another type of side effects and interference. The Government has the legislative initiative and the autonomy of the legislative initiative. These, for there to be no summer dreams or rather, now, autumn night. The second issue, which is included in the private education bill, is about schools. It is obvious that schools should operate in elementary working conditions of young people usually at the age of teachers in them. We establish the procedure so that twenty-one hours of work a week will have full social security and that means a better pay. And it is obvious that for tens of thousands - I repeat - younger teachers are a path of elementary work security, which at the same time enables them better to work towards children in schools. There is also the question of irregular degrees. And that's a lot of talk. I would like to say that we will implement the Yannaku Act, after many years of failure by previous Memorandum governments. And most importantly, the inappropriateness of the current President of the New Democracy, who, although voting for the Giannakou law, supported him, knew him, then as Minister for Administrative Reform, did not apply him. We're applying him. We are applying it and we will soon have results. The possibility of atypical diplomas being applied does not exist. He's going to be in order. We're not talking about fakes. It's the D.A.'s work. On the issue of controls in private schools: I have to tell you that for the days of our Government the only check on the building standards for arbitrary, fire protection, access to private schools by the 2012 resolution of Law 4093. All these checks should have ended on 31/8/2013, i.e. three years ago. From the data to date, in a total of two hundred nineteen private schools that submitted an operating licence file, which was checked by the EEA, the competent body of the Ministry of Education - 27% of them had problems with their building requirements. Of the hundred two schools that were approved in their file, only 30% showed no problem. The Ministry intends to complete all the checks at private schools shortly. We hear a diversion argument about public policy. Building control of public schools is the task of municipalities and communities. It goes on and on as long as it goes, it'll speed up. However, this does not mean leaving the private education buildings at the mercy of the illegalities that may have very serious consequences for their operation. I'm on my way to special lawsuit. It is an amendment, which was tabled in public consultation, involving about five thousand interested parties, has developed a rich dialogue and with opposition arguments. First of all, I would like to say that for us special treatment is an obligation and it is not just one of the usual political rockets. We proved it in practice the year that passed, where there was a record of subsistence recruitment for special treatment. We have taken new steps to include, so that the school is for all children, without a ghetto for children with special educational needs. This means differentiated teaching and therefore training of teachers. I.E.P. It will shortly proceed to such a programme. It also means recruitment and appointments - and I stress the word 'definitions', because special treatment has a small number of permanent appointments. In the year that comes, we will proceed to permanent appointments, as a priority, we will have appointments to special education. However, I would also like to mention the creation of hundreds of new special treatment structures. After eight years of indifference to meet the pupils' special educational needs, they were founded this year and will operate from this year five hundred thirty-three, sixty-one in kindergarten, three hundred forty-four in grades and a hundred and twenty-six in high school. Three special kindergartens, six special primary schools, five E.E.E.K., nine special professional schools and twelve lyric classes. Since the following school year, all special professional high school, old and new, that is, thirty - two plus nine, will work in the new form of the Single Professional High School - High School, four plus four years. I have referred to recruitment earlier, and I would like to say this: nine thousand teachers will be recruited this year for special education. Appropriations secured. We have also secured four hundred more appropriations for psychologists and social workers, which will strengthen the network of support for schools and general education. Results: All general education schools are more than doubled, their students will be qualified in education and psycho-emotional support from special scientific staff. The people employed for this purpose will not be rewarded with the wages of the Joint Work Programmes, but with the salaries of the alternates, which means that their salaries are doubled over the previous years. So, we're talking about a total of 9,500 workers who will send the special treatment in the school year 2016-2017. I would like to end by addressing this issue - we hear it - which has emerged. There is a fear that the graduates of special classes, special treatment, will not be recruited. That's not true. The amendment concerns recruitment of alternates. We need - I repeat - 9,100 teachers. The graduates from Volos and PAMAK are 2,000 and they're sure to be hired. Many of them have a great deal of service. Even because of their pre-service they have the right to be recruited. The question is how we will cover the need from 2,200 to 9,100 of the assistants' temporary staff. And there it is reasonable to make use of people who have increased formal qualifications and presence in the work of special education in our schools, even teachers, in the past five years, is not new - who have undertaken work in the field of special education. They are even teachers without special qualifications. Because you are in a dilemma: what will you do in case there is a need for support? Will you leave the child without support, or will you send a teacher to help him? It is not ours - I repeat - that reality. In the last five years - six years - from what I've seen - they've been recruited by the public 500 to 1,000 teachers without specialisation and qualifications - it's the truth - to support special education. So there is no fear that those graduates of the two special treatment departments will not be recruited this year. The issue of appointments, which concern the permanent status, is an issue that we need to discuss and we will be discussing it as a Ministry sooner than in November for all teachers. Because there is not at present a clear, fair system, in our view, for there to be massive appointments. We will therefore also discuss this issue and, in the context of this debate, we will of course also take into account the well-founded interests of the graduates of the two special education schools. So we don't have to be afraid. We have shown that we are discussing, we are solving problems and we are not creating them. We have demonstrated that it is possible to proceed with a permanent nomination system in September 2017. In order to do this, however, we have to be ready by Christmas. Last year we wanted to have this possibility of permanent appointments for November 2016. It was not possible for the simple reason that the first assessment had not been completed. Now it's over, and we're on our way. On the refugee issue, the government responds to the solidarity shown by society and the reception of society towards refugees. We are responding not only to the country's international obligations - I repeat - but also to the climate of love and solidarity shown by society. The plan has been mentioned. It cannot be formulated in a law because it has many variables. We know that thing. What's the direction? Parts of inclusion in schools around camps, kindergartens within camps - because preschool children are not easily away from their mother or their mother leaves them - school units in what camp is far away and apart from the residential tissue and therefore cannot be transferred for reception and integration classes in schools in the area. We have secured EUR 9 million from the International Organisation for Migration on Movements, we have 7 million from Community funds for the organisation and the educational staff. Finally, I would like to inform the National Representation that 24 million books have gone from mid-August to all the schools in the country. And that was not self-evident when, for example, Mrs Diamantopoulou's year until December, the courses were done with photocopies. There will also be twenty thousand eight-five alternates, which most, most of them, seek to go from the first days to schools and not to waves by December, as was the case in the past twenty years and especially in the years of the memoranda. Opening schools on time is a profit for the whole society. It marks the country's constant return to normality to come out of the crisis. It makes the public school even more reliable. This is why a few days before schools open up it is wrong to put party disputes in place and to transform the opening of schools, as stated by the Qualified Opposition, as "the mother of the Battles" and close to summing up attitudes of the client state in education and perceptions of a poorly-informed union with the sole aim of delaying the opening of the schools, even in certain parts, as well as damage to the government image. In the earlier agenda of a debate in the House in a short time, when the Prime Minister's programme allows it to be presented shortly, each party will present its plan for school. For us, it is the project of the democratic reform of education for a school of quality and equality, to upgrade public education. This public school is undermining neoliberalism, when it even restores the story with the coupons today, not having the state responsibility for the functioning of the school, but supposedly there is the parent's choice to take the coupon, the price of the tuition, and to choose which public or private school he will take his children. At worst this means, as you can see, a complete dissolution of public and private education. In the 'better' - in many introductorys - it means opacity and corruption. Do you realize what public money means, which is entangled and exploited according to what they do not know, to take their children to one school or another? It's the logic he wants multi-speed schools. Not good schools, but schools which, for social reasons, will also be supported by schools which will be paid off for social reasons. We want all schools to be good, to be perfect. We do not want schools operating on the basis of Friedman's and Pinochet's recipes, that is to say, schools which degrade the public nature of the neighborhood's school and give profits to private education, a private education that the New Democracy wants to leave, without any legal control, without any supervision of the state, as the government says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u16	We're going to the rapporteurs. The first one in a row, Mr. Nikos Thebaeus, the rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. The fact is that in the debate in the committees, on the basis of this bill, a number of issues have been raised concerning the political and ideological mark of education, as the Minister said before. There are many who even now wonder why this bill is being discussed on 30 August. For a very simple reason, that we want to be fully ready for the first time for the first time, everywhere, at all levels on September 12th. As an instructor, I inform you that never in my professional career have there been schools that work on the 12th. Never! Most of the time, at best, schools worked after October 15. Otherwise, it was the students who took possessions and we had to make up for Easter hours! It is a hypocritical picture of the education we have been through for many years, and it is worthwhile - on the occasion of the debate in Parliament at the level of the Heads of State or Government - to have a debate, to open up a genuine dialogue on a number of issues mainly concerning primary and secondary education. There are too many issues that are "burning" at the moment, of course, dominating the student and the Greek parent. Let's come to the bill a little bit. In the draft "Agreements on Greek-language education..." we must say that the issue of Greek-language education is a very important point, because today the organisational presence of Greek-language and education and culture in the modern world and, more generally, in a humanitarian context, which promotes the democratic attitude of modern societies. We must say that the existing institutional framework has exhausted its potential because of the economic situation which leads the state to respond to excessive spending and obligations, due to developments in the educational needs and the educational requirements of modern societies - let us not forget that today there are Greeks of the fourth and fifth generations abroad - as well as the particular educational needs that are now being shaped in international context. We also need to see the urgent need to reconnect the consciences of the people of the world of Greek education and culture with their humanitarian and democratic content. The model of providing Greek education and Greek-language education abroad has been developed in recent years with diffuse and uncontrolled disposal practices of resources, education, money, without design, without vision, without control. It has generally failed to train the children of Greeks abroad and to meet their needs. It has led to the isolation of the Greeks of the diaspora, as it does not allow them to join the educational system of their country of establishment, keeping them even socially marginalized. Today, for these reasons, it is a great need for the proposed plan to redesign Greece's policy in the field of Greek-language education. We have to tell some truths. Today the Ministry of Education knows how many teachers exist in the country, at each level, in each school, how many students, if observed, what the material is. He knows all that. Well, in Germany, we do not know all of this, nor do we even know how many teachers teach. We do not know how many children they are, nor whether they are, the programmes or nothing. In other words, this well-known'myschool', this elementary, simple, it is time for children to be trained abroad as well. The draft law provides for the upgrading of activities in the field of Greek-language education, which also meets the needs of people of non-Greek origin, with a view to supporting Greek-language education. It is also foreseen that a representative of the Institute for Educational Policy will participate in the Permanent Ministerial Cooperation Committee and the chairman of the specialised Greek institution. There will be exchange programmes for pupils and teachers, with transnational agreements. We will proceed to the certificate of Greek legitimacy, which must be issued by a specialised body of the Ministry. A standing committee will be set up to monitor the work of higher education bodies. It is also laid down that the supervision of bilingual schools will apply and operate following an transnational agreement. The proposed arrangement defines in detail the formal and substantive qualifications for the selection and promotion of school coordinators and managers. The Committee for the Selection of Coordinators shall be enlarged by the placement of a member from the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic, in order to strengthen the role of the family. The proposed arrangement shall lay down for the coordination offices for the recruitment of educational counterparts or foreigners with a view to rationalising the expenditure on posting in countries with no applications for secondment. Finally, the posting scheme is streamlined, and it is clearly defined that the teaching staff should be three years on a payroll and two years on a payroll without any extension beyond five years. The second chapter of the bill refers to the arrangements for intercultural education. We must say that the consequences of the economic crisis and the acute refugee crisis, as it appears, were accompanied by a reappearance to some extent and the strengthening of extreme right-wing extremism and racist perceptions and a social fear within the Greek society. This phenomenon had its equivalent at the same time in education, with the characteristic symptom of increasing incidents of racist violence, of course, in a limited number of schools, as noted in the annual reports by the Child's Counsellor. Intercultural understanding can positively affect all students, students and all, if you like, the school community. Sensitivity and education on issues relating to diversity must be left to all the school population and society as a whole and must start from pre-school age. In important areas such as analytical programmes and other teaching materials, there is an urgent need for active intervention in specific teaching objects, particularly those which, if you like, cultivate society, the sciences of society and the development of humanism. We also need to move on to a socio-social support for migrants and refugees, pupils and pupils, thereby strengthening the process of training for refugees within the camps, as the Minister said before, but also in the surrounding schools, which should be served with the relevant educational staff. Moreover, the aim of intercultural education is that today's intercultural education schools should be transformed into experimental schools, linked both to other public schools in the country and to the HEIs. There is also a need for the establishment of the necessary staff posts, for these schools to work beyond teachers, with psychologists, social workers. The gradual conversion of educational units operating under Greek-language programme to date is regulated at all levels and eventually converted into bilingual schools. This perspective we believe can start from the school year 2018-2019. We come to the third chapter on higher education regulations. Here, from what we have understood, there is a common understanding: that it is clear that the legislature was never intended to exclude from the obligation to pay a percentage of the teachers who were practising or practicing a free profession by means of companies, because this would obviously be contrary to the principle of equality. By way of derogation, a 20-year limitation is set on the fees due to the PPECs and the possibility of contacting the DPEs is established in order to identify the revenues of the debtors and to calculate the amount of the debt. We come to the issue he has just mentioned - I would venture to say - the debate on committees, but also on the great article in the press and on the Internet: the arrangements for primary and secondary education. These regulations do nothing but try to restore constitutionality, legitimacy and align themselves with the provisions of the Revised European Social Charter. In fact, we are waiting here for someone to tell us whether these rules currently in force have something to do with European law, the Constitution and the European Social Charter. I have not heard it so far, and I hope no one dares to say that. It is clear and has been repeatedly decided, even at judicial level, that private education is not a single business. Legislative arrangements should ensure stable working relationships for private teachers. We believe that this is necessary for a more effective fulfilment of the purpose of education, which has become a constitutional issue, as a matter of public interest. It is well known to all of us - and we have heard them in the committees - that the positions of both the GSEE and OELE and the recent communication that we have seen today, which clearly says that private education should be passed on to the Ministry of Education. Black work and tax evasion must be combated through the compulsory declaration of all private schools' activities in the Ministry of Education. We must stop the phenomenon of undoubted redundancies of private teachers, as we have seen recently. The circumvention of the timetables, the distortion of ratings and the extradition of illegal evidence of formal qualifications, as the Citizens' Counsel denounced and as illustrated in concrete examples that have arrived at the courts, should be stopped. We need to see some issues modern. It is incalculable for the profits that school leaders have from the way they operate today and not only in terms of profits, but also in a number of issues relating to the lack of supervision in private schools. In the debate that took place we heard from the New Democracy's side the argument that those who consider their dismissal unjust should go to the courts. Well, does anyone today believe that a private teacher can withstand courts, appeals for four to five years and at the same time be unemployed? Is that a political response? I think, therefore, that some are simply escaping or believing in this society - even worse. What does the Democratic Reconciliation say to us? To return to the law of Diamantopoulou. Let's talk about it. What does Diamantopoulou say? What was the substance of the Diamantopoulou Act? On the outside, the reasoned dismissal. No, we all have to agree that redundancies must be justified and not abusive. This is where we take the view. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes, please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u18	Don't be derailed from now on, Mr. President. Hurry up, move towards the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u19	We therefore adopt the opinion of the Legal Council of State, in April 2012, signed by Mr Babiniotis, and stipulate that redundancies in the private sector should be controlled as to their legality and misuse by the Services Councils. That is what we are coming to adopt today. Accept it. The last issue concerns special education, a huge issue. The proposed amendment deals with urgent and serious issues of special education, which the Minister has previously developed. The right to equal participation of special educational staff in the associations of teachers and special education units is explicitly defined. The principle of equality relating to the staffing of special education structures shall be restored and the uniformity of public education shall be ensured. Clearly and uniformly for all primary and secondary education sectors, the terms and conditions for specialisation in EAEC shall be laid down. Provisions separating teachers from the creation of different sectors are repealed. This legislation redefines special education as an integral part of the educational system and not as an autonomous, parallel structure system, which lacks the necessary communication and creates issues of social dysfunction. The possibility of specializing teachers in special education, special education and general and vocational education, is clearly guaranteed. The institutional framework for vocational training is streamlined and a new type of vocational education is being set up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Comrade, it's been two minutes. Put a perfect one on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u21	The amendment on special education, along with the number of appointments for needs, opens up a new social and educational path in our country, trying to get the special education and social margins out of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, I will avoid calling you a admirer of the North Korean regime, in response to the excompensation you have put off to Dedicate Opposition, calling us "Pinochet fans". I prefer to talk about things and not about persons, because things are unpleasant and, day after day, they become even more unpleasant for you. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion of the Ministry of Education's draft law on Greek-language education takes place a few days after the announcement of the results of the pan-Hellenic examinations on admission to universities and TEIs. In the wake of the introduction to the HEIs of the country of students who wrote "1.5", the government is proclaiming to the press a change in the way they enter higher education. According to what flow from the Ministry of Education, the Government promotes "free access" to the departments of reduced interest. Instead of reintroducing the basis of '10', which prevented such degeneration in the introductory examinations, it abolishes them, apparently in order to make disciples, who now have the right to vote in the seventeen years of their age. But, as we know, free access to high-demand schools will not apply. Two standards, which will, in fact, lead to the degradation and depreciation of HEIs, which would freely write the students to their departments and, consequently, to the award of titles that are in danger of having no prestige in society and the labour market. Already the presidents of the TEIs, in submitting their disagreement on the abolition of the '10' basis for admission to the HEIs, pointed out in the Committee on Morphics the major problem created by the lagoon students who are imported but are unable to obtain a degree. They enter TEIs and universities, but, failing to respond to the level of study, they become eternal students. They create an illusion of success in their family, which, in the course of time, realizes the cost of delusion, because their children do not receive a degree and cannot complete their studies. You are going to expand with the so-called "free access", a choice that confirms the message of the minor effort you want to send to the Greek society. You appear as a philosophical measure to enter without an examination, arguing that you will be faced with the need for recourse to the schools. What you will achieve is to generalize the instruction for both students, so that they can obtain a degree. The Secretary General of the Ministry of Education spoke of baccalauréat. Where this is applied there is an intact system of examinations with a bank of themes. I would remind you that you have not only deferred and denounced the bank of issues that we have introduced, but that you have, as soon as you have taken over, speed up your dismantling. We believe that there should be an evaluation system for pupils' access to higher education. We are working in this direction. We are working on proposals that we will shortly be presenting to the Greek society with responsibility and not mocking ears, as the government does. However, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the draft law also takes place on the eve of the new school year, with changes which have been announced on the basis - supposedly - of the so-called 'national dialogue on education', a dialogue which the Minister referred to a moment ago and which took place with the relevant National Education Council to monitor as a spectator, a paradigm of dialogue, during which the Ministry submitted regulations, as a rule with late night amendments and legislative acts on issues that were supposed to be the subject of the dialogue. All reform baptised interventions are governed by the principle of levelling down. The abolition of the model schools was followed by the abolition of the full-day school with a single reformed programme, in an attempt to save human resources. This is because, despite the great and repeated assurances of the Minister of Education and this year there will be no appointments of permanent teachers in schools. Thus the abolition of the EGF with a reduction in teaching hours in a thousand thirty-seven grades, from thirty-five to thirty-three hours a week, translates into four thousand teachers less. The abolition of two thousand four hundred classic fulldays and their conversion into a single type throughout the entire day, with a nine-hour reduction in courses per week, entails nine other nine hundred younger teachers. In secondary education, the reduction in instruction hours from thirty-five to thirty-two per week creates a surplus of about four thousand teachers, while another five hundred will be saved by laboratory teaching arrangements. Obviously, Minister, if you have reduced more in teaching hours, you would have saved not nine and a half thousand teachers, as I have presented to you, but a lot more. It is, however, a challenge to baptize an upgrade of public schools. All this is at the expense of the quality of education, as in addition to increasing one-hour courses and, as teachers say, "an hour is nothing". Ladies and gentlemen, we are used to saying that Greeks are twice Greek. They care about the country and, whenever necessary, they lifted up the flag of our national rights. To them, who are Greeks and in Greece foreigners, the country has a duty to offer them the opportunity to learn their mother tongue. We believe that we should also give them the right to vote at their home, to have the right to speak of the place they love and many want to return, and how much more so when many have migrated into a search for better destiny. Speaking of Greek-language education, we must recognise the contribution of the Orthodox Church to the education of the Greeks and the maintenance of their national consciousness, especially in America and Australia. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion requires the conversion of the unmistakable Greek schools into bilinguals since 2018-2019. This is done at a time when there is an increase in migration flows to Germany from working parents who, they say, choose the city of their establishment and on the basis of the existence of a Greek school for the continuation of their children's studies. Of course, our aim should be to move to bilinguals. What bilingual, though, are we talking about in school? The existing bilingual schools in Germany at a level corresponding to the right, the so-called 'gesamtschule', the general schools, are one of the lowest levels of education, which their graduates do not have access to higher education. Our clear position is that the bilingual school we look forward to is the quality school, which gives access to both the HEIs of the host country and the national. In fact, I did not expect a left-wing government to allow our relatives' children to have the right to a dream for a better life than their parents, for opportunities in university education, but the only way out for them to be the lower school of apprenticeship. Ladies and gentlemen, in Greece of the crisis there seems to be money in the Ministry of Education. Thus, instead of promoting the posting of teachers in the schools of the household, teachers with no payroll, who are spouses of Greeks abroad or foreigners, puts a number of obstacles to the posting by way of a chemistry, at the expense of the state budget. I submit to the Minutes the memorandum from ELME VADE - Burtemberg. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And because, obviously, those you've got in mind don't have the skills they need, you're scouting them. Consequent to the doctrine of 'excellence is retreat', the government is downgrading the requirement of excellent language knowledge in the host country for the taking up of a position of training coordinators or school directors. Again, you will say, in relation to the Sivitanideus, where the requirement of foreign language knowledge has been completely abolished, in order to place the manager of your choice. Ladies and gentlemen, the most comprehensive provision in the bill under discussion, which shows the Government's obsessions and ideas with the private sector, is the regulation on private education. Instead of raising the public school by assessing educational structures, the government is attempting to "near" private school. Since he cannot appoint teachers to the public, despite the great words, he attempts to simulate teachers in private education. With the new regulation, the school will, in fact, not be able to safeguard the quality of the education services, when it will not be possible after two years to replace the teacher it considers not to perform. The good teacher, Minister, does not need any permanent clauses. It's an ad for school. The argument of dismissal of the older, because they cost more than the young teachers, was dismantled during the debate in the committee. The difference is only 150 euros a month, when the annual tuition is around 5,000 euros. What school would risk losing students by replacing renowned teachers? Moreover, if a teacher fails to complete his or her hours, he should be fully paid, with the school’s obligation to invent additional actions, to complete his or her hours. I don't know if you're really looking for class enemies or using education to give your right-wing exams to your party kernel, which resents after the signature of the left-hand memorial with the cutter. But you should know that the eighty-five thousand families who choose private education are not the wealthy of some colleges. They usually belong to the middle class, which tightens the belt to offer something better to her children. The argument that education is a public asset and should have a say in the Ministry of Education in the recruitment and redundancies of teachers is derelict. Public good is health, but the Minister for Health does not define the recruitment or redundancies of doctors in private hospitals, unless this is the first step. Instead of opening up the debate on the abolition of the state monopoly to higher education - it is likely that this opportunity of constitutional review will also be lost - you are attempting to "strangle" and private primary and secondary education. With regard to the amendment that you have incorporated for language schools and centres without any dialogue with the parties involved, as they have denounced, I am afraid that your exaggerated zeal to look good for the workers can produce the opposite results. The setting of full-time hours by twenty-one hours, when in public education the working hours are twenty-three hours to another seven hours for administrative tasks, will lead to an increase in special courses and undeclared work, eventually bringing locks to many district care centres. I am presenting in the Minutes the protest by the Federation of Educational Careers of Greece. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As regards the regulation on irregular diplomas awarded by TEs which did not function in legal terms, the Giannakou Act, when the issue was known, gave the opportunity to issue qualifications to schoolchildren from 2004 to 2008 with written examinations. With the arrangement that you bring, you remove all the time limitations, entangle this process. That's what we can't consent to. After the noise in 2008, no one has an alibi of ignorance. We are therefore not giving a forgiveness to those who have made use of these titles since 2008 and were appointed to the public. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need the two minutes you have given the previous colleague. This cannot be accepted by the New Democracy, which, as a government, with the current President of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, had the courage to send the matter to the College of Public Administration Inspectors. Despite our repeated questions, we have not received an answer from the Government about the 'dark' number of these civil servants, about how many of them were appointed to what Ministries they were appointed. Moreover, what will you do if someone fails to achieve the score by which he was appointed? Will appointment tables be fired and new ones created with the perpetrators of that period? At a time when unemployment and migration of young people with qualifications are eroding the regulation to date. Finally, Mr President, the way in which the government legislates, but also the importance of special education, is the amendment to special education. It brings equality, and even teachers who have absolutely no specialty in special education will henceforth be able to teach in it. It is rough, fragmented and comes essentially to place surplus teachers of general education in special education. I'm filing the record of Special Education Teachers' Association in Practicals. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons we are voting against in principle and we call on the government to stop experimenting in the field of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too. Mr Eliopoulos, rapporteur of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u25	For us it is disgraceful even the title of this bill: "Conregulations for Greek-language and intercultural education". The 'intercultural' will then be discussed, we will devote most of our speech. The Greek youth inside and outside Greece really needs Greek and national education and not just Greek, as you have become, over the past decades. Greek speakers are you, most of them in SYRIZA, who cover your friends, who desecrate daily churches, who interrupt the divine service, who beat ruthless ensembles because they serve the country, which burns the Greek flag and so many others. But if a prayer had been interrupted in a mosque, you would have burned Greece. You didn't make a single announcement about everything that's going on. And how do you get out, after these are your political friends all these years and cover up for them, to help you at difficult times, your para-state friends? You have forgotten, however, that you are not yet the 'grupe' of the leftists of 2%, but, unfortunately, you are the government of our country. You have become the guardian of the churches, not to be desecrated, and all this in Greece of 2016. You have no sign of national consciousness and you hate everything Greek and national. I shall start with an issue of education, but it does not concern this bill, but it concerns thousands of families who cannot send their children to nurseries because of the trapping of income criteria. You see here too, if you're a illegal immigrants and you're absolutely not saying any income, but you've invaded our country and you're working black, you can have priority in nursery schools. If you're a Greek and you declare, like all of us, all your incomes, you're out of the station. Approximately thirty - seven thousand children will be left out of nurseries this year, one out of three. There's another issue to get into today's bill. The so sensitive Minister of Friendship, in one and a half years, two years in government, SYRIZA, has not cared for even to feed the Greeks who prove themselves to have no livelihood. Coming to today's bill, we must first clarify what's a refugee and what's a illegal immigrant. Refugees were our grandparents who came oppressed by your Turkish friends after the Asia Minor Destruction. Those people who have been smuggling, smuggling, who have been invading our country in recent years do not come from war zones, none of them. That is why you cannot afford to drain the Greek taxpayer, the Greek citizen, in order to give abundant comfort to those who have invaded your country. In the great hot spot - we have been used to this word in recent years - there is this paradox, to use the Greek Armed Forces, the Greeks, the strains of the Armed Forces, to become "Philippines", to clean illegal immigrants. You want to teach them a letter. Learn how to live daily without Greeks being their employees. Where they are melted - as your Minister says - and they have Greek soldiers to serve them, to learn to organise themselves. If they want, they can organize themselves in their education. All this bill you have brought - I will say a few points only - shows that illegal immigrants have not brought them home for a short period of time, but you will certainly permanently and legalize them. So you hire eight hundred, perhaps more, teachers and even cultural mediators. On what criteria and qualifications, unknown only with the signature of the Minister. You create eight hundred fifty sections only for illegal immigrants within the hot spots, but also within the Greek schools. Only the cost of transporting them is 9.2 million. Hold the numbers a little. Huge costs for suitable educational materials, technical equipment, as provided for in the bill and in the Committee's reports. There is also provision for familiarizing them with new technologies. So we'll see Afghans traveling with iPad in Greek schools. You have put a number of universities all this time to work on making a report on the education of these children, which includes learning from foreign languages to the provision of psychosocial support. This committee has produced a report which you shared with us in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, but all Greeks must read it. They should read that only on the Diavatas - it is a multi-page report, which we will be making available in the near future - in the next few days - twelve employed persons are learning personal cleanliness from 9 a.m. to 17 a.m. in ten, as you say, refugees. In Schedule 10 ‘ACTIONAID’ officials. Members here in New Democracy know 'Actionaid'. The sister of Mr. Mitsotakis, your president, has it. Ten psychologists, two social workers and two translators from "ACTIONAID" are employed from 13.00 to 17.00 to teach them knitting - I transfer them from your report - and craftsmanship at Schisto. Officers and soldiers teach - in Shhsto again - English and Greek. In Lesvos - "ACTIONAID" and here - part-time employees teach paintings. Rejoice them! You want to approach local, he says, football teams to integrate these children into their potential. You will pass them without exams in higher education, while the Greek family "bleeds" to get her child to a school. There, of course, you will provide them, because they do not have the possibility, scholarships, food and housing. Actions are planned for parents, to convince them to send their children to these special sections, to inform and train teachers, pupils, parents, local authorities and societies about the history of refugees, their religion, their rights and their integration. This report has been produced by your own people. You didn't get any randoms. You got your own universities to make the exhibition. I stress that. You shared it to us. And your own report is being closed with something very interesting. The contribution, he says, of some NGOs is zero, despite their brave funding. Good for you! So people are divided into religions, doctrines and races. How many different departments are you going to make, Mr. Friend, in schools? You'd do the schools as you've done the hot spots. You're going to make it a battlefield. For tuberculosis, hepatitis, and other diseases, which we suddenly found to have reappeared in our homeland, you say nothing. There will also be a sacrifice for our children in your international dreams. They have understood Olympic fields, where Greek birds and camps should be sported. An entire education system will be engaged this year, from the early stages to higher education, with illegal immigrants. And another thing: Provedly these people don't care to integrate themselves into Western societies, they don't care about our way of life. They want to stay with their handkerchiefs and their own customs and customs. And the time will come - I hope never come - that religion will force them - because religion teaches them to hate anything other than religion - to blow up in our homeland where they find them. And don't say they're not all jihadists. One is enough to sow the panic. We have seen it happen in countries such as France and Belgium, which have been transferred and taught them, for example in France, French culture and French education. And they 'thank you', we all know how they get it back every three minutes. You are talking about intercultural education, but you are not telling us about substitutes. You told us, of course - but your speech was tragic as always - that the alternates will come from the beginning of the school year. You're lying, of course. The gaps that will exist at the beginning of the school year have already been made public. You continue to maintain a disgraceful measure for us, that of the substitutes. As many as are the needs of schools. So many should be the permanent teachers. We cannot expect proper education for our children by people who do not know if the new year will be hired to teach and where to teach. Of course, we are not talking about their wages that do not even meet their basic needs. And we are waiting with this regime for these people to offer serious education! That's laughing! From what we learn, there are parents in schools who say "how many substitutes will the school have this year?" to make their choice at which school their children will go. We're coming to New Democracy. The new Republic's rapporteur, just before, suddenly, in his report and while he had said nothing about illegal immigrants, said: 'To tell you and what is the most criminal article in this bill'. So I expect him to say that it will be the article that gives unlimited jurisdiction to the Minister for Illegal Immigrants in schools. Instead, the New Democracy rapporteur told us a number of airplanes about what burns him the most, as the neoliberal formula burns - because this is the New Democracy - for private schools. The New Democracy did not say in the seventeen minutes that its rapporteur spoke about, nor a word about the twenty-two thousand illegal immigrants that our schools will be flooding this year. And, of course, a neoliberal about it? The New Democracy will vote by hand and by foot, as it did with mosques and as it does in so many other bills, putting back on the National Protestant Government of SYRIZA. Let us not forget, of course, that the illegal immigrants for a neoliberal structure such as New Democracy are also a business. And it proves it with deeds. I told you before that the sister of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has 'ACTIONAID', which is, of course, controlled by the French financial services, from what we have learned, but is not controlled by the Greek services. Of course, if your name is Mitsotakis, the Greek authorities will slowly not look for you! At least, gentlemen of the New Democracy, Phile, Tsipras and their parrot had declared before they came out that they are internationalists, that they are left-wing, that they do not care about anything national. In fact, they are reluctant - and that is why they are doing so - to see our fanatics with the addict becoming slaves to illegal immigrants. But you are even worse because you are wearing the patriot's sheep. And wearing this probation, you might convince them or want them to convince them that you represent something right, something national. Fortunately, these words have already been removed by your President. Remove the Genocide of the Pontius, reduce the teaching hours of the ancient Greeks, at the same time as France incorporates the ancient Greeks in its schools, try to equate everything to the bottom, whatever education our children receive, you try to degrade it. In fact, the friend yesterday at an event in Grammos told us he was going to change the books about the gang war. In a country where, unfortunately, the losers have written it, you do not get all these lies and the inaccuracies that books write, but you want to change it even more, make it even more international. You can put in and excerpts for your "father" for Stalin, for Lenin, for all of them and from the books of history and put them in Religious, since you have him as a god! History does not, of course, change what you do, no matter how much you try to falsify it. We therefore represent the Greek people and tell him that all these methods of undocumented anti-nationalist minister are horrific preparatory actions for the perpetuation and assimilation of enormous waves of foreigners, completely incompatible with the Greek way of life with our customs and traditions. Continuous benefits to children of illegal immigrants are uncovered acts of establishment within our homeland of thousands of foreigners. They didn't ask anyone, they don't account anywhere. They're destroying you with a methodology, pressing on your humanitarian feelings. Don't let them disappear you and your children and the future of our country. With this unfused bill, it is not only the continuity of Greek education that is at stake. Infiltration of children of illegal immigrants in schools is the first step. Then the extinction of the Greek people. Demographic, subgenital and mass assimilation of foreigners undeniably lead Greece to death. Greece, however - take the hampari - belongs to the Greeks. It's over and over!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, I would like to put forward some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u28	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u29	I am making a legislative improvement on the issue with the PPE and another on the issues of private education for aggregation of private schools with schools and with centres of foreign languages that are not permitted, as well as issues relating to other issues relating to private education. It is of secondary importance. I'm tabling them for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Minister. Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos from the Democratic Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, shortly after the results of the pan-Hellenic examinations, let me congratulate those who are successful and wish them the best. However, I would also like to wish those who did not succeed in continuing to fight and success will come. He'll be here in the next few minutes. I would also like to congratulate the observers, the ratings, the officials of the Ministry of Education and all those involved in the high sense of responsibility and duty in bad times. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of Greek-language education abroad is central to the organized presence of the Greek language, education and culture in the modern world, to support the Greeks of the Diaspora, to maintain the linguistic and cultural link between Greece and Greece. The intervention of the Greek State to date in the above areas was based on an institutional bipolar, in the legal framework of the 1970s, by Decree-Laws 695/1970 and 154/1973, which established and organised the establishment and operation of purely Greek schools abroad and in particular in Germany and, secondly, on the political findings and assumptions of the 1970s, when the above institutional framework was supplemented by Law 2413/1996. With this emphasis was placed on strengthening the Greek communities abroad, as well as the organizations of the Diaspora, with resources, educational staff and full educational planning. Thus, our cultural and, above all, our linguistic heritage was preserved. Then, the economic, social and cultural reality, the existence of Greeks of the fourth and fifth generations abroad, their educational needs, as shaped in the context of the societies that live, have led to the need to modernise the institutional framework. Then I would remind you that the PASOK Government with Mrs Fofi Gennimata's Minister made a legislative intervention with Mr. 4027/11. This has therefore led to responding to the needs and requirements of Greek-language and intercultural education in a modern and scientifically documented way. In other words, ladies and gentlemen of the government, as in the research bill, you are on mapped paths in this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on Greek-language and intercultural education, the state is aware of the fact of multiethnicity and multiculturality. Intercultural philosophy does not regard refugees as a problem or, of course, an annoying factor. It includes them on an equal footing in education procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is an arrangement for Law 4027/2011. There is therefore a recast of the report by Nos 2413/96 and 4027/11, without any substantial changes and improvements. I would say first of all that it deals mainly with administrative issues, without perspective, without vision, without a strategy, without real step forwards. The issues of intercultural or anti-racist education are contained in five articles, namely Articles 20-25. However, it does not specify what is intercultural education, as does what model of education promotes the integration of all-language pupils and refugees. Will the intercultural education programmes carried out by the universities in the country continue? That's a question. Also, despite the announcements made by the Minister - on 10/2/2015 - on anti-racist education, for Roma, for foreign schools, for the upgrading of the education of the Muslims in Thrace, we do not see proposals that are worthwhile and substantiated. No intercultural education programmes are being implemented, no Roma policy is described. The Roma once again are on the sidelines. Why this abandonment of the Roma, Minister? And these kids are our children. Ladies and gentlemen, these children need education, and we have to give it to them. And I come to Article 22, where there is an inconsistency here too. It transforms schools of intercultural education into experimental schools of intercultural education. At this point, I would like to remind the Members of the House of the Couple of Confederals of Confederals of the formerly criticised schools, which I would remind them were called 'Getto Schools'. Today it's all forgotten. Of course, the conclusions are yours! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have noted that in order to focus on the debate and indeed on the core of the particular bill concerning the Greeks and Hellenism and the adaptation of the educational system of our country to the new challenges posed by the current of refugees, articles and amendments which, Minister, require substantial dialogue and discussion in depth should be withdrawn. That is why, Minister, we have asked for Article 28 to be withdrawn. We didn't do it to hide, but to come as a bill and not to hide as an article in a bill. We did so to discuss and consult in depth and not hide, as I said before, in an article. Because, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who does not have a job hides himself, who does not have an opinion, who does not have a proposal. It hides anyone who does not have to support the working rights of private teachers, who does not care about the content of the education provided to Greek young people in private schools. The struggles of private teachers and their demands have been hospitable to the PASOK governments since the early 1980s. A series of legislative interventions which you yourself mentioned positively began under the Minister of Government and People of PASOK. We, Minister, support the view that private education should be supervised by the Ministry of Education. After all, when it is administratively in the Directorates of Education and pedagogics it is supervised by school advisors, there is nothing else to be done. Regularity is clear and our position is clear. We condemn and condemn any irregularity and falsification of titles and dismissals, any ratings and examinations that are not inconsistent and objective. In education there is no doctrine "what you pay, you get". In this context of regularity, with respect for the working rights of teachers, the decisions of the bodies of the private schools administration, with supervision and control by the Ministry of Education, we, with a number of laws such as Law 1531/1983, Law 1566/1985, Law 2986/2002 and, of course, Law 3848/2010, have formed a framework that ensures the working rights of teachers with the necessary, of course, state supervision by the Ministry of Education. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of any regulation on private schools must be to improve the education provided. Indicative of the deregulation caused by Article 28 is that paragraph 3 provides for the termination of an indefinite contract of education on account of the abolition of the departments or classes, which, in essence, Minister, is repealed in paragraph 13. Ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Assent proposes the reintroduction of provisions 3848/2010 and I have heard the honourable Member mention whether the dismissal is justified or not. I would remind you that in the debate that we had in the committee, it was heard by all the institutions that the redundancies at the time are mitigating at one hand's fingers. So let this be recorded. Ladies and gentlemen, employment issues in private schools were one thing. I think that L.3848/2010 actually shows solutions and results. Minister, with Law 3848/2010 and its implementation by the Councils at regional and central level, there was no sack of redundancies, there was no contract notice accepted without justification. Mr President, today we are living in an unprecedented situation. On the one hand, the amendment on special education and, on the other, the working hostage of the thousands of four hundred teachers who effectively resigned to receive the pension, who have to return because of errors in the service because they are not entitled to a pension. I would like you, Minister, to see this in detail, more extensively and immediately. The provisions of Articles 33 of L.4386/2016 and 239 of L.4389/2016 would say that they are waste. They lead to despair for teachers. It is therefore necessary to regulate the matter directly. And when we say immediately, Minister, we mean tomorrow. In relation to the amendment to the special treatment, Mr Minister, we are asking for it to be withdrawn. The amendment crushes both disabled pupils and special educational needs, as well as teachers of special education for the IP61 and IP71. The fragmentation of legislation continues without a national dialogue on an integrated legislative proposal - I would say - with the participation of all stakeholders. In Article 2 of the amendment, unfortunately, we are witnessing a setback in terms of staffing the structures of special education and the way in which training staff are managed. When the basic degree, Minister, was, essentially, always the qualification of appointment, what is being done today? It's downgrading. But the quality of education is also downgraded. That is how we can place it in the specific education treatment without - I would say - no additional qualifications. Ladies and gentlemen, the needs of special education have been covered for many years by assistants from the graduates of the Volos and Macedonian Special Education Departments, teachers and nursery teachers, IP71 and IP61. In no other educational sector is such a depreciation of the basic degree, namely that no one should be appointed with their basic degree, but that someone should be given his postgraduate status or a number of quarters of four hundred hours in special treatment. Minister, with the arrangements for the full-day school, with the abolition of EPAs, with the five thousand fewer entrys in kindergartens, I would say that you have created surpluses for teachers and nurseries, which you are seeking to absorb in every way, and with the reduction in secondary education from thirty-five to thirty-two hours. And here we have four thousand fewer jobs. The easy solution is, therefore, to staff the special schools and the integration departments with the surpluses at the expense of the quality of the education provided. The special treatment should be supported by permanent appointments immediately. It's our debt to children with special skills. It's the minimum of support for families who give their own race. The support for special education gives us, ladies and gentlemen, quality in our democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill could be broadly accepted. The Minister, however, surprised us with Article 28 and the amendment on special treatment. We call on the Minister to come to the table of dialogue and consensus. In addition, education is not available for surprises. It goes beyond the parties and - I would say - the sterile controversy. But dialogue, Minister, wants two. And the government finally has to come to him. We were expecting this dialogue, but we still did not see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, too. Mr Stavros Tassos, rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, I would like the floor to put forward a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u34	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u35	I'm sorry, Mr. Comrade. First of all, there is a legislative improvement on the issue - and you will see it now - of the abuse of private teachers, that they can judge on this issue the service councils on cases that concern the previous year. But only on the issue of abuse.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u36	Secondly, I would like to say very briefly, because impressions are being created, that the publications on the pension of teachers are inaccurate. It is not about a thousand five hundred who applied for retirement this year, but about a hundred, and thirty people. The Ministry's proposal, which was passed by parliament, was that those who have applied to leave and retire May, such as legislation, will leave with the old pension scheme, provided that 31/8 teachers are leaving their service. Those who have not completed up to 4-5-2016 the required pension conditions and who complete them later, it is clear that they are not currently able to leave and are considered from 5-5-16 to 31-8-16 to a pension service. I repeat, it is not about the thousands of five hundred mentioned. It's about a hundred, a hundred twenty teachers. This issue will be dealt with, but for their own class and pension security, we have enabled the request to be withdrawn by 31-8-16. I repeat, this is a hundred and twenty teachers and not a thousand five hundred, all of whom are retired this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u37	Thank you. Mr. Tassos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u38	We're calling everybody back. For those who have applied for retirement, I'd like you to see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u39	I repeat that for those who have applied for retirement until 4-5-2016 and on that date meet the required pension conditions, there is no problem. Those who did not meet the pension conditions on 4-5-2016 and counted to meet them on 31/8, as you know, they leave teachers and typically from schools, are not covered. That percentage of people is small. They're just a hundred, a hundred thirty persons at most in total of a thousand five hundred. The Ministry's effort was and is to retire teachers with the old regime. It was an injustice because people had to come out 31/8, take them under the new regime. For the thousands of two hundred - a thousand three hundred we have achieved and retired with the old regime. For a hundred, thirty we did not do so because there was a reaction from the General Accounting Office of the State, which invokes the case law of the Court of Auditors in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u40	Thank you. Mr. Tassos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law entitled 'Conregulations on Greek-language education, intercultural education and other provisions', such as each bill, has its ideological, political and economic dimension. Ideologically it moves in the metaphysical and idealistic perception of the world, where we have accidentally accumulation of things and phenomena, unconnected and isolated from each other, which are in constant condition. The consequence of this basic position is that there is no objective reality and that the conscience of each of us determines its own and its reality. On the opposite side is dialectic and materialistic concept, where things and phenomena are connected to one whole, dependent on one another with cause and effect relationships, in continuous movement and change and transition from simple to complex both to nature and to society. The material world, the reality, is independent of the conscience of man and his conscience is only the reflection of this united and a reality, which is independent of his will and which can change with his own will, but without being able to abolish the objective laws of its movement. To bring an example to understand what we say, if the water leaves it uncontrolled, obeying the law of gravity, it will flood a plain. If you can channel it, you'll direct it where you want, without, of course, abolishing the law of gravity. The consequence of the metaphysical and idealistic concept is autonomy and individualism, both at the school level and at the level of the student, where the student is educated and socialized to act in an individual way, through individual learning, examination and rating processes, so as to create his own virtual reality. A reality that eventually leads him to confusion, alienation, passivity, indifference and fleeing to the artificial paradigms of drugs. Instead, the collective and unified processes that produce the collaboration and teamwork between students arm them with racing and optimism, aiming first to know and then to change the objective reality. It's the identity of dialectical and materialistic perception. In this context, and in Chapter I, which relates to Greek-language education, together with the political and economic dimension of the bill, there is no single system of the Greek state for Greek-language education, but the system is fully adapted to the needs of the market, depending on the host country and its educational system. The door opens wide for private bodies, for example NGO, church, communities, institutions, clubs, unions and legal or legal persons to enter into Greek-language education, where everyone will promote their reality. History will be rewritten, communism equates with fascism, the poison of anti-communism, which is the official ideology of the European Union, will infect the mind of young people. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Adapting to the needs of capital goes through the entire bill, especially as regards the economic dimension. Despite the fact that in recent years Greek-language education abroad has suffered a large decline and measures tragic deficiencies in teachers, despite the fact that Greek immigrants abroad have increased, the bill does not bring any optimism to reverse this climate, since in Article 5, it says that the Ministry of Education can support Greek-language education units abroad, which means that the Ministry, i.e. the Greek State, does not have the obligation to finance and operate these units, but it can help them - and not - to save resources for creditors and capital make investments. In order to strengthen the integrated and non-integrated sections of Greek language, it sets strict standards and requires that students who follow them be over fifty, the six students per grade, and their absenteeisms do not exceed 20% of their teaching hours. In this logic of saving resources for capital, distance learning is also moving, especially for the Greek language and culture departments, which are expected to be able to operate in a local HEI and which offer distance learning. So they save teachers. Even if they are not part of Greek HEIs, it is generally foreseen that the teaching can also be done remotely, using new technologies, information and communication, especially in cases of fewer sections in remote areas, where it is impossible to get a teacher. No one, of course, can oppose the use of achievements in science and technology in education. This, however, cannot replace the teacher’s physical presence, but can facilitate him and make him more effective in his work. It is also recommended - and rightly so - a certificate of Hellenism, for which the conditions and conditions for its acquisition and the examination procedure will be laid down by a Presidential Decree. For teachers posted to foreign schools with a salary in Greece and a salary abroad, there is provision, among other things, for. The payroll is in direct connection with the provision of teaching work. If for any reason the teacher during his secondment does not provide teaching work beyond the two-month period, the payroll shall be interrupted to resume when he takes up his duties again. In other words, if a seconded teacher, for example in Germany or Britain, is seriously ill and needs to be treated for more than two months, he will be forced to interrupt his secondment and return to Greece. Generally speaking, the bill makes an effort to tighten up and monitor posting and payroll, effectively continuing the policies of the previous governments, while, of course, the lack of teachers in foreign schools are large and the wage is necessary in countries with a high cost of living. In Chapter II on the necessity of intercultural education in our country, the bill stipulates that intercultural schools set up by Law 1566/1985 are transformed into experimental schools of intercultural education and develop in collaboration with the AEI experimental teaching methods. It is also stated that by decision of the Ministers for Education and Finance, new experimental intercultural schools may be set up or common schools transformed into such classes, reception classes in common schools and so on. We agree with most of this article, but we think that declarations and genealogies are not enough. Immediate measures are needed, not just in education. In Chapter C on higher education regulations, the parallel work of teachers in HEIs and researchers is again legitimised. The JRC's position on many occasions is contrary to the parallel work and to the permanent, stable and exclusive employment of teachers and researchers. At the same time, it extends the business of the International University of Greece - fully acting as anonymity company and the possibilities of ASPAITE - the High School of Education and Education - to sell training programs, which are related to the development of the removal of teaching competence from the diplomas of a number of schools and objects, including those taught in ASPATE. That is, while pedagogical competence was within the degree, now goes out and will have to be expensive for students and students in order to secure it. Chapter IV deals with arrangements for primary and secondary education. Article 28 - private education regulations - does not change the substance of private education, which treats education as a commodity for sale for profit and students as customers and much more does not express the opposition of the government to private education. The opposite is true. She thinks she's perfectly legitimate. These regulations, as well as the late amendment on language schools and centres, in no case - and we stress this - do not overturn the general situation for workers, especially at a time when new slaughter and attack on workers are being prepared. The JRC, taking into account the fact that, even with the above arrangements, certain workers' requests are met, will vote in favour of Articles 28 and 29, at the same time calling on the workers in private schools and in schools in any case to hold a small basket. From the provisions of Article 28, despite the fact that a number of requests are made, for example in relation to the redundancies scheme, steps are taken back, not only from the first version of the law from the Balta period. For example, there is no provision for the possibility of concluding contracts higher than that in force in the public sector, an increase in working hours in foreign language schools and others, but even in the most recent version of the law Friends who saw the light of publicity a few months ago, for example, the provision prohibiting the establishment of schools in private schools is deleted. We are asking the government and the Ministry of Education that makes it clear that it puts the redundancies regime into order, because it brings this regulation into effect in August, when dozens of workers from private schools have already been made redundant and any positive regulations do not cover them. Really, does the government's measures for cuts in the high school schedule mean redundancies in private schools? Why are the regulations on nurseries coming in the form of an amendment, and why are the clear permits of certain workers in the previous article now being deleted? The government's whole course on the issue of private education is a continuous adaptation to the positions and demands of employers. This is the truth, despite the disorientating argument in electronics and printed media with excesses and publications of the government and school leaders. The demolition of insurance rights goes hand in hand with the worsening of industrial relations. We have no illusion that with a bill which makes the justification for dismissal compulsory workers are guaranteed. The storm of the upcoming labour measures must be alarming. Smashing the conquests of previous years and labour rights is a strategic choice for the European Union and the Government. Any regular manoeuvres serve exactly this choice. Today's successes will surely turn into a painful retreat, unless there is a fight movement that will put a brake on anti-population policy as a whole. With the amendment on special education and training, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government comes to give a new blow to the long-standing area of special education. Following the policy of previous governments, it legislates not on the basis of the needs of children with special educational needs, but on the basis of memoranda and in the light of the strengths of the economy serving business profits. The Ministry, on the pretext of making the best use of existing human resources, of directly serving the needs of the students and of ensuring the proper functioning of the OSCE, of special education and training structures, as stated in the explanatory statement, is, in fact, downgrading, not to say, the specific teaching skills required in the course, promoting the teaching of a Latin card and the slap of colleagues regardless of scientific training. Following the explanatory statement, it makes it even clear how these needs will be met. In the article, we read that if there is a failure to fulfil the gaps, teachers are available without any of the above qualifications or characteristics, degrees, postgraduate studies or further training in special education. These teachers are obliged to participate in training and specialization programmes. According to the Minister, there are some hours of seminars to be able to cope with the difficult and complex work of the tutor. Really, what do the special education classes teach students four years, when the Ministry can, at a global originality, say, and create special education teachers within hours of a rapid seminar? The amendment is a return to the 1980s, when in order to meet the needs of special education and training, teachers were transferred or seconded to it without any prerequisite. While then it was self-evident to do this, since there were no university departments or teachers specializing in this special treatment, history is repeated as a farce, at a time when there are thousands of undetermined teachers specializing in special education. The amendment enables teachers in general education to be placed in special treatment which have nothing to do with the subject. In short, instead of the Ministry of Education to go ahead with the recruitment of permanent educational staff, which has become a great need for special education today, it is announcing the anointing and unemployment of teachers of special education and the violent placement of teachers in general education that will be abundant. Finally, the qualifications set out in the amendment to teachers show the unacceptable and unscientific way that the government and the Ministry of Education understand specific education. We first call for the immediate withdrawal of the unacceptable amendment by the Ministry of Education on specific education and training issues, except for the paragraph on the recognition of all staff at special education units to participate equally in their association. For all these reasons, we cannot vote in favour of this bill in principle. We are only voting 'at present' because it meets even a number of demands from workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u42	The special speaker from the river, Mr Mavrotas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today we are discussing in plenary the draft legislation on Greek-language education, intercultural education and other provisions. Although the first two elements of the title are of major importance, the debate focused on the other provisions. We in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media have said that the time has come to consult the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media. Amendments are being tabled against strips. We've got nine so far. Our request has not been accepted. So today we are seeing controversial amendments concerning special education without debated in the Committee on Morphics, without having listened to the institutions in this House. Why? The justification for having given sufficient consideration to the matter in the electronic consultation is unsatisfactory. Then let us make all the bills in electronic consultation without committees. What do we want with them? They say it's urgent because the year starts. Didn't we know that early in August when we discussed the entire bill in the committees so that the provisions on special education would come? Over the last hundred and eighty years, we know the school year starts in September. Was the government surprised? It came in August and after the debate had ended in the committees on the rest of the bill, which brought things that were surprising, for example, to the issue of mathematics. I'm not sure if it's bad design or beans. I'm also not sure which one is worse. In Chapter I, on Greek-language education, we have no objections to the majority of the provisions, only to the treatment of teachers who have already adapted their lives to a specific scheme which even relieves the state of pay costs, etc. That is where we object. The abuse of this phenomenon could be combated by the state by systematic checks and evaluation rather than by legislative provisions. In Chapter II, for intercultural education, it appears that the government discovered the charm of experimental schools, the ones it degraded last year with its arrangements. Intercultural schools will therefore work as experimental for all other primary and secondary schools, which will be quasi-cultural. The point is, however, that in experimental schools he also serves staff of increased qualifications, which in this bill is not described, is simply a minister's decision what these increased qualifications will be. However, this was not the case in Law 3966/2011 on experimentals, where there was a detailed description. Let's go to Chapter III on higher education arrangements, starting with Article 27. There seems to be a matter with the participation of teachers in companies, as the interpretation of the rules is called into question. In particular, I read in the report of the Scientific Agency for Article 27 on page 6 on 'In this sense, it does not seem that the proposed arrangement, in the part concerning teachers and lecturers who, until the entry into force of the present legislation, were engaged in a free profession with a company and not as an individual professional activity', is incompatible with the Constitution. Perhaps, then, the government should see this one again. Let's go to Chapter IV and to the famous article 28 on private education. To start by saying that neither I went to private school nor my children, so that I might have a special relationship with private education, as others might have. Private schools have the following specific features. They are business, but they are also public-sector schools. A modus vivendi must therefore be found, a golden incision to where the state is intervening. To enable each school to develop activities, to create competitive advantages, but without escapeing the restrictions imposed by the law and which must be the same for all. So every businessman must be of the utmost importance to his school's intellectual potential and must be able to choose and modify it within specific frameworks. On the other hand, the teacher should have the freedom to exercise his duties conscientiously, without prejudice to the fear of dismissal when he does his job well, that is to say, that he will not be vulnerable to any pressures on property to make discounts on his education ethics. But how does the owner's freedom to assess and choose his staff with the job security of the good teacher? In our opinion, putting insurance records. Dismissal of a teacher cannot be abusive. On the other hand, all redundancies cannot be regarded as abusive. Who's gonna judge that? On the basis of the bill you are presenting, it is PYPSPE and PYSTE, that is, colleagues of teachers. As you can see, these non-discriminatory bodies, as provided for in Article 24 in the last paragraph of the revised European Social Charter, as incorporated into Greek legislation with Law 4359/2016, where he spoke of non-discriminatory bodies. For this reason, Potami has tabled an amendment, based on which, instead of PYPSPE and PYPSDE, there will be a five-member committee composed of a representative of the Ministry, a representative of the owners, a representative of OELE and two university professors specializing in labour law and the other in teaching. The last two will come with a draw. The committee will therefore meet four times a year and exceptionally whenever necessary and will decide by a majority whether or not the redundancies of teachers are abusive. We believe that this is a compromise and a fair solution to justify redundancies or not. All sides will be represented and the experts' opinion will also be heard. If the Government considers this solution to be right and fair, as the Minister in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media has already mentioned, it should adopt it, without hiding behind its finger, by making the adoption by other parties as a precondition. The content of a proposal and not its paternity should be the main criterion for accepting it. The logic of 'if it is not my solution, I do not adopt it' or 'if not everyone accepts it, I do not adopt it' cancels the essence of the parliamentary procedure, where we are supposed to seek the best legislative solutions through dialogue, debate and compromises. If we are to make parallel monologues, and at the end of the day the majority vote for what it proposes, we are still far from effective legislation. We are going on the subject of the special education amendment. For the procedure I said at the outset that it should have come with the body of the bill and that there should also be time for discussion in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media to listen to the institutions, etc. Let's move on to the point now. Apart from workers' arguments and claims, the main criterion is to provide all children in these schools with appropriate training. In other words, it is a question of quantification - all children - but also of quality education. Without having sufficient time to consider the subject from all sides, it is certain that both studies and experience play an important role in the suitability of the teacher. Finally, who is appropriate will show a real evaluation of the educational work of each teacher. If there is no such assessment, it seems reasonable that those who studied four years should have priority over others who studied a year or a half or just did some seminars. Also to place an instructor in the training structures without qualifications, only to cover the job, or because in general education he is overnumbered, underestimates these children and their families. The issue should not be taken into account by the IP70 against the IP71s and the IP60 against the IP61s, but by the interests of the children. This should be judged and this always passes through a substantial evaluation, a key word. It goes without saying that in the schools of blind and deaf, we consider it necessary and not optional to know the teacher write Braille and sign language. The 'priority' mentioned in the amendment is not enough, as it leaves the possibility of being placed open and of teachers not knowing how to communicate with these children, so you understand what lessons can be learned at that time. If there are not enough teachers with the qualifications required, incentivise their training before they are placed in these schools. In addition, special vocational training workshops are school units belonging to secondary education and are a separate type of schools in which compulsory education is completed. They must be in addition to administrative and teaching integration in secondary education, i.e. giving titles with a bearing on them. For all these reasons, and because many and sensitive issues are raised, we consider that the debate on the consultation that has taken place has not been exhausted, and if these are to be implemented in 2017-2018, that is, next school year, we have all the time in front of us, and that is why we are calling for the withdrawal of the amendment, so that we have the time to discuss and have the best possible solution. We will talk about the other amendments tomorrow, as will Article 30 on care centres. It appears that further consultation was needed that did not exist. We were told this and the representatives of the OSCE, who were actually surprised when they came as an amendment to the Committee on Morphic Affairs. Nor is it right for the various teachers to work for 4,6 euros an hour or not to take overtime, but it is not right for them to have a private firm that pays them while they are not working on school holidays. This will eventually lead all care-owners to only take staff with a block and not make normal recruitments or lead people to the particulars, i.e. essentially black misconduct. However, we will see this tomorrow more specifically, as well as the amendment to the ELIGHTEC, for the Greek Institute for Research and Innovation that has come. Finally something timely. Now that schools open up, it's a good opportunity to see where teachers are working out of class. We were asked by the Minister for the number of posted teachers in the party and Members at the end of July with a letter sent to the parties. We replied to him on 29 July as a Potami that we have six seconded teachers, one in the party and five in Members' offices. We asked him, in the letter we sent, to publish the information on the seconded parties. In the end, however, only the secondments of the river and of the PASOK, which were twelve teachers, were published, because they were the only two parties that responded to the deadline of 10 August. The chord of the case is that he responded to part of the Opposition in the Minister's letter and did not respond to the ruling parties in the Minister's demand. Why is that? Should these not give a good example, or is it not a good example of these things? We therefore expect the Minister to publish the details of the seconded parties as well as the other parties, because he knows them. He also asked the Ministry of Interior, so it would be useful to have transparency and to know them. To close, let me have some more general thoughts. The major changes that education needs are a matter of great consensuality. However, conflicts such as the ones we have been following many times in the House are more than compositions. But let us try the hard way, the one in the composition. It's harder to make compromises that will take you forward than to stick to a convenient immobility. But all of this - and I repeat - wants normal parliamentary procedures to mitigate disputes, give time for fermentation and composition. On the contrary, parliamentary surprises exacerbate differences and remove any consensus. There are, in fact, amendments that are urgent and others that are not. But they are taking advantage of the fast track process, so that any objections are not heard. Perhaps we should finally consider whether the amendments should be accepted by a qualified majority. Food for thought on Parliament's Rules of Procedure. We will also expect tomorrow's debate and the fermentation which we hope will take place, with the hope that we will not have a rain of unrelated amendments tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. The reason is the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Mr. Zouraris.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u45	My respects, Your Honor. As the hymnographer "Stiffs of Insects, unreservedly praised in, as tripartite of the best troika we've had for so many years", because thankfully we have your intervention as the first minister on education. The truth is, I thought this after the debate we had in committee: now that we have abolished the spirits, you are not a 'prior to' you are a 'pilot' and it is not called a 'declaration'. Why? Because with the clarification you have made of the nine thousand per cent fully absorbed - with the ambiguous misunderstanding about the two thousand two-two-two-two-two-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-bundred-bundred-bundred-bundred-bundred-bundred-bundred-bundred-bundred-hundred-life-hundred-life-bundred-do, I think I think this issue has been settled. In addition, of course, I would like to make it up to you again by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, because I remember the following: I as a semi-drug from a millennium - I forgot to say to you, and I apologise for that to all three of you - that when I started to say what is going to happen about education, abroad, so I forgot to tell you that you received these books. These books have been made - I now say in plenary - with the 2006 reform. Looks like the order was starting in 2002. Training was carried out in 2004. So, and because of negligence, you continued. But that's why we need to see this slowly. Because I see now in Article 4 and, in particular, paragraph 4 of that article, that the timetable is very correct, that is to say, the Ministry for Reverends of the Earth, the Ouagadougou of Burkina Faso, etc., which are my students and possibly some of my spiritual children. The subject of the contents remains incomplete again. So if they start on September 6, now or later, what will these children teach? I saw from the SYRIZA rapporteur who quite rightly said that for example in Germany we do not know who we have as teachers, so obviously we do not know what they are teaching. The problem is now. We are talking about the Greek culture and Greek-language and Greek-modernism. Is it possible to teach our children - let's say - of the 5th Avenue or of the Valparaic of Chile - which I also have people there - in the first grade, the Lefakis? Three Syrians proceeded with the Spitha and found the constellation of the intangible, etc. This arrowbology is certain that it may be tolerated in Greece, because with "educationalism" it is said that children should learn Greek from everyday life etc. You know, Minister, how did he say this thing of Lefakis, the great Aristides Vourlakis in Brahasi Crete, or the famous Fricantella, the witch who didn't love carols? But is there a kid on the planet who doesn't love carols? And is it teaching material for the Greek children here and the Greek children there, telling them that there's a Fricantella witch who doesn't love carols? Do you know what he was saying about this famous pedagogical intervention, which means the directity of pedagogicalism? "They deported to Cayabis the aloni." This is Lefakis, this is the terrible situation with the "maize macaroni". So it should slowly, slowly through a committee and the existing one and with the Institute for Education Policy temporarily replace some pages of these abortions with interventions, as we have always done in school. And we will say that the forty - two municipal songs that existed in V, F', I' and II'm high in both the tongue and the assistants will come back. A nine - year - old child can't learn cooking recipes. He should learn that at his sixteen or seventeen years. And in any case, do we really believe that in Ouagadougou, our people want, without a recipe for 'Maced macaroni'? You know what they want? They want, but "How now we would live without the graves of our ancestors, warriors, or wise men" - Yannis Richos 20 March 1968 - where he is captive again, a prisoner in Lero. That's what he writes, that's what we have to teach. How would we live without the graves of the ancestors, above all, of our warriors or wise ones? Yannis Richos. Well, mercy, your three-and-a-half-year-old ministry. Slowly put the replacement back on. We can put small texts. It's ten to fifteen. Take Sarado Kargakos, take Helen Economou and some more will give you three - four small texts of Greek-Greek. For example, may you not put those fifteen rows in the days of 1940, which Seferis describes how he learned that dishonourable submerge of "ELH" in the 15th century of 1940 by the Italians? It is an exemplary text in Greek and tender patriognosis and Greek worship. Is it possible not to teach this famous text - five series - from the Mendelos of Plato, where Menelinos says, namely, Plato, how - why are we Europeans - at any time, we were not only the first Europeans, but we have saved Europe and for thousands of years, we have been the only Europeans? Here, which will also ask for the island in Sahalin, the Greek community and Valparaichos, and will certainly not ask for the recipes for cooking, for Frikantela and for this hybridism, which are often directed - running - and which were directed from whom - a reduction in Greek sovereignty and Greekism. Since we are also saying that Greek culture is also taught, it is obvious that Greek culture cannot be taught by these abominations of Greek some pages from these school books. And in any case put the circle again, Acrotic and Porfyris, all the cycle of Porphyri, again, to return to ourselves. That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Zurari. The reason for this is the special employer of the Association of Central Banks, Mr. Megalo-Economics.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media on the excellent work we want to do, and I do not know - in today's bill that we are all talking about, and to congratulate the Olympics who brought their medals, they fought for the excellence we want to abolish, they made us, in this difficult period of experience, feel national pride because we heard the national anthem and saw the Greek flag rise to the ends of the world. And we really felt national pride. I, at least, felt that. Let us now consider the bill. Unfortunately, we're once more spectators at the same show. On the eve of the school year, Minister of Education, before ringing the first school bell, you brought us into the bar - yet another education bill. And the worst of all is that, about a year ago, the dialogue on education on all issues has started, and I would like to stress it, never - we hadn't discussed the issue of Greek schools in the same family. And now we're working on this bill. Therefore, instead of having a serious, generalised dialogue and having the representatives of the homosexuals able to give us their views in detail, Minister, in the middle of the summer, in an urgent procedure and bring us a draft law today. And what's the parody? You have not taken into account any objections or improvements we have asked for in committee. And I ask you: are you proud of the level of parliamentary work we are doing? Then why are we here if you do not consider anything we suggest? This bill is another clear proof that the Minister of Education is simply legislating at will. And there's no more confirmation than Article 36 of the bill. Article 36 provides that the Minister for Education is to decide entirely on all issues of refugee education. In other words, you are asking us to give you a white check for the refugee schools, which will be handled on your own, without any commitment, without any orientation and of course no limitations. At this point I want to be clear. The Centro Association and I personally consider the registration to be an absolute priority, the identification on a regular basis of all children in hospitality. Of course we should make sure that children have access to schools. Let us not forget that there is the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, and we must bear in mind that many of the children of refugees are unaccompanied and need additional assistance, care and protection. However, this does not mean that the Greek state should not act in an organized manner and after consultation with all political forces and bodies. On the contrary, Minister, you choose another way. The only way you choose is total freedom of movement and decision. In fact, we are also being triggered by the secretiveness you kept, after you requested last March to set up a special scientific committee on refugees' hosting centres and the possibility of educational structures for these children. The committee's findings were published on a site at the beginning of June, but we MPs received knowledge on 3 August at the last meeting of the Committee on Morphic Affairs, one day before the House closed down for summer holidays. That's a great piece of information. And where'd the conclusion of the committee you made? He concluded that the housing conditions for refugees were inappropriate. In any case, in June 2016, there were around thirteen thousand minors, teenagers and children in hospitality. I ask you: Now you know for sure, Minister, if it is thirteen thousand or fifteen thousand or twenty-three thousand or five thousand children who are hosted in the refugee hospitals? Do you know the exact number? How can there be planning to create schools from the Ministry, since you don't even know the number? How will you handle all these sensitive points without Parliament's assistance? You're not asking for any assistance. You are not asking for our assistance, you consider us unnecessary and go on your own. I'm going to Article 28 now. This is another big issue. It is too limited for the private school to be able to lay off an inadequate educationer. I, for my part, am absolutely pertinent in respect of respect for labour law and the protection of workers against the arbitrary nature of the employer. I say it and stress that I'm vertical. However, at such a sensitive point, which affects the proper cooperation between teachers and employers, there should be a consensus on this issue at school between workers and employers. So how will this be done? Should a dialogue not take precedence over all sides in order to find a golden incision? In other words, both teachers, if they do not feel they are doing their job in a friendly environment and the owners, if they do not have flexibility in these difficult monumental times when a teacher does not do them, they will not be able to manage it and they will not be able to find anything. I will even tell you a hypocrisy behind your decision, Minister. As Minister of Education every year you hire assistant teachers with criteria defined each time from the beginning and others from these criteria continue to apply or do not continue to apply next year. And everyone is not sure whether or not next year will be appointed. So you have a hypocrisy that you don't want to apply to private education. The concern of the Ministry of Education is the abolition of this school year of unspecified teachers. We must put a provision to the vote which prevents private schools from choosing teachers and must cooperate with them and have the right to dismissal if the employer's reason for dismissal is established and who is he, because he is fired and after he has passed the board and confirms whether his dismissal is legal or not. But will the dismissal professor continue to be able to deal with him until the authorities responsible for his dismissal have taken a decision? When will the Board and the Education Manager decide? There's no time horizon. In other words, the private school will be forced to pay its teaching staff a teacher, who considers it inappropriate. Yes, sir. Can this be done in practice? Have we also taken into account the wishes of parents who choose to study their child at a particular private school? One asked the parents, who pay, how do they feel, when teaching their child a teacher who has proved to be inadequate? In fact, parents, who pay for private education, do not charge the public budget and do not even get books from the state. Everything pays out of their pocket. Now, they may not eat, but they pay for private education. They will also have the right to require the owner of private education to have the best teacher and they will have one reason. Now, with regard to Article 27(1)(b), I do not understand why the debts created by the teachers, the lecturers within 20 years and by way of derogation from any other legislative provision are being deleted. I would like to repeat that this provision can eventually lead to a reduction of the public debts in question and have the completely opposite effect to what you want. In fact, you have just given us a legislative improvement, and you are telling us that the PPE administrations are obliged to send the debt data within six months. Yes, sir. This helps to speed up the procedures and to put time pressure on the relevant agencies. It's an improvement. But do you think she's capable of solving this problem? This is an improvement here. You tell them to do something faster, you don't solve any problems. For the end I left, Minister, the great theme of the schools of Greek citizenship. Of course, a positive step is being taken in the certification of Greek-speaking children. It was a void that had to be filled. These schools are converted from bilingual to bilingual schools, so that there is no social exclusion of children and can be properly integrated into the local communities that live. But under no circumstances should we get to the other end, just to teach the Greek language. We must all realise how difficult and essential it is to maintain the Greek identity of these children in schools. Of course, to do this, it is not enough for the few hours of teaching young Greeks. These children often only listen to their language at school, especially when one of the two parents is only one Greek. I would like to tell you something else that we need to think about now. According to statistics about two hundred and fifty thousand young Greeks and even scientists left to live abroad. Do you think they'll come back or stay there forever and make families, children? Therefore, we are building a new generation of homosexuals, a new generation of Greek women abroad, who must learn the Greek language. And so they shouldn't lose ties with the country. After we send our children away, at least let them keep ties with their homeland. Thus, the schools of the family must be upgraded. You tell the Greek State to hire foreign teachers to teach children in another language other than Greek. The intake of foreigners, as provided for in Articles 5 and 15, finds us completely opposed. In other words, there is a large number of teachers and teachers who wish to teach abroad Greeks and you prefer to appoint foreigners. So, do you prefer the Greek State's money to be given to foreign teachers?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u48	Whose strangers, I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u49	If you take foreigners and teach...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u50	Where did you read that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u51	That's what the bill article says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u52	Does that say? What aliens? There is no possibility of getting the Greek public foreigners.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u53	Articles 5 and 15 provide for the provision of foreigners. Look at Articles 5 and 15. You prefer, in other words, the Greek public's money to be given to foreign professors, who will not even teach our children in Greek. I'm asking, would they know Greek to teach them? Now, with regard to Article 4, case b3, it is permitted to teach Greeks abroad via the Internet. This case of distance education is easy and costly for the Greek state. But perhaps we can extend it now to our remote villages. When there are two and three children, why send teachers? We can do them online learning. He doesn't have to go to teacher. It's a two-way procedure. I think we're gonna dismantle a student teacher's contact. We'll do it online. The Greek schools must be strengthened and must not be cut off by what they are entitled to. For Greek schools for the family are a link that does not only connect children to teachers. It also connects parents, who remain faithful to the customs and customs of the countryside. That is what the President of the Panhellenic Federation of Private Language Centers, Mr. Michaelides, pointed out. As I do not have time to do so, I should like to mention, finally, the special education which has been afflicted by stormy reactions. First of all, I think the Ministry's thought was positive in that direction. I think there were legal reasonable things. The injustice suffered by the permanent teachers, who have been running the structures of Greek education, has had to be restored. It is also important that the equal treatment of general education teachers with special treatment is ensured in relation to special treatment instructors. The approach has so far been absolute and problematic. However, the relevant amendment of Article 21 of Law No 3699/2008, paragraph 4 (c) provides that in the event of gaps, permanent teachers may be seconded without any qualifications at all. This is absolutely unacceptable, Minister, both for children who need special care from qualified teachers and for assistant teachers, who have a basic degree or additional qualifications. Therefore, the right thing would be to get the panels of special practitioners exhausted first, and if there are gaps then, to get teachers without special qualifications. In general, Article 27 and Article 28 must be withdrawn and re-examined. With regard to Article 36, which is for refugees, there must be a recast and a full description of how the training of refugees is working. Overall, the bill presents major problems with the education of relatives and refugees. It has become the wrong approach, and it has had to be discussed beforehand, so that there can be strong reflection. Finally, we were not given the time and we were not able to discuss it as we should have done. But the main thing is our children. The level of education that has to take has the greatest problem and you need to consider it seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u54	Thank you to Mrs. Megalo-Economics, who completed the cycle of special speakers and rapporteurs for the bill. Before we begin the circle of speakers, Mr Petropoulos has asked for the floor to be put for an amendment. Mr Peglinis, the Deputy Minister of Education, will then be placed on the bill. Two parliamentary representatives have been asked to speak with the Ministers: Mr Papapas from the Golden Dawn, and then Mr Theocharopoulos will follow. After the second parliamentary representative, Mr Theocharopoulos, we will continue with the list of speakers. Mr Petropoulou, you have the floor for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, the custom is, however, that the first circle of speakers is closed before there are interventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u56	It's not a custom. From that point on, Mr. Voridis, you haven't heard. Your suggestion is that we continue with a circle of speeches.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u57	The first cycle...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u58	Yes, Mr. Petropoulos, why don't we give Mr. Petropoulos the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Petropoulos is for an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u60	I beg your pardon, he wants to be placed on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u61	We are not discussing the amendment now. I hear the Minister wants to be placed. I hear that they want the parliamentary representatives to be placed. Well, that can't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u62	Mr Voridis, there is one issue for tomorrow, if I understood well, as I was transferred from Mr Petropoulos. He asked to intervene after the rapporteurs...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u63	I wasn't talking about Mr. Petropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u64	Will you let me talk? He has asked the rapporteurs to put it on a specific amendment, which we may consider - if you want to personally - that it will also help this House in the direction of placing on this amendment. Don't you want to give him the floor? From there on, the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn has asked for the floor because he has some other hindrances to intervene with the Ministers. He has every right, such as any other parliamentary representative. Hey, how do we do it now? We never refused. And time tolerance is there. And time is there. And the list of speakers is not great. So I think we have time margins today to talk. You're the first seven or six, if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u65	What does that matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u66	It is important, because they usually intervene, who are first in the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u67	No, that's not what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u68	To avoid delay, Mr. Petropoulou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. I'll develop my mind in three minutes. Besides, no objections were raised for me. So, very soon, I will develop the provisions proposed by the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. These are provisions which solve practical problems. The first of them refers to the extension of employment of workers in the individual insurance funds that had been integrated from old within the social security system. They're employees who were granted by banks, OTE, PPC. They are those who were employed in TABECH and will be extended until the end of December 2017, in order to issue the procedures for the uniformisation of social security conditions to the single social security institution in this period. The next provision refers to the calculation of the one-off premium to be paid to those categories of insured persons who pay contributions differentiated from the other, those provided for in the law, which exceeds 4% or is at a fixed contribution level, but which should rightly lead to a higher payment of one-off payments. And because we have, according to the law, 60% of the average earnings of the last five years, multiplied by the years of insurance, it makes sense, these people must have a higher rate of replacement and not just 60%. But we've got the limit not to be more than 100%. In other words, there is an additional rate of increase in the contribution of up to 40% in these cases. That is something that is fair and we have to do. And since we are now moving on to the one-off version, I have to say on this occasion that, until yesterday, we have issued, since 2013, a single one, three thousand and fifty single members of the Public Welfare Fund, a thousand hundred single in the TAYTEKO and more in the IKA. With the next provision that we are introducing as an amendment, we will give the possibility for the members of the Social Welfare Fund - because they are some twenty-eight thousand more three hundred more insured than ever before - with much shorter procedures, to take the one-off much faster and to complete the payment to another twenty-eight thousand three hundred who remain until at least the end of 2017. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'm ending up with the next two very soon. We are talking about regulating the accounting of benefits in the EFF - SMEs, and because things need to be dealt with more quickly in January 2017, which would normally be solved by the uniform provisions of the ECA, unfortunately there are management problems in cash and we need to give the possibility, without the administration of the EFF - SMEs, to be able to provide benefits to a sector that has no available to pay these amounts at all. I shall end with the last interpretative provision. Refers to the National Accounting Authority. There is a dignosis in the Ministry's services and it must be interpreted in an authentic way to resolve this diagnosity, so that there is no question of covering some operating costs at the National Accounting Authority on key and essential issues that it needs to work on. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Peglerini, State Secretary for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, has the floor. Minister, you have the floor for nine minutes. You are entitled to half the year from the time the Minister is entitled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u71	However, Mr President, the Rules of Procedure are in breach now. You're breaking him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with an inaccuracy committed by the spokesman of the New Democracy by Mr Charakopoulos, namely that the Ministry of Education has changed the statute and that the secondments precede those who seek a remuneration against those who do not ask for it. The regime remains the same. Those who precede are those who do not ask for a fine. There was an exception this year to deal with the interoperable, corruption, injustice, an insult to equality in the schools of Bavaria. Since 1999 the Bavarian Government has been subsidising schools there with a sum for their operational needs. There are currently some fifty-nine teachers in Munich and Nuremberg who know that and their application to be seconded is unpaid. So they preferred against the others and went there they shared this amount granted by the Bavarian government, so that an instructor beyond the wages he received here would receive some 6,000 euros a month. An instructor was observed, who received 794,294 euros in all in eleven years. If you do not calculate the fourteen years since 1999, it means that you have received around EUR 1175,000. This regime we want to strike. Otherwise, unpaid applicants for secondment are preferable. The bill to be passed, ladies and gentlemen, is part of the education ministry's policy and, more generally, the government's policy on combating interacting and corruption. I would like to point out, in order to avoid misunderstandings, that the conduct of teachers in Bavaria is not illegal or affected by the Greek public. They're not breaking any laws. I just want to say that he's an inappropriate one, that he's insulting the principle of equality and justice. And that is why the Ministry cannot intervene otherwise, except by the measure that I mentioned to you. The bill that comes to debate attempts to rationalise Greek language education abroad, in which, apart from the example I have brought you, opacity, arbitraryness, inequality, inequality and injustice, prevails. It is well known that a secondment teacher can serve abroad for five years. There are currently teachers who have been serving for eight and ten and fifteen and twenty years, with various tricks. And these tricks are what we want to deal with with with this bill, among other things. The aim of the Ministry is to create a single education area, a place where teachers and students, whether abroad or in the domestic area, will have the same share of participation in the educational process. Just because the conditions of Greek-language education abroad fall short of the conditions of education in the country, care is taken to overcome this deficit and ensure equality between the rates of education and we recommend these provisions, which are included in the chapter on Greek-language education. I must also say that the time for drafting and consulting the bill was long. Two committees were set up last October, one under Professor George Papakonstantinou for Greek-language education abroad and the other under the Vice-President of the EPP, Mr. Pavlos Haramis, for intercultural education. Afterwards, this bill was put into consultation. Since last April the representatives of the parties and the bodies of Greek-language education have been given them. A platform was developed on the Internet, where everyone could make their comments, in order to highlight and comment, once constructively, on incorporation in the bill. He was posted on the Internet for public consultation and discussed at the statutory meetings of the Committee on Forums. Two are the basic principles of this draft law during its drafting: the first is that they should not be affected, that they should not be abolished positively, that is, provisions which have been considered positive in the past. For example, I mention that the institution of the bilingual school, established by the 2012 law, which was recommended by PASOK, is maintained. The second principle is that any reform changes should not be made in a violent, immediate and surprising way, but that appropriate time should be given for their maturity. Because it is possible that a reform measure will be right, but the way it is implemented will lead to its destruction. I am pointing out, for example, that the foundation of the bilingual schools, which was introduced by the 2012 law, failed, for it was precisely for it to be implemented directly. Thus, the then Minister of Deputy, going to Germany, stated that school is being abolished from next year. This created a great unrest in the family and had unfavorable results. I would point out, for example, that during my visit, the Consul General of Düsseldorf told me that out of the seven thousand Greek birds he had pointed out, only three - and a half thousand Greek birds knew where they were. Because clearly the parents, knowing that there is no prospect of school-leaving, made sure their children were sent elsewhere. We, what we recommend with the institutions of bilingual school, first of all, is that there should be transnational agreements, that there should be a consensus between the Greeks and the Germans and that it should be applied in any case from the following school year. Other basic provisions of this bill are the certification of the Greek language of the departments of the Greek language, on the basis of objective criteria. A third basic provision is the extension of the "myschool" service to Greek-language education abroad, so that we know the needs and characteristics of each school unit, whether it is a kindergarten, a school or a high school. I would like to say a few words - and to end - about intercultural education. The fact is that the Greek society, due to the increased influx of migrants and refugees in our country has now changed its character, has become much more colorful. It is doubtful whether in the large urban centres there is a school that has no children from other countries. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Give me two more minutes, Mr President, and I'll be done. This means that education, which must be applied in schools, should be intercultural, because only in this way can integration be achieved and exclusions or violent efforts to assimilate children from other countries can be avoided. Intercultural schools, introduced in the 1980s, played a very important role, but are currently being overcome by the conditions. Based on this bill, they are upgraded to experimental cultural schools, in the sense that the appropriate methods will be applied in order to disseminate them to the rest of the education. To conclude, I would like to say that this is a bill of reason, a bill that aims to take Greek-language education abroad and intercultural education a few steps forward, without creating tensions, without creating overturnings, which would undermine the law itself. I think that if the party MPs are removed beyond party controversy, and if, of course, they are aiming at the service of the students, they should support this bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Harakopoulos, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, I ask for the floor on staff because there are false impressions as to what the Minister said about the position I made earlier on on in the budget. I would like to place myself in half a minute, clarifying these.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Harakopoulos, please very much, I urge you to finish in half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u77	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. Mr President, what we have repeatedly emphasised in committee - and I regret the Minister returns to plenary - is this: in the period of fat cows, the country has had the luxury of sending teachers seconded abroad with a bonus. At this time of crisis, luxury does not exist. The Minister argues that in the state of Bavaria there is a secret pendant given to Greeks or gay teachers who are seconded there. So I told the committee that we cannot adopt the logic'suffering hand, cutting hand'. If this is the case in Bavaria, Minister, then you will exclude the secondments to Bavaria from the general rule. You cannot put a general rule in which you are placing photographic obstacles to the secondment of educational spouses of Greeks, foreigners or Greeks. We don't have that luxury.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Harakopoulos, thank you for your intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u80	Minister, will we start a process now? You will answer, Mr Harakopoulos will ask for the floor and he goes on to say. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, give me the floor for a second. I guarantee I'll only speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u82	Here, you have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u83	The "arming hand, cutting hand" you say it, because what you say is not to send teachers to Bavaria, because some exploit situations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u84	Good, good, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u85	But that is not what I said, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u86	Did you see now? All right, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u87	What we're saying is that they keep going to teachers there, treating the complexion that you're supporting at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u88	I tell you that you may not be seconded to the state of Bavaria, Minister, Greek foreigners who are already seconded there, send from here with a bavaria, if you would like, exceptionally, in the state of Bavaria.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u89	I've answered your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u90	It seems, however, that you too have been involved in the temptation of rospheric extracts abroad, which you so much condemn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Harakopoulos, I didn't give you the floor. Minister, you're done. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Poppas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, I will tell you from the outset that I will speak only today. I'm not gonna use any more time of dentology or tritology. I would like to say that with this draft law by the Ministry of Education, which is being discussed today and tomorrow, the cycle of catastrophic post-population is being completed, at least as far as education and education are concerned. The so-called reforms, the experiments, that is, the crime against Greek education began very early, from the era of post-population and especially from the school year 1974-75, when the government of New Democracy, Constantine Karamanlis, ruled Greece, was the first. It was when the pseudo-ethnic ruler opened the gates of education wide open to all kinds of left. Who will forget the falsified memory of the Minister of Education and then Prime Minister George Rally, the son of the Prime Minister of the Occupational Government, Ioannis Rally, and the great commander of the pseudonym, the New Democracy? The downhill path of education continued for all the years of the Translocation. Remember the "Jeffrey" Papandreou, the chassopulator of the pot, the late Geramos Arsenis, one of the protagonists of the national betrayal of the Imian people in January 1996. I would also remind Mrs Giannakou's Minister from the New Democracy, the one who approved Mrs. Reposi's nationalist book of history, because in the New Democracy she released this book that was talking about 'costism' in Smyrna. You ruled along with Mrs. Repussi of DMAR. You laugh at the people, pretending to be the patriots, gentlemen of the New Democracy. To reach our days, in the days of the Minister of State, not National Education, of course, because the "national" made sure to erase it, as whatever national, whatever Greek does not comply with their marxist and internationally-based neo-taxi concepts. It causes you problems, disobedience and panic all national and Greek. Today's draft law stipulates that the falsified defenders of the constitution are completely unconstitutional. They literally think of it as a rag. They do not apply it, as do previous rulers, to all issues of social life, but also to education. In Article 16 of the rule that we have, to be a rule of law rather than a jungle, paragraph 2 states that "education is a basic task of the state and aims at the moral, spiritual, professional and physical education of the Greeks, the development of national and religious conscience and their modulation to free and responsible citizens". The Greek people, who are watching us at the moment, know that none of this is done at all levels of education, in primary school, in high school, in high school and in left propaganda, and now degenerated Greek universities. The damage as I said, the disaster of education began very early, from the years of postpopulation. New Democracy has enormous responsibilities, which is now hypocritically crying on the ruins that it created. In addition, with regard to pro-Europeanism, modernization, scare and subordination to the "holders and occupants", i.e. to the local Greek pluralism, to modern kotsabases, both of you, left and right, compete about who will take first place and finally who will take the anointment of power. I shared with you the Memorandum and subjection to xenophobia. Your speech and arguments are common to both the unification of thousands of invaders in our home country, which was welcomed by the Right from the Samara era as Foreign Minister and which was considered an honor by the then executive of the New Democracy and now the President of the Republic to choose our country as the country of destination of the illegals, even the twin Samaras - Twins that created the first hot spot, for which the current Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy was proud to have light, water, telephone, cooling, heating. Remember the Nineteen visits to Amygdaleza, which now has the courage and dishonesty to mock the Greek people and sell from the safe cheap opposition? And to continue, I remind you of your common economic policy with the Memorandums and Implementing Laws, which you are jointly voting for SYRIZA and New Democracy, the Left and Right, and your fearful policy on national issues. You are both common pilgrims of neo-Ottomanism and sultan Erdogan. The European Union and NATO are the holy cows of your parties and are the reason for your existence. So all of you of our political opponents, but at the same time you are also opponents of the Greek people. And not just that. You are also indignant perverts of Greek history. Invoke both the excerpt of the Isocrates, which you are consciously perverting. Because I don't want to believe that all of you are so obscure, private, and you don't even bother to make a simple search for the text on the Internet. In his "Panagyri" Isocrates called the Greeks into unity, to fight the barbarians. And the extract, which the perverts are artificially and misused, says how we have literally reached the point that Greeks are involved in atmospheric education. And he is so "international" that if anyone goes further into his text, he will see - you, the ignorant, in introductory or out-of-importation - which is said by Isocrates: "The barbarians speak." Isocrat is giving that direction. The barbarians are mourning! In the last years of postpopulation, until 2012, the Golden Dawn was not represented in the Greek Parliament, fearless left-wing and right-wing deceased filled pockets and bellys from the stolen Greek people, at the same time throwing a cheek in their cheeks, as well as to the left-wing non-governmental ones. You ended up with the funds. You have submerged a large part of our people into incomprehensible and inhuman poverty and tolerance. Our movement foretells that thieves will go to jail and stolen will be attributed to the Greek people. The popular nationalist movement - we - a movement really made up of folk fighters and not veilers, has never turned or turned a share of the pie of hatred and corruption. Why do any of us chrysayites have no "SIEMENS" construction and villas on islands, as do the most patrons and remoulders of you? Today's Greek youth, however we do, was, is and will be the future of the nation. Youth has a central place in our ideology. He's at the core of our ideology. This youth has been cared for by you, left-wing and right-wing, by your political forces, but also by PASOK, New Democracy, SYRIZA and ANEL, to evacuate it from the Greek land. Four hundred and fifty thousand young Greeks, qualified graduates, strong minds, seek their luck in European countries for work, since youth unemployment exceeds 50%. And in their place you bring foreigners, refugees, foreigners, Muslims of all sects, Islamists, disease carriers, as well as institutions of a culture where they rape, where minor children and minor girls marry, burning and beheading people, holding hostages, continuing slavery and treating the woman as an object. Is that what you want to do Greek and take part in Greek education? Most of you, left-wing and right-wing, at your youths you were members of the "Ferraion King" or other left-wing bands and you know outside Lenin's cheetah, but you don't know and have no idea about Isocrats. Thank you, Professor. So I'm asking again. Are you going to make Greeks, ladies and gentlemen? You're born Greek, you're not. Yes, they want you to do, these illegal Muslim invaders, who are providing them with a free apartment with European Union funding, with access to services. Provide an apartment with an area of at least 60 square meters, furnished, with natural and sufficient ventilation, as you say, with natural light, free of moisture, sufficient heating, cooling, hot water, drinking water, sewerage. Have you forgotten the Greek homeless who have flooded the centre of the major cities and Athens? Why? They don't have a soul? Theirs is the Greek country. They're not the invaders of illegal immigrants. What are you doing for the Greeks? In addition to the tax storm that comes with HOPIA, the Greek man is asked to pay taxes, reservations, extraordinary contributions, VAT which goes directly to the European Union, to pay the Greek man himself, to pay his father, to pay his son, to pay for his grandson. One of the two taxpayers is unable to meet its tax obligations. One in four Greeks from twenty to twenty-four years old, 26.1%, has no job. Red loans from 7.7% in 2009 amounted to 44.2% in 2015. Greeks, then, in poverty. 2009 was 23%. 2015 is 39.9%, 40%. Bank accounts confiscations. Every day from the General Secretariat of Public Revenue there are a thousand two hundred electronic confiscation orders. Dozens of properties come out in the hammer. One million four hundred thousand people are threatened by tax, with seizures of assets for debts of less than or above 500 euros. Now that schools are opening, it's in a race - you know, Minister, that you're making a race, right? - your Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, not only for the smooth start of the school year on Monday, September 12, but also for the start of the education programme for the children of refugees in the country. How many applicants - within or outside of the import - are you considering that they will be involved in the programme? So far, if I'm not mistaken, nine thousand potential students have been registered, but the ministry will build up, he says, infrastructure for double, up to twenty-two thousand students. You estimate, obviously, the ones who will come in the near future. As far as the cost of implementing this programme is concerned, you are considering that the first phase will only be EUR 9.5 million. So, for the applicants, EUR 9.5 million. So what do you think? Money is there not for Greeks, but for illegal immigrants. I will close, ladies and gentlemen, to learn, in the very timely words of Isocrat, which may be considered by the first to contribute to the Greek idea. For this very reason he is considered a spiritual father of the nation, making the need first to preserve him. In his individual beliefs he was a strong champion of the unity of Hellenism. In his reasons he avoided being critical and extreme. He resorted to counseling for homoneness and aggregation of all Greeks to deal with barbarians. As far as foreign policy is concerned, it urged the conquest of all the barbaric peoples, while on the inside it preferred democracy from the oligarchy, praised Pericles and admired Solon. It is worth noting, without wanting to be tiring, that his city, Athens, considered it the oldest city, great and well-known at the end of the world. Specifically he said: "We dominate not because we have driven other residents to grab it or found it in a deserted city, and we have decided to inhabit it, and we have come to understand it, but our origin is so good and genuine that the land we were born in is in our possession without any interruption. We are here natives." He also believed that this city, only we Greeks are entitled to call it mother and home. Isocrates translated wealth of incomparable knowledge into the Greek race. However, it proved terribly insightful and prophetic. I transfer from the "Aropagic" his words: "Our Republic is destroying itself, because the right to freedom and equality has been abused, because it has taught citizens to view insolence as a right, illegality as freedom, indifference of speech as equality and anarchy as bliss". By transposing his words to today, he is more timely than ever, in a democracy which everyone perceives and interprets according to will and which has nothing to do with democracy, as our ancient ancestors meant and applied. Destructed, converted, corrupted and has resulted in immunity, disobedience and equilibrium of any principle and value. Thus, supported by the most unworthy and inappropriate graves, it is transformed into the best means of enslavement, freedom and degeneration of man and his civilization. To conclude, Mr President, I would add that the levelling-up of national education is the best vehicle for achieving the threatened absolute enforcement of the dictatorship of the new order and globalisation. Teachers from interministered internationalism and "lefter-collector" taught today's professors of ethnicity and lovitour with European programs and NGOs, all those who have no faith in God and homeland. For these very reasons Golden Dawn voted against every anti-national bill, as a genuine force of resistance. I have said in this Chamber that nationalism is the youth of the world, but Greek nationalism is also based on Greek youth. The Greekity, the revolutionaryity, the battle spirit of the resistance of the Greek young Greek nationalist you cannot bend it with the fierce bills. You haven't beaten her for four years with persecutions, shells, prisons, murders. Greece is ready to live and will live beyond your dirty powers and unholy agreements. The power of Hellenism, the power of youth will win and the Golden Dawn is a guarantor of this brilliant Greek future. We're here to fight and win. We will win because we have faith, ideas, Chief, and we are above all and before all Greeks in blood and soul.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u93	Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Theocharopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, today we are discussing a bill of extremely important importance, which concerns three axes, namely Greek-language education, intercultural education and, ultimately, private education. Once again, we are experiencing the government's tactics to choose the fragmentation of codification and surprise by tabling a number of last minute amendments and provisions which show concentration in decision-making, particularly the absence of vision and strategy. The amendments come and one of them was withdrawn a little while ago. I think that doesn't make sense. We say and say again that we must not continue to operate in this way. Mr Minister, I have listened carefully to your speech and I want to say this. Firstly, there is a need for a national dialogue on education. Education is an issue that is above party purposes. You launched a dialogue with many objections, which we have presented, on how it is done. However, all these issues that are crucial, such as the question of private education, which requires a comprehensive bill, have not come as a product of this national dialogue. They come and are discussed in part. At the same time, I would like to stress that there is an intense climate of polarization and conflict, I would say, between the SYRIZA and the New Democracy, between the government and the New Democracy. This crusade climate, even on the subject of education, is also revealed at today's meeting. It's a climate we can't go ahead with. We are not talking about whether we can reach agreement on other issues. We cannot agree here on the way in which this debate is being held. And now I would like to deal with some of the issues you mentioned in your speech and, of course, the draft law. You said about the government's programme statements. You reminded us of the October programming statements. I could refer to many issues of unsuccessful programme statements, many issues which do not concern education. But I'm not used to talking about other issues. You in your speech, in the programming statements, said you would investigate the possibility of a permanent appointment in 2016. These appointments have not yet been made, but there is a commitment, a promise I would say better.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u95	"Authentication" doesn't it say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u96	Yeah, yeah. Answer me. So you're investigating it in 2016 and you're still investigating it. I'm accurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u97	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u98	At another point in the government's programme statements you mentioned: "We will pay particular attention and care to the establishment of a modern system of special education and training support for all children with disabilities. Because that means that we are actually promoting equal opportunities training for all and for all. Intellectual proof of our interest in special education - the statements are on October 6, 2015 - it is the government's decision to recruit additional staff, about a thousand people, for special education this year." That was your promise in October 2015! So today you have brought an amendment - and I shall refer to it later - to which you referred in your speech. You said, for example, that while there is a need for about nine thousand people, there are only two thousand two hundred people who have finished these schools right now. So the question that arises is why don't you take them first, why didn't you start and why didn't you take them? You can clearly say that you cannot start because of the government's financial data.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u99	Others for somethin'!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u100	You will answer, Minister! You'll answer that later. Don't rush! You'll answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u101	Do you hear or don't hear what we're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u102	You'll answer! So I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u103	If you don't listen!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u104	If I don't listen, Minister, he doesn't listen, as I see here, nor do I hear the Special Education Alumni Association, who has sent you a document...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u105	What's he saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u106	Minister, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u107	... entitled “Direct withdrawal of the amendment that crushes disabled or special educational needs and teachers IP61 and IP71”. Of course, as has already been said, there is no conflict between skills here. The question is to really find the way in which there will be the best possible education for these students, but of course to support teachers too. In our opinion, however, this is an unacceptable provision, which should be withdrawn. This specific expertise requires knowledge, skills and mental strengths that cannot be met by training seminars. There are many undetermined specialist scientists who could fill the gaps. One could accept covering gaps from people with a postgraduate or doctorate on this subject. However, with nothing we can accept all of this assimilated to a number of seminars, even four hundred hours, and it is not specified by which body they will come from. I therefore think that this matter should be seen again and you should not go any further. Furthermore, we must enter a debate on all these issues. You also said that you restored democracy to schools. Look, because there are heavy words about democracy, I think they should not be said primarily by you, who knows well what it is about when it comes to democracy. You also said that education costs should not fall apart as a percentage of GDP. Is spending on education low? It's low! Was it supposed to increase? We should be clear. They've got to grow! There's no doubt about it. I'm the first to tell you. But it didn't increase in your time. Unless you consider an increase at some point as a percentage of GDP to increase expenditure due to a fall in GDP, because we will not have growth. Therefore, there is a need for a real shift in policy, so that spending can also be increased as a percentage of GDP. Of course, you also referred to excellence. My criticism, Minister, is not on the neoliberal side. You mentioned that excellence hides policies that lead to exacerbation of social inequalities. Can there be a case? There may be. However, when this is projected and it does not appear that excellence has the positive one, which can stimulate and go upwards and not downwards to education, it means that we want to create a - I would say - artificial conflict on this particular subject, which has no meaning at all. I remind you of your predecessor saying that excellence is a relic. I have not heard you say so far that you are adopting this, but I have heard this specific phrase in your speech today. And of course, you have referred - and I will say it - to the refugee and you said that the government as a whole responds to solidarity. You know that we have tried to see the refugee and the relevant Minister in the bills, but also when he brought the Europe-Turkey agreement. However, there are many delays, which also lead to refugees having problems and the citizens, the delays that exist in Greek too - and the Minister responsible, Mr Mouszalas, admitted them - delays that exist everywhere in this particular matter. I shall refer briefly to this subject in relation to education. You also said that the books are ready on time and that makes the country credible to come out of the crisis. The country will come out of the crisis, when we finally change policy, when we say truthful, we will move on to structural reforms in all areas of politics and education, where it takes profound changes, and not, of course, when we do the self-evident, the self-evident things that you said that some years, for other reasons, may not have taken place, but the truth is, just in the past years, from what your government had done, they had happened. I know that, at least, according to the evidence I've seen. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the question of Greek-language education should be a priority abroad, of course, because, beyond the national features, it has an important economic, cultural and social footprint. We would therefore expect with the proposed draft legislation to develop and adapt our country's policy in this area in the next few days, through modern assumptions, to update the objectives, with targeted and quality actions, so as to achieve a greater attraction of homogenous pupils to Greek-language schools and to address any problems of administrative structure and efficiency. However, the provisions to which we are positive - in the First Chapter I am referring - nevertheless regulate Greek-language education do not bear witness to any vision or clear redesign. That's clear. They are aimed at resolving a number of issues, but there are many already adopted provisions with few amendments. The same is true of the second chapter of the bill on the crucial issue of intercultural education. Unfortunately, there is no substantial legislative intervention, but a settlement to existing administrative matters, without prospects and strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, how does intercultural education mean through the model of education to be promoted for the integration of all-language pupils and refugees? It can't be done. Does it make it clear that the aim of intercultural education is the relationship between groups with different cultural backgrounds - national, linguistic, religious - based on mutual understanding, mutual respect and interaction? I mean all this through the institutional framework, not at the theoretical level. It does not become clear because the objectives of intercultural education and the need to strengthen it are not clearly defined. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, you will also give me my second language. And obviously, its importance is not only to do, as stated in the explanatory statement, with the treatment of extreme right-wing extremism or with the racist perceptions and practices, which have clearly been strengthened and must be addressed, but intercultural understanding in the educational system also has many benefits at other levels. It cannot come from a set of measures, which we have put together, and we must now implement them. So the concept of interculturalism in education must pass through, not only the school program, but also the collective operation of the school, a school in which the student will know, understand, but also judge who it is, the history, religion, language, traditions, customs and customs. Awareness of identity while stimulating student responsibility is the passport for both the protection of identity and the strengthening of tolerance and respect for different national and cultural identities. Only the adoption of positive attitudes on the part of pupils can lead to the exploitation of the multicultural potential of the classroom. Ladies and gentlemen, intercultural education does indeed require a coherent and comprehensive planning. The draft law, however, contains only fragmentary arrangements. Such fragmentary arrangements are also provided for for school staff, as well as authorisation for ministerial decisions to identify important issues, and should be included in a more general planning. You are asking for a white-handed authorisation and for the issues relating to the establishment of reception structures for the training of refugees, which I mentioned earlier, and the establishment of the organisation of the training programme and the criteria for their staffing. Minister, on 23 June I tabled a question on the educational integration of thousands of refugees - according to UNICEF figures - twenty-two thousand are in our country. In the reply we received from you and Mr Muzala on 14 July you will inform us of the setting-up of a committee to support children of refugees, the setting-up of a scientific team to assist the committee, the training of training staff and the setting-up of suitable areas. And our Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction notes that the exact picture of the number of children and by extension of educational needs will arise after completion of the process of pre-registration of asylum applications initiated by the Office and the UN High Commissioner. In other words, responses that do not give evidence of concrete actions, which are part of a credible and realistic timetable. At the same time, we read in articles how reception classes should function from the end of September, where there is more information. You say there "could be able to learn Greek, their language, to cultivate a foreign language if we can then - soon - after going through the first stage, be able to learn in the same classes with the Greeks" - I refer to the publications mentioned in your statements - and that "in these classes they will be invited to teach teachers who have an experience from the past, teachers who know how to teach Greek as a second foreign language and will be exploited and people who have an experience". But is there a specific and costly proposal, Minister? Is there a complete design on this subject? We're going to give authority to do what exactly? You need to explain to us in detail in your dilemma, because in this extremely critical subject, centralism and clandestineness are evident and, unfortunately, there is no integrated plan. In the question I had tabled and the answers I had even received from the Minister responsible, Mr Muzala, in July, I was told that he would give me detailed information in September about everything, in terms of the exact number, nationality, age and level of education of the children. As first evidence, however, we already have four and a half thousand applicants in Greece, according to the evidence. It is not exactly the same as UNICEF. However, a costly design is needed, because there is also a cost here, there is no doubt at all. Ladies and gentlemen, I could not focus on and say two words about Article 28, which has, after all, monopolized the debate. Another friendly tactic of the government has been repeated, namely the inclusion of an article which singles out interest and focuses on discussions and tensions, leaving the other main articles of the bill to a second degree. In the research bill we dealt with kindergartens. We are now dealing with Article 28 in private education and more specifically in industrial relations and the operation of private schools. It has created tensions in the article and general turmoil in the debate. First of all, I should like to emphasise the most important of all. What is needed is to improve the education provided by maintaining a stable public supervision framework for private schools. We are not talking about a state-sponsored situation, but about a logic of unregulated operation. The necessary balance must be ensured between the absence of state supervision and the complete - I would say - state intervention. There must be a legal framework which defends employment rights without canceling the flexibility of the private initiative. We must be clear from the point of view of this: in education you do not have the doctrine 'what you pay, you get'. Improving the education provided is the primary, as this is the objective in both public and private schools: To serve the student and provide him with the necessary knowledge and skills. There is, however, a fragmentary and distorting approach to the whole issue. We have been clearly placed. We believe that private education should also be supervised by the Ministry of Education. We believe that the regulations of L.3848/2010 should be brought back to this issue, which can form the basis for a new, whole-material dialogue, as it had not in fact led to redundancies, but also to flexibility. The government had to show consensual spirit without obsessed. We believe that the aim of all of us should be to improve the situation for the better, both in public and in private schools, and not to make a sense downwards. Looking at the article at issue, one finds that it is, in many cases, a combination of previous laws, on the question of employment relations and redundancies in private schools. But in the light of the changing circumstances, what should be done is an extensive dialogue, which would result in a comprehensive draft law on private education, which should be dealt with as a whole. Beyond this need, we are concerned both by the objections of the government and the reactions of the Officerial Response for these reasons. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The Government does not believe that it is concerned with the effective supervision of private education in order to avoid illegality which has indeed been observed. On the other hand, the Qualified Opposition is in no way convinced that it is interested in the quality of private education provided. Private schools are not supermarkets, but at the same time they are not funded by the state, but by private individuals. Therefore, we must find the golden incision here, aimed at protecting the education provided.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u108	Then why do you say about the coupons?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u109	Have you heard this proposal from the Democratic Incorporation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u110	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u111	Have you heard neoliberal proposals from the Democratic Association?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u112	I'm asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u113	Ask it where you hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u114	Please, Minister, do not interrupt. Mr. Theocharopoulos, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u115	The Minister has just interrupted, Mr President. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this bill may contain some positive provisions, such as the First Chapter on Greek-language education abroad. This does not, however, detract from the fragmentation, clandestineness and, above all, the lack of integrated planning, as well as the plan of an integrated policy, costly. I want to believe that we all want education in this Chamber that serves both the public and private school pupils, without discrimination on the part of any side, neither the public school student nor the private school student, and it will ensure the rights of both public and private staff, without at the same time leaving room for abusive behaviour. Education is about all citizens and must be above party objectives. We must not forget that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. We're starting the speaker circle. Before we begin with the first speaker, Mr Michalis, to reach an agreement with the House. It has been decided, since the beginning of the sitting, to interrupt the sitting at 12 o'clock. So until then, it's two hours, a hundred twenty minutes. That is to say, the speakers who can easily take the floor then are even Mrs Karamanlis, perhaps even one or two fellow Members. Possibly. However, as a catalyst, we put that name to the House, so that the Members can also know what time is going on and, if necessary, prepare them. So let's start with Mr. Michalis from SYRIZA. Mr. Mikhelis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we arrived in plenary with the draft law on schools for Greek children abroad, and private education and other provisions. It is well known that an interesting and intense debate has taken place in the Committee on Morphic Affairs, but above all in the publication of articles, extremist and exaggerated views in various media. I will focus specifically on private education. The knowledge of educational things know that private education exists in the country, at primary and secondary level, many decades ago. Those in the field of education know that this was not an act of some "lightened" businessmen, but an effort by the Greek elite to educate their children in separate and selective schools from those of the children of the popular strata, while, of course, offering wealthy Greeks abroad to schools in our country. In the course of the year, private education was widely extended to varying forms - foreignlanguage, education centres and others - serving new educational needs that emerged in the 1960s and 1970s, which proved to be unable to fulfil the public school. At that time it was a broad entrepreneurial interest. It is right that the political leaderships of the Ministry of Education have incorporated all forms of this private education into its control, in order that schools, in particular, have valid qualifications. This check had as a presumption that the private school was primarily a school and not a business and must therefore follow the public's detailed and time schedule as well as the other operating arrangements. Mr Arvanitopoulou, President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Arvanitopoulos, for his excellent report. It was at the time when it abolished the production specialities of the PSAs, fired permanent teachers, and at the same time opened private IEKs. Private schools are companies, so they fall within the respective departments and ministries beyond this education, a concept which is in line with the views of education, merchandise and student - a customer. Apart from the above, let us look at the practice of some - and I will stress - private schools, particularly vocational training. I speed up a few: Absence of students without being recorded. For the purpose of certifying the student’s presence, a tuition fee was sufficient. Excellent oral and written graduation in many cases of all schoolchildren, usually absent, with "twenty", in order to make the best use of this "eight" to claim a place in the public, which has been done. Concurrent registration in two schools of the same student and performance on him of two degrees with different specialties to increase his formal qualifications. Schools avoiding the control of their teaching staff either because of incomplete qualifications or because of their "black" work. This is some of the data mentioned by the public administration auditor in the Committee on Educational Affairs. I ask: is anyone really imagining a public school with such a function? I think it is absolutely incomprehensible. How did they deal with them? They are known from 2006-2007. At that time, the Ministry of Education passed legislation on the re-check, which was forgotten to take place and had a lot of nerve for some newspapers to call on the current leadership of the Ministry of Education about what it does for forged degrees. That's what these TEIs characterized as. Today's legislation restores the logic that private school is not a business, is primarily an educational institution. As a result, and since such qualifications are equivalent to those of the State, they are subject to the educational provisions and control of the Ministry of Education. In our country, the right of the parents of wealthy families to attend separate schools from those of the children of popular classes has never been restricted. However, it is not acceptable to demand that they receive qualifications in which the private schools choose. The example of private universities in foreigners, where the university's father- sponsor ensures a degree for his son, the majority of Greeks, I appreciate that it is not acceptable. The insistence of the school representative, in particular, as trade union committees, something about soviet, the training councils, shows where things want to lead, in fact, to the abolition of the service councils and the complete inconsistency of private schools as businesses. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] For those who do not know, the participation of teachers' representatives in the service councils was established by Law 309/1976. I am also aware that these educational councils were still working in the Metaxas era. Of course, then, instead of a representative of the teachers, there was a representative of the military commander. In conclusion, I would point out that the draft law deals with years of issues of education, such as those of Greek children, and restores private education to the logic of the educational institution. Those who question it are unrealisticly exposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr. Michalis. Mr Mavroudis Voridis, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. To apologize in advance to my dear professors, whom I will be sorry to say. He's not in the Chamber between you two, but he was in the gallery. In any case, I was worried about them, and when I was in school, and therefore, in that sense, they will be used to it in this regard. I would like to begin by referring to the speech made to the committee by the Minister for Friends, who wondered whether these provisions are of a Bolshevik type. Truth, of course, is that Bolshevikism in this Chamber is rightly represented by the Communist Party of Greece, which also has a coherent view of it. What's he saying? He says there shouldn't be any private schools at all. Simple, clear, clear. It is not based on the Constitution, but the Constitution is a civil constitution, but that is a clear view. The question is whether the legislation promoted by Mr Philis actually leads to this result. What does Mr. Friend do? Mr Philadelphia and the government, to be fully informed, say: Recruitment is done with the approval of the director of the department concerned. For two years there's been a test period. After the two years, if it decides to maintain the contract, it will be converted into an indefinite period. Deal. It is not normally solved, such as all contracts of indefinite duration, i.e. by a simple complaint, but by the employer. What for? He says the reasons. Removal of schools - the school must be closed - the abolition of classes and classes, the completion of the seventh year of age. Otherwise, the only other reason is-- listen! - if the employer invokes and demonstrates a sufficiently reasoned disturbance in the educational climate at school - all over the school - because of a lack of cooperation between an employer and an instructor. When is this possible? There's a crisis that someone doesn't do their job well. Well, there's no disturbance in the whole school from this. So, actually, the employer never did. But there is a second case where the school owner is made redundant because of physical and mental incapacity - in fact - to complete the service time for full retirement - and indeed - to impose a disciplinary penalty for dismissal by the disciplinary board concerned - what has he done, namely, man, imagine - inadequacy in the performance of their duties - that is, - which is to say, established by the relevant agency, i.e. by the state. Yes, sir. There is a simple question: Free public education is available in our country in public schools. Right? That's right. At the same time, the Constitution says that private schools are protected. Right? That's right. Question: Why does someone choose to send their children to a school he pays and does not choose to send them to a school he does not pay? Is that man crazy? He's doing it for a reason. Because the Constitution gives him the right to choose not to trust the Minister of Education, not to trust the public system. That's why he's doing it. Watch out, if he was gonna trust it -- and now we're going to the choice -- Is he doing it because the buildings are nicer? So someone sits down and does that expense to have nice buildings? Why is he doing it? The school program in many is the same. It actually does, because it seeks better education linked to human resources. Why is human resources better in the judgment of this? Maybe it isn't. However, it can be in the legitimate crisis that allows the constitutional legislator to make and choose. Why is it better? What's better? What's differentiating it? His choice and evaluation process. So, what are you doing here today? You remove the right to choose. You're removing the evaluation procedure. So you remove the main reasons for choosing private education. Hence, the Minister may well be called a slanderer of a Bolshevik, wicked, one who does not say things by their name, does not come directly to say what is being done, but in fact, from the back door, he is trying to abolish something extremely basic. What's that? The right to choose. Ladies and gentlemen, what you are abolishing by this provision is the right to choose. That's what you're doing. That's what you're hurting. And you're doing another thing. You're now saying, "Do you know? We do this because the Council of State has recognised..." - you have invoked a decision of the Council of State - "that it is not really purely business in schools, but because they provide educational work, they are, in fact, subject to the supervision of the Ministry of Education and the State." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I have some time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u120	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u121	I've got one minute anyway. I was talking about an extra. One minute, I'm entitled to it. I wouldn't ask for it. The application wouldn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u122	Go ahead, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u123	So I say this: the Council of State, which you invoke, what does it say? Because you always say it's missing when we come to law school. You read half the things you like. The other half that you don't like, you don't. 'These restrictions...' - says the Council of State - must be dictated on grounds of public interest relating to the safeguarding and improvement of the freedom provided by private schools and not dismissing...' - hear here - 'Neither be excessively restricting the constitutionally protected freedom of establishment of private schools and the subsequent freedom of the teacher's owner to choose his teaching staff'. That's what the Council of State says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u124	He's choosing them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u125	Yeah, picking means being able to choose, prosecute, choose. Now we're going to the point. What's this all about? The redundancies have been liberated for the last two years. Isn't that right? How many were fired? One hundred and fifty in nine and a half thousand, that's 0.5 percent. Is that why?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u126	That's why...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u127	No, it's not that. In fact, because most of you, possibly, have never been in front of what it is to lay off a worker...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u128	Getting fired and seeing what it's like!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u129	Because being fired is heavy, but being fired is as hard as ever, I have a simple question to you that you are now ensuring with all this, it is assumed, the level of education and the comfort of educational activity and teaching. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Is there going to be a skilled teacher who will have his students, who will have a relationship with the parents, who will be considered worthwhile, who will be judged positive and who will go a madman, who is the owner of the school, to fire him?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u130	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u131	Yes, sir! Why would he do that? I answer: 'Cause he's a communist and he's persecuting him, and the other one is - I know - right and he wants to denounce the contract. That's why a shocking reason!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u132	That's not it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u133	And that's not controlled - does the ignorant citizen ask anyway? Answer: E, of course it's checked. Because what you say 'undoubted complaint' does not exist because it is controlled by the case law of the Ice Bay for abuse, for vengeance, for dismissal. You're swinging your hand. Look...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u134	Please finish, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u135	SYRIZA's colleagues, I get it. What is called our legal system, what is called our legal culture, what is called protection, is none of your business. You are concerned with another system: only a state, no freedom, and as one of your colleagues rightly said - I think it is entirely a matter of your understanding - the time has ended when we were our own bosses, now the goal is to be all civil servants of the state. It also serves the general target you have as a government. The left has always been, over time and historically, an enemy of freedom. You are materializing this hostility...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u136	You've been over three minutes, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u137	I'll finish in 15 seconds. Look where you cut me to the nicest now, close. So do you materialize this hostility in exactly what way? By limiting the networks and information channels, limiting the possibilities of journalists, targeting them, to speak freely...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Voridis, you've been over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u139	...by now targeting private schools and using interventions lasting in justice to implement this project. Kyriakos Mitsotakis will come to power literally bringing freedom visions again in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u140	Good. I would ask the speakers, because our time is until 24.00, to be consistent in time. Otherwise, the speakers will be cut off today and they will be gone tomorrow. Mr. Ilias Panagiotaros has the floor, consistently in your time, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u141	As strong as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u142	Sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let us remind the previous speaker that his party has passed laws and has made agreements, which are the definition of totalitarianism, such as the "Eleftherios Venizelos" airport, where no one else is allowed to have an airport within a hundred kilometres, such as for the monopolistic interests that you had up to a precedent in many different manifestations of social and economic life and everything else. Wherever it is your interest you are liberal, where it is of interest you are more Bolsheviks than Bolsheviks, Mr Vorides. And remember, in fact, the law you signed on tolls, where anyone who doesn't pays toll is going to the lighthouse. And why not go to the lighthouse and someone who doesn't pay someone else's invoice? Because private tolls are too, Mr Vorides, as you have done. And we see, of course, that the next of you also continue this policy by increasing toll stations, by increasing tolls, and by banning all those who wanted to save their tolls. As for this bill, since the whole of Europe is trying to fortify and defend itself against the Islamic cradle, which has surpassed every precedent on issues relating to Europe and the Western world, we see the coexistence of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks, those who hate all the national, Greek, Orthodox, to do exactly the opposite and to open the way to all kinds of illegal immigrants, to their families, with all sorts of facilities in Greece and Greece alone. You started with the bills for the legitimisation with the fast track procedures of all those who enter our country at the same time as Greeks in the blood can't have a Greek passport, such as an Olympian of Greek origin that they don't give her a Greek passport to fight with our country. But that's something else. We have seen that you have progressed with the Islamism of our country with the mosque in the Botanic, but also with other provisions that are beneficial to the Islamists - the House as a whole except Golden Dawn. We have seen what happened with the coexistence pact, what Mr George Soros has imposed, your good friend. And now you keep going to finish the Education. The title alone of this bill, where it speaks of Greek-language education, about intercultural education, unravels you. And, of course, he doesn't talk about Greek education anywhere, since you hate her, you despise her, and if it was up to you, you would disappear her in a moment. He said the Minister - he is not here at the moment - 'a school open, creative for all the children who live in our country'. Oh, no, no, Is that what they told you to say? Does the Constitution say anything else? Is it about Greek citizens and those who legally live in this country? But, no, the Constitution is written in the oldest of your shoes and invoke it as a card when it suits you and for what is of interest to you. And for what you are not interested in, you turn it into another motto in order to convince the Greek citizens - who are not convinced of anything - of what you want to create. You say, for all the children who live in our country. Let us remind you, however, - as the Parliamentary spokesman for the Golden Dawn has said, but also the special speaker of the Golden Dawn - that this year 30 000 Greek birds will not be able to go to the nursery stations because they do not meet the criteria because they are prioritised by some other children, who on paper appear to be from very poor, poorer families. We all know what's going on. However, these children will certainly not be able to go to nursing stations, with all that that implies to their families. In order not to talk about some Greek birds in the Greek province that in 2016 they have to walk for miles to go to their schools, because the Greek state has not taken care of all the Greeks, but has taken care of them and is very late for the children of illegal immigrants, who in the end do not live in our homeland. Everyone says they've been here for a short time. To remind you, in fact, what happens with the Greek schools of abroad that close one after another, because the Greek state cannot finance the education of Greeks abroad. You see, the Greeks are not Islamics, they are not jihadists, they are not Muslims, they are not from Asian, African countries, but they are Europeans, they are Greek citizens and, unfortunately, this is a great disadvantage to them. We have heard how comfortable the Minister was referring to recruitment, saying that there will be recruitment here, there, thousands here. But you don't have saliva! You can't pay anything and hire people? Who are you kidding? Unless you have found some equivalents from elsewhere and you will continue to strangle the Greek people in order to hire additional teachers to teach or anything else the children of illegal immigrants will do. You have referred to and supported private education in an indirect or direct way. The laughter is, of course, that you, the best clients of private education, should not talk about it. However, with everything that is going on in our home country, with demographics and so on, there will be no private education at all because there will be no children, no Greek birds going to it. So it will go for free and your trouble, which is done for the benefit of some syndicate situations. That's what it looks like, because you couldn't present it right. You talked about quality schools. This is where we laugh! Only a baby or half - learner or vengeful toward the home would say what you said. Unless with levelling and degradation quality comes! Because that's what this is about. With the committees of the various nationalists, stateless, atheist, Buddhist and reluctant who you have drawn up in your Ministry, you believe there will be some quality in education. It will certainly not be upgraded, nor will there be anything better for Greek education, nor for Greek-speaking education, as you or intercultural. With the various undeniable savourous books you are publishing - of course, New Democracy had started this custom with Reposi, Dragon and others - these refreshing literature, which they do not even for recycling, you believe there will be quality in education. With your incompatibility and faithful yogurts of globalisation you are, you have also given your credentials for this bill, but also for your other ideas, to the UN High Commissioner, Mr Philip Grandi, do nothing and do something that will not be the like of the internationalists and all those who are working to dismantle national states. You must have obtained approval from Mr. Soros. Over the last few days, weeks, we have seen tens of thousands of e-mails and information that shows how he has earned politicians, party executives, media to pass the various dissolutions in terms of the country's ideas and in favour of globalisation. Ultimately, how interested are the training of illegal immigrants or refugees, as you say. On the other hand, you show this with your interest in living. Because there is no "massa" - such as in hot spots - mists, scams and lovitou, but it is somewhere like in Greek, in the knob of Greek, you have absolutely no interest. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. What you want is the dissolution of the national state and the extinction of the Greek tribe. It is the same desire as the "patriots" - within many introductorys - of the New Democracy, Repussi, Dragon and all the various ethnicists, who in the years of the New Democracy began and became strong in the releasing of our country and education. You are the worst racist against Greek citizens. You're an incredible group of unrelated, unrelated, unwitting, unwitting, atrocious hawk. But be sure that in the end, with God's help, Greece will win. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u144	Mrs. Kefalidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u145	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good start. Today we are discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Education on Greek-language education under the shadow of the eunuch competition for the licensing of television stations. If it were not so tragic to return to totalitarian conditions that are currently being perpetrated by the government, it could be a hilarious joke. This is because, with today's bill, the government is trying - and Mr Philis confirmed it in his speech - to gain the impression that in a political culture and consensus the debate is taking place, while at the same time the government shows its real face, that of its establishment in a regular Soviet era of the 1970s. After today, every debate, every sign of convergence and consensus will be drowned in the grey zone of the authoritarian authority of SYRIZA - ANEL. Today we will remember it as a disgrace to democracy, a disgrace to freedom of speech and expression, any disgrace to the left. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is the reason why the Minister responsible should be able to present his work to the Ministry in the light of the forthcoming reform. Why else can it be a bill that half the articles are already a digitised, state-owned law? And I refer to Law 4027/2011, Diamantopoulou - Gennamas. Let me just remind you - because due to a mutation, with SYRIZA everything is possible - that as opposition SYRIZA fought it in every way and today he comes in and brings it as a product of his own inspiration and inspiration. You will vote, in other words, on a five-year delay in an already adopted PASOK law. Your logic is not challenging. You're joining our own positions. But it must be forgotten that this was PASOK's law. So the bill must acquire brand name SYRIZA - ANEL, like the books of history that we have recently heard announcements that they will be re-written to have your own party stamp. How do you do that, by stepping on so many boats, it's worth wondering. So the question is not what the Democratic Partnership will do, whether or not it will vote the law. We welcome SYRIZA, who is even too late for mussels, without the courage to accept his mistakes, comes and joins our positions. This is indeed a peculiar consensus. But it can't make you very happy. The creation and promotion of bilingual schools, which will provide all the facilities for accessing the universities of the host country as well as the Greek universities, are not. The placement of Mr Philadelphia and the effort to give a tone of optimism to the major issues of education is an ambitious one. But here, we have not even conquered the main issues of education. And I want you, Minister, who are the only one left in the Chamber - the Minister is just now coming - and in particular, the SYRIZA colleagues, to answer us if the results of the pan-Hellenic examinations have only led to the conclusion that they have been abolished. Aren't you, especially you on the left, worried about launching the military and police schools? Aren't you worried about the vertical fall of pedagogical schools? Does it not concern you that while we have two schools for special education teachers and your amendment, to come to this and to do so, will it be carried out only by mere teachers to complete their working hours? In what way will they teach? Please tell me, in a class of twenty-five children where there will be students with disabilities, refugees and ordinary students, what will a teacher do? Is that how you mean the upgrading of education? Does it not concern you, finally, the choice of the students not in the light of what they want to study, but how many miles from their home school? So what conclusions can one draw from all this? Firstly, our children tell us that the only solution for Greece of tomorrow is a place in the bald state and that is what they are seeking. We don't allow them to dream, we leave them no choice, and already the nightmare of Brain Drain has acted catalysts in whatever options they have made. Tomorrow's public school, for which there is so much talk, will have teachers presently introduced ten thousand molecules. The conclusions of yours. With this data, let us not talk about growth again, but only about its ghost, which has been deceiving over the country for too many decades. I won't dwell on the articles. There has been a lot of talk, it is true, in committee. I would like to comment on two points: the 28 which is about private education and the 36 which is about the education of refugees. And I start with 28. Of course we have radical differences with SYRIZA on education issues. For you, in fact, private education is the classic and ideological enemy. We want, and that is what we are planning, a public school where the knowledge offered and the learning process will compete with claims and exceed the education provided for each private school. As far as Article 36 is concerned, the Minister keeps his papers closed, he wants in white-white authority to decide everything. I don't know if it's sloppy or if it's a lack of any plan. However, centralization is a given and recalls other times of "decide and order". Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, many, it is a fact, they would like to believe that SYRIZA has been transformed, that it has become a modern European Left Party, which is making clear political speeches and positions which, with arguments, can defend. But you leave no room for it. SYRIZA is and remains the minor and irresponsible for the moment, the ruler of the political game, who wants it all and everyone at his side to praise him, mock his ears, forgive him his delusional and political deceit, watch, pay his fighters, and finally all of us waiting to grow up and decide what finally boat he wants to put the country. With this comment I close and suggest you see it as case study at your next conference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u146	Mr Theocharis Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we live in the SYRIZA regime, where the media are not entitled to criticize the government, the police are being beaten, excellence is retreat, and ultimately inability is synonymous with excellence. The illiterates in Maximus. That's what the Prime Minister's counsel says, Mr. Politidis, awkward! For 15 years the Greek governments have not been able to prepare a school in Munich, which the municipality now takes back. It's a cross-party incapacity. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that the Government and Census are choosing camps and staying in the sterile confrontation rather than trying to find solutions. We saw it in committee. The Government spoke as employee representative, the New Democracy in favour of owners of businessmen. What party, however, will represent the interests of parents, students and ultimately the very quality of the education provided? We lost the public good from our eyes, we finally lost the country. The attitude of the Greek state over time has been hypocritical to private education. Whenever governments want to collect, they remember being business. You all remember that crook last year with the VAT. But when they want to satisfy the ears of party friends, they convict her as transgression and commercialization of knowledge. What's private school? Assessment of educational and additional activities. You're killing them both. Remove them. It would be more honorable than what you're doing now. I denounce that at a training conference last Sunday you presented it to them as an editing session. We're breaking down private this afternoon, so where are the kids going? I'm in the care room. That's what you told them. How do you guarantee, Minister, the quality of private schools? By creating a permanent status for the workers? First of all, how do you measure the quality of education? Do you have any data on the performance? Do you know, for example, how, in the pan-Hellenic, the only unstable institution in the consciousness of the Greek people, which you say you will now abolish it, the average of private students is '15', from '14' experimental'and from '12' to '12'? You abolished the '14' of excellence of experimentants. You are now abolishing the "15" of private individuals. Everyone at the level of '12'! That's SYRIZA's plan. Whenever the rules are unduly strict, they lead to an increase in 'black' work. You will strangle the conscientious entrepreneur, the small private school, leave to their unintentional inconsistent and in the end the workers will report an increase in undeclared work. Have you read the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament? Expresses concern about whether it can judge the abuse of a dismissal by an institution in which the views of all parties are not heard. You have a public administration body to judge. Why? What do you fix? In the last two years of liberalisation in a total of nine thousand employees we have a hundred and thirty redundancies, 1,4%, in the crisis that the sixty thousand unemployed made them a million two thousand. Is that the problem? On the other hand, you, of course, are the owners who are not respecting the working rights of your employees. It is for you that the public teachers who are protesting on the issues of wages and salaries are taking place tomorrow. Minister, you said you'd put twenty thousand alternates in our schools. What kind of employment rights will they be employed? The schools must take you out of your hands, Mr. Friend, for the sake of the quality of education. This is a slogan that would be worth listening to: 'Down out of the schools'. Here and now, move on to a serious change, which will satisfy both sides and will be mainly in the interests of children and education. Set up an independent body to judge the legality and misuse of redundancies. Specify the assessors from the Quality Assurance Authority by the Institute of Education Policy and not by the Minister. Make a real change, which will serve what you are supposed to ask. To hear the views of all sides, but to judge an independent body with members of judges and teachers of education. The "black" work of the teacher is as important as that of the rest of the workers. The farm is always a farm. The galra is always a galaxy. Almost two years ago, you have done nothing and you regulate the industry that the ADR says has the lowest infraction: a violation of five hundred controls. Ladies and gentlemen, the four hundred twenty-seven thousand young people who migrated abroad are graduates from both private and public schools. You won't drag the country down. Soon you will leave and the education and the country will take the place they deserve. This, on the other hand, is Greek culture, education and culture. Soon, but by then some children will have paid for your uncertainties. In the name of them, in the name of our children, who are not your fault, democratic accountability will be fought, taking the responsibility you betray. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u148	Thank you. Mr Ioannis Saridis, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, I remain as I am ten months ago. I haven't changed. I walk around the streets, I talk to people, and I listen to people, mostly do this. Our fellow citizens have recently believed that the country is in danger, that Greece is being threatened with us. Some of them believe that it is at risk from the number of refugees, which is on the Asia Minor coast, ready to cross the Aegean and settle in Greece. Others believe that the country is threatened by uncontrolled and unsafe Turkey. Some people, fewer, are convinced that the country is threatened by NATO's aggressive policy in our neighborhood. Most of them believe that the country is threatened by our friends abroad, which, by allies and partners, have become demanding lenders, by their unexplained obsession with austerity and the imposition of numerous unfair measures, which do nothing else, lead nowhere but lead the world beyond its limits. Colleagues, Members of the Greek Parliament, like you and me, have sworn to take responsibility in the name of all the Greeks. And we did this very well, knowing that it is a greater right for a free man to take responsibility. By exercising my right and my obligation to speak from this stepma, I must warn you first and then our fellow citizens that Greece is not in danger from refugees, is not at risk from the neighbours, and much more is not at risk from NATO's aggressive policy in the region. He's not afraid of challenges, obligations, he's conscious. Greece has a base. Greece is at risk - and only then will it be at risk - because there is no guarantee that the Greek school will continue to be a school of Greek culture, a school of Greek language, a beacon of Greekism. One cannot sleep in peace having read this draft law here, which, with the votes of some people in here, might also become a state law tomorrow. I searched but found nothing and I did not get a assurance from anywhere that the orderly Greek state has done everything it is humanly possible, all it has to do to shield the Greek school, to equip it with what is necessary for it to cope with the attack of barbarity that the Greek society now suffers and which wins worldwide every day more and more fans, more and more ground. It comes closer to us at our door and passes through the door of our house. The ancient enemy of Hellenism is back here, he is outside our walls, the walls that we unfortunately did not break down to welcome our Olympians. I'm afraid we sent a wrong message to our friends and enemies, but much more we have sent a wrong message to our children. The message we send down the walls is powerful, it's simple, it's clear: We're not afraid of anyone and we don't need walls when we have Olympics between us. This is the heart of the Greek ideal, the absolute freedom, the right to take the responsibility of being completely free, that is the absolute teaching of Hellenism, of managing your freedom. That's all Greek civilization has to give it to you. Whether it is a purely Greek school, whether it is a bilingual Greek school, a private Greek school, a public Greek school or an experimental Greek school, we are talking about the Greek school. The Greek school is one, as is the Greek education. I must point out that there is no private or public education. There is private or public education. One is the Greek school and what we should be concerned about is how this school will achieve its goals every year. One would think that since a society has agreed for the purposes of its schools, what kind of people it wants to have as its members, then really the subject of the debate would be solely how these objectives are achieved each year and better. However, we in Greece have not decided, as the debate today shows, for the purposes of Greek education. I fear that the inability of the political system to deal with the issues of education as issues that determine the course of a nation may bring much greater blow to Hellenism than any other threat. How can we manage the Greek school to be a school of Greek culture? Has something been said today about this question in this Chamber? Unfortunately, no. We're inferior to the circumstances. It is only on paper that today's debate is about education. Because in practice the debate is micro-party and this bill concerns management matters, which have nothing to do with the needs of Greek education and the risks posed by Greek schools. A colleague from the Group of the Party of European Socialists spoke of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media. After the creative ambiguity we have in our negotiations on the economy, we also have the "unsatisfactory ambiguity" in the field of education. Why do you leave everything that makes sense, some substance, some weight in the hands of a minister? Why are you bringing us a bill of 50% authorization here? Why don't you just tell us the content of these ministerial decisions now? Education has been ruined by these ministerial decisions - and by those made overnight and by those that have never been taken. How many problems do you say in this bill how they will be solved by the Minister's decisions? Sit down and write a lot of beautiful words to describe the problem left by the previous speakers, for which it is of course not your fault, but the others. That's as good as it is. He accepts this to a certain extent and the Greek citizen, you know. He knows very well what previous people have done. It is not your job to deal with their political future. This, like yours, as well as mine, and everyone in this Chamber keeps it in their hands and the Greek people will judge it. Instead of telling us what the previous ones have done, look at what you are going to do. You've found a miserable situation that you have to deal with. We agree on that. But this is where your contact with Greek society stops. This is where the tolerance and tolerance of the Centron Union stops. Every day that passes, in power, the burden of your excuses is rapidly reduced as the previous ones are to blame. Every day that passes, you become absolutely responsible for what you inherited. The conversion of purely Greek schools into bilinguals is something that should have been done. No one disputes that. The fact that this will be done within arbitrary timescales, without the family being asked, for what the Minister wants and under the Minister's instructions, which we will inform after a celebration, is something that concerns us. The conversion of intercultural schools into experimental is also a good choice, but provided that the results of these experimental schools are made useful knowledge, the conclusions of which will be applied to all other schools. But this will also be done in accordance with the Minister's ministerial decisions. I'd like to get a little on the payroll case. It is good that the government puts an end to this unacceptable regime, where some lacked jobs from others, wicked thinking and making use of information received from various political offices. The price was the financial stimulus to allow them to unravel. They have also stated this sincerely. Eventually, however, these people never succeeded, because others who preferred, not because they were qualified above, but because they said they did not want to take the price. Those who did not ask for their application were simply better informed than others of their political friends or political offices, since there are states which, in the exercise of their own intercultural social policy, had incorporated funds into their budget for those foreign teachers who taught in their territory in bilingual schools. Thus, those who said they did not want the fine did so not because they could and had the opportunity, but because they looked forward to the collection of this money. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to use a little bit of my time of dentistry, Mr. President. We could say a lot about the articles. I'll be placed in my denture tomorrow, as long as I'm left of it. It's on the right track and Articles 2 and 5 and 6 and 7. Article 8 is part of it, I cannot say. In Article 9 we welcome the fact that the function and production of the standing committee will be unpaid. Articles 11, 12, 13 and 14 are on the right track. We agree on Articles 16 and 17. These two chapters were also the main body of the bill. But you, with your affectionate tactics, are messing things up. You added a third chapter, consisting of only one article in order to avenge and serve micro-party purposes. We say 'no' to Article 27 and to the retrospective engraving. You do not have the right to retroactive legislation or to retroactive collection of taxable profits by professional activity, violating any concept of good market practice and any concept of law. Proceed to withdraw or amend it in order to support it by the Central Association. What is provided for in Article 27 has nothing to do with education, with the Ministry of Education and Education. The Centres Association is voting against Chapter III, as Article 28 of Chapter IV says about private education. We've told you every ton, every chance we agree that education is not a marketable species. We have told you that we do not accept unjustified dismissals anywhere in any area, not just in private education. Nowhere do we at all accept unjust dismissals. In Article 28 we propose that the two years should be five years. Yeah, why not? However, dismissal in this five-year period will take place for a great deal of reason, whenever it is denounced during this period, and the political courts or committees of greater prestige and not party trade unionists will decide on this. Remove Article 28 as it stands and bring all private education issues to a bill. There is no problem with an article, as is also not the case with a law. Why not make a special debate exhaustive and scientifically based on what needs to be done on the function of teachers and the performance of their duties within the framework of the private initiative and of entrepreneurship? Why don't you come and discuss with each other openly as a society where the limits of one's and the other are? Because education is not a marketable product, but the way it is acquired is. I feel that I also need to make a special reference to what you are going to do to special education teachers with the relevant amendment. Do you go and equate the four years of study with a postgraduate degree? And let's hear your arguments about this equation, and if we accept them and they're valid and convince us, let's see it. But do you equate the same effort, the same effort of people who have taken part with full-blown tests to obtain the specific qualification, the specific teaching competence with teachers who do not have this teaching adequacy just to save resources? You have no reasonable argument. And we have no reason to support this decision. You're exposed to this. Using to legislate by believing that you are legislating for your party clientele or helping your educators. The educational system leading to the acquisition of education according to the Greek Constitution is a right for citizens to choose. However, the kind of system that will show confidence in giving their children the opportunity to acquire education, that is the right of parents. What this education should be should be the subject of our debate here today. As this is not the case, we as a Centro Association will vote 'at first', we will vote against the articles as analysed by our rapporteur and vote on what they indicate can contribute to a better tomorrow. We don't give you a white check. We're not allowed by our consciences. In my personal view, democracy itself does not allow us to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr. Ioannis Saridis. Mr Ioannis Stefos, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor and Mrs Merope Jufi is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a new school year begins and we must hope that it will be good for the children of private and public schools, their parents and the thousands of teachers. All the time that we have had discussions in both the Committees on Forums and in the plenary of this House, and today, as I have some other time realised, how deeply ideological the area of education for all of us is. I remember a few days ago, at the end of last month, before we closed for a few days, the public administration auditor, who said that in one day he found seventeen violations in a private school in Athens known and surnamed. He didn't mention it. He told us later. There's no reason for me to do this. This was after great difficulty and even on a day of celebration to avoid obstacles from people who did not allow entry to it. It's not something that lusts us or wonders us, or we heard it for the first time. It is something that we are trying with this bill to heal, to end with the working middle-ages of people offering education in an educational establishment and not in a business, because that is exactly how we understand that it is private schools. And these workers are teachers and the students, of course, are not customers, but they are students. I want to believe that this school year will be such a year that will disprove the agony of parties and many opposition colleagues in this Chamber. It will start very well for a simple reason, because some people in the Ministry worked, did the transfer in good time, in time, and very quickly they will do the recruitment of the deputy. So we will have the opportunity to enjoy all together the beginning of a school year as it should, on time. I have heard the new Republic's rapporteur say - and not much - that, because we will not be hiring alternates - which, incidentally, will be in the number of last year, about twenty-one thousand - we are reforming the timetable so that many teachers are left over, do not have what to do and bring the amendment on special education to which I shall refer. Of course, it's not like that. We're really reforming the timeline. Indeed, the full-day school will work properly. The panic does not occur in kindergartens, which, since June, some love Greek society. We certainly did not think in any way of firing them off, which Mr Mitsotakis did very easily a few years ago. So we exploit these public school teachers, the public teachers, the people who we trust them to educate our children, rationalizing the way in which the school operates. I remember the trade unions' reactions three months ago. There is now absolute silence, as if they fear the successful start of school year and perhaps some people fear it. I would like to focus in particular on the issue of special treatment, an issue that in recent years - let me have the popular expression - has a lot of bread for many, and many are rushing to take some special treatment hours, to do some special treatment seminars for them in the next few years. What exactly about the special treatment and why in the last few days have your emails been bombed with the agony of undetermined colleagues from the University of Macedonia and from the University of Thessaly? What exactly happened? We need nine thousand teachers who will provide public education services in structures related to disabled children. We have at our disposal from these universities two thousand three hundred, two and a half thousand. It was heard a moment ago by a previous speaker 'how a graduate degree in special education is legalized'. But he's had a general education before, he has a teacher's degree. He didn't come out of nowhere. So that means making use of human resources in education, and that is exactly what he has tried and is trying to do with this amendment, which will be voted on in the next few days, obviously tomorrow. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say from this Step forward and to conclude that there is no need to worry about colleagues who have given their souls to these children up to 16 years in a terrible system which the previous governments have supported, the system of alternates, in a disgraceful system, which I believe and I think we will manage in 2017 and 2018 to end it definitively. These people will be appointed to the structures of special education and the other teachers at the two levels of education, who have additional qualifications in special education, will be exploited in such a way that we can meet the needs of Greek society and our students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr. Stefo. Mrs. Merope Jufi has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I think that this bill should be seen as part of our broader plan to support and upgrade education in general with a return, as the Minister responsible said, in principle in normality. Our strategic plan is, in fact, the opposite of neoliberal policy and seeks to reform the educational system with innovative practices in the context of the values of the Left and its principles of democracy and equality, since nothing is more unequal than a school, but for children unequal. Our primary concern, therefore, is to alleviate social inequalities. In this context, and with this draft law, the priority is recorded - you will allow me to say with special concern and care - the educational integration of vulnerable social groups, migrants, refugees, children with special learning difficulties and disabilities. I shall, therefore, begin with the provisions concerning intercultural education, of which the immediate upgrade is urgent, since after five years of suffocating economic crisis there is - even minority - an increase in racist perceptions and extreme right-wing voices in the Greek society. The bill therefore includes basic arrangements aimed at deepening the existing institutional framework, in order to make it more operational, more effective and more intervening, by changing the specific educational and teaching programmes and teaching tools and books, with the aim of eliminating negative discrimination, so that cultural, national, linguistic and religious differences can be treated uniformly and in a similar way. In this direction schools become experimental intercultural in order to be able to form centres for the production of applied educational policy by gradually transforming them into bilingual schools and not areas for the production of sterile research findings. In the spirit of intercultural education and the equivalence of cultures, Article 38 is also granted legislative authorisation to the Ministry to regulate issues relating to the education of refugees. And here there was a lot of criticism because this is entrusted to the Ministry of Education and the answer is that it can only do so quickly, properly and effectively, as required by the unprecedented circumstances we face, but after study and evaluation of many aspects, by making use of the knowledge and experience of a fully representative scientific committee in cooperation with other relevant ministries, but also with the Institute for Education Policy. It seeks, therefore, for the school year - and these have been announced and I wonder why various colleagues say that they have not heard what we are considering - in a valid and pedagogical way to join the Greek educational system of at least eighteen thousand applicants. In fact, the integration of three thousand unaccompanied adolescents has been announced in a special pilot project in technical education in cooperation with KANEP/GSEU, while NGOs, church, local ELMEs, nationalities associations can help in education in the mother tongue, subject to certification and registration at the Institute of National Education Policy. On the other hand, the recruitment of trainers will be based on objective criteria from the list of alternates. More specifically, in the prefecture from which I come the size of hospitality spaces and the number of children who host it appears to allow for the creation of reception classes in neighbouring schools and the movement of children to them. And wherever they need to, they can open up and reopen schools, which were closed because of a lack of students, which local communities are also asking for. And I move on very quickly to the subject of special education and training, which is tabled by an amendment, which, as has already been said, promotes the principles of cohesion and the'school for all'. In this context, it tries to regulate, first and foremost, the issues that concern educational staff, but above all by upgrading vocational training units, since it introduces the single vocational school and high school. It cannot be disputed that special education is a priority of the government's political choices, since last year the recruitment to special education has increased by 45% and this year - after eight years - many new sections of integration have been set up in schools throughout the country, namely, in crisis conditions and budgetary pressure there is an increase of 20% in the integration departments and 8% in special schools, while at the request of both parents and children themselves and twelve age classes in existing special vocational schools. Finally, I would like to refer to the regulations on private education and the amendment on language schools and centres, for which very long and productive discussion took place in the previous committees. These provisions in fact mark the efforts of the Government to protect social rights against the attacks on the market and the effort to safeguard democracy. It is precisely those which have been called by some, elegant, our political opponents "experience" or "sovietalization". What are we really doing? To restore self-evident. So what? The supervision of private education in the Ministry of Education, namely, to regulate the control of uninsured and undeclared work in the field of private education, training hours in schools, official holidays and, above all, adequate justification for the dismissal of teachers from private schools. What are these rules trying to do? They are ambitious to put an end to phenomena - where there are - employers' arbitrariness, 'black' work, tax evasion, illegal qualifications, distortions of ratings, as well as to ensure conditions of quality, legality, transparency and democracy in the school environment of private schools, for children and for their parents who choose them. I conclude, therefore, by saying that the implementation of the overall reconstruction plan is certain that it takes time, provision of transitional steps and testing applications. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The only way to directly limit the disastrous consequences and the paths of education policy of the past, is to pass laws - this is a first step - which will cover every time the inconsistencies and contradictions of the previous years, but at the same time ensure the quality reconstruction of public education at all levels, as a social asset, developed in the public area, is protected by the Constitution and not a commercial asset sold and purchased by people - consumers. And in this field let me say that the processed positions of the left-wing area are widely accepted, despite the agonizing efforts at high tones with the wisdom of the representatives of the New Democracy and, unfortunately, of the PASOK, to defend the schoolmasters or even the middlemen, in a social reality which, as a result of the multi-faceted crisis, is open more than any other period in accepting proposals to overcome the drowning present and this is also the draft of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Jufi. Mrs Eleni Aylonitou, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, in today's draft legislation on Greek-language education, intercultural education and other provisions, I would like to focus particularly on the issues of private education and the regulation of the labour relations of teachers. Private schools provide education within the Ministry of Education programme and give qualifications fully recognized by the State. They are private businesses, but they do not produce a product of their choice. They provide training with the standards laid down by the public. They perform a public function under the supervision of the State, a function protected by Article 16 of the Constitution. In education, public and private, the role of teacher is crucial. Teachers define more than anyone else the quality of the education provided, and this does not change either the school programs or the technical means or the fine buildings. "With any teacher you sit with, you will learn such letters." Since the ancient times this has been a constant feature of every educational system. The teacher must have the quality of knowledge of the subject, which he teaches, but that is not enough. He must still have a communication ability, an interest in reaching passion for his work, a strong personality that inspires students. He must also be able to dedicate himself to his work, which includes not only the hours of teaching in the room, but also the hours of preparation for the course in general and for each student in particular. He must still enjoy respect for the society in which he lives, because without it he cannot do his job. It can't be morning teaching at school and at night sharing pizzas. Because the student will see his teacher or he'll see the pizza. So the teacher, whether he works in public education or in private, must enjoy decent working conditions. These decent working conditions want to ensure Article 28 of the bill, in order to respond to a previous Member, by providing that teachers in private education, after a two-year trial period, will work on an indefinite contract which cannot be solved without a clear, serious and legitimate reason. So the teacher won't be subject to extortion to share gifts or to work with a virtual salary. It will not be forced to participate in tax evasion. Did you hear that, gentlemen of counterpopulation? He won't have to do his job to live. And it will not, at the same time, make the pizza even if it would be tolerable and perhaps desirable by those here who consider it to be the highest value to secure the profits of every chimpanzee, who is the businessman in any area. But is that how the administrative right of private schools owners is to be abolished? Are private teachers turning into civil servants? No management right shall be abolished, provided that the dismissal is provided for and allowed for serious objective reasons. It remains easier to dismiss a private teacher than to dismiss a civil servant. However, there is a need for objective justification that is not a means of extortion. However, it is a impression that the protests of those who are invoking the absolute management right to private education, because these companies do not provide an autonomous product. Is there any private school, which would have even a student-client if he would only sell the knowledge he provides, without the right to provide publicly recognized qualifications? Would private entrepreneurs prefer that old system - will the older ones remember it - decades ago when their graduates had to give tests to the public after their graduation for them to be accredited? I doubt it. In a similar direction, the amendment on care centres, which stipulates simply Greek that teachers in schools will not work free of charge. Of course, in here there are parties, which almost only have reason to work for free for almost all the workers. So for principle reasons they cannot support such an amendment. I get it. Call it, then, loud enough for the whole world to hear you, don't let anyone else know about it. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill, therefore, could have a title 'About the right of workers to be paid when they work'. And, of course, I am voting at the outset and on the articles today's bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Alonitou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u158	Yes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u159	It is a legislative improvement for the participation of a representative of the Ecumenical Patriarchate, a education and culture specialist, to the body responsible for coordinating foreign-language education.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u160	Very good. To be submitted and to share with colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Consola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that a very important bill today is being discussed at the National Representation and I sincerely would expect that the government will take this opportunity and with this bill to have a wider spirit of cooperation and understanding on education issues. We were very early and, I believe, valid when we were shouting that in the context of the national dialogue on education we should discuss matters seriously, such as what the bill wants to discuss. However, the government did not take the opportunity and unilaterally tabled a very important bill, which could have been dedicated to the education of Greeks abroad, and on that, Minister, you have a number of issues that could be a special chapter for discussion at the National Representation. I'm sure it's beyond the will of the Minister, Mr. Pegliny. However, this bill - and we are obliged to focus on some issues - does not solve the problems of Greek-language education abroad. On the contrary, it even prolongs some of them and creates additional issues. It is not the first time, ladies and gentlemen, that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, in particular Mr Tsipras's government, reveals its intentions for the dreadful partnerships that characterise it to the Greeks abroad. Moreover, if this government really wanted to focus its attention on these compatriots, it would have to bring to the debate the issues relating to the vote of the Greeks abroad. He hasn't done it yet. So, in the same work, we are also on the issues of Greek-language education. Before we move on to the development of purely Greek schools abroad in bilinguals - certainly, I must stress from the outset that we are consensual and consider it to be extremely positive - should have a framework of understanding either with specific transnational agreements between the Greek Government and the foreign governments where there are homosexuals either with clear commitments to the fate or the evolution of the purely Greek-language schools, which since 2018 have been very afraid will not be in the prospect of resurrecting them. On the contrary, I fear that a lot of them will be closed. We all realise how important it can be for the development of purely Greek schools abroad in bilingual schools, Minister. That's true. But what about bilingual schools? See, for example, in Germany, where a promoted country with a very important educational system requires what? I fear that these schools, which we are talking about today at the National Representation, will lead them to devastatement, since their graduates cannot go to higher education institutions except technical schools or apprenticeship schools. Ladies and gentlemen, a truly upgraded bilingual school is what gives access to the higher education of those in it. There is no set of preconditions, ladies and gentlemen, which this bill shows in this context. On the contrary, I am afraid that in a few moments Greeks abroad, especially for Germany, which we are discussing today, will be in German and only schools, in purely German schools. In any case, this is not something that we wish and seek, but we should connect security keys, so that education, education and culture, which many of you from this Stepma have discussed today, are the prerequisite for connecting the nation - state to a real prospect of its sustainability abroad. After all, I would also like to remind you at this point that the government seems to be continuing to hold ideological intrusions in this bill, because, for example, the choice of foreign officials is on the same basis as internally. Ladies and gentlemen, time is inconsistent. I want to stand by the other parameter of the bill, which is about private education. A lot has been discussed about this parameter. I would, however, like to sincerely refer to this provision that creates a climate of unrest in private education, but also constitutes an extreme ideological character in terms of altering the concept of private education, which we have experienced for so many years in the country. It is a pretext that the government is allergy to three, in particular, concepts that we have discussed, and the rapporteur has said, that is, excellence, dignity and evaluation. He has shown this in the past with other bills. It is no coincidence that these three values are trying to eliminate and exterminate them from the field of education. Instead of creating a wider climate in terms of evaluation at all levels of education, the government is attempting with this bill to cancel both the concept of evaluation and private education. Of course, the worst thing is that this is trying to impose administrative measures in the field of private education. However, because I also know very well from colleagues on the left, as far as their arguments are concerned, about the distortion that white is trying to make and demonize private education. You will allow me to point out that the working rights which many colleagues invoke, but also the leadership of the Ministry in terms of private education, are absolutely respected. We all respect them, and there are laws that protect employment rights. But employment rights do not include the abolition of evaluation. It does not include the cancellation of the right of a private school's address to ensure that the quality of education is upgraded. This is what you are doing on the allegedly invoking the employment rights of teachers in private education. The good and the excellent teacher, who works in a private education unit, does not need prostates. We all know that. It is desirable, since the private schools seek them, the excellent teachers. They seek to strengthen quality so that they can attract students. They seek to have such teachers. However, you do not allow them to replace a teacher who does not perform the standards they set themselves. According to the institutional framework, which was in place until now, a private school could terminate the contract with the teacher during the first year. After two years, the contract was converted into an indefinite contract. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, allow me to speak for just a minute. You are now coming by the provision you are bringing to the vote and you are enacting the ban on the termination of the contract within two years. In other words, if a teacher does not prove appropriate in the first year or months, he will be inaccurate in his place. In fact, this is how the poor and inappropriate teacher is protected and legalised for the two years. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is a violation of labour rights, there are laws to enforce the law. However, these provisions do not constitute a working right. With mathematical accuracy, the number of redundancies will rise at the end of the two-year period.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u163	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u164	I shall conclude, Mr President. Let me also refer to a reference by IOBE, who submits the view that 350m euros per year from the taxpayer Greek citizen are saved in the interests of the operation of private schools. In conclusion, Mr President - and I thank you for your tolerance - let me refer to paragraph 4 of the amendment, concerning the right of graduates of the Single Professional School in Higher Education. Minister, as far as these schools are concerned, we should give a broad interpretation of the number. Because in island areas, as far as this number is concerned, it is very difficult to move a child from one island to another, there should be tolerance and regulation - adaptation to students, that is, to eight maxims and from two to four students per specialty, in order to operate these schools in the school year ahead. In any case, these proposals, Minister, I believe that they are a framework of convergence and consensus and I think they will find understanding from the head of the Ministry of Education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr. Consola. Mr. Antony Gregos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. One of the greatest lies the SYRIZA representatives have told and inside and out of the House is that all those who illegally enter our homeland daily want to leave here and go to another country. That's a big lie. Quite simply, where will they find better than here? The Greek Government has promised them security, health, education with the bill now, employment, social security and everything else a Greek citizen is entitled. Speaking of redundancies, it is good that some 'trainers' - in many introductory words 'trainers' - will be of some specific CONTROL and OLME, who have no job but to accuse the Golden Dawn, of disciplinary control, Minister, of this behaviour. It's a fascist behavior on the part of these teachers. We also denounce this from the Step of the House. I cannot, of course, begin by commenting on the speech made by the Minister of Friends, from which I distinguished the following laughter. He talked about a poor public school. He should know that schools become poor for many reasons, such as when spending is cut down because of the memorials, which you have signed wide, when you apply customer relations, and you fight the concept of excellence, when especially when you consider the ancient Greek language to be dead, when they are taught in other countries. The poor become schools, when apart from knowledge they do not offer national ideals to pupils and later citizens. You called for a national dialogue on education. The right thing would be a dialogue on national education, something unheard of of of course for you. And of course we won't have a dialogue with you about this. The Minister spoke of Memorandum Governments. But you're the most memorial government doing all the foreign loan sharks' commands. With regard to the working conditions, now, which prevail not only in the mathematics but also in every sector of workers, I would like to say that this is directly related to the economy, an economy that collapses from your wrong choices. Of course, we do not see you effectively fighting the gauging economy in education, but in general. In fact, there has also been a complaint in the Committee on Morphic Affairs. As far as the issue of fake diplomas is concerned, justice and the competent authorities will of course decide, but that, Minister, is also a moral issue. The Minister also spoke of solidarity shown by Greek society to the refugees against you. That was the first time. Now the Greeks are asking for protection from their criminal acts, which are daily and which are also racist. In my last speech before the end of the session I said that in the boats coming from Turkey there are 12 to eighteen years old children who have military training and are determined for everything. You saw what happened in Turkey with the twelve-year-old terrorist. Also, you saw twelve - year - old children performing hostages. If such a child enters a school, it can cause a massacre, which is enough. For what happens in schools, you'll be solely responsible. You talk about learning Greek and English and assimilation. None of them wants to assimilate and disown their religion and culture, no matter how many generations pass. I also said in my last speech - and I say it, because we are always talking about evidence and evidence - that the flow of illegal immigrants has increased. Minister Kammenos was then shouting that they are zero, which is something the SYRIZA Members also advocated. Four hundred thirty in just one day! You're saying you saved money for their transportation, food and education. Even visits to museums and libraries are announced. Most of them are known for museums and historical monuments. We saw it in Palmyra, from the desecration of our temples. Of course, the Minister said nothing about the disgusting image of the Greek universities, which a comparison with the universities abroad is a disgrace - for the facilities and not for the spiritual potential. With regard to a very important issue, such as Greek-language education, over 50% of government spending on support has been reduced. The result is the huge shortages in educational staff and logistics. Thus, especially in Germany, Greek schools will be closed or merged. This has also been pointed out in the Committee on the Hellenism of the Dispersion, but nothing has happened. Even the seats of Greeks that exist in various universities abroad are now financed only by sponsoring Greeks of the diaspora. It is also necessary that the children of the Greek expatriates should receive Greek education, that they should learn Greek history, language, customs and customs of our country. We've heard a lot about special lawsuits from the Minister. We have also heard of recruitment, as well as about the right to be treated in specific sectors. Here I will submit to you a letter from a member of the Association of Qualified Degrees, as well as a proposal from the Association of Qualified Degrees. You have also received similar mail. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antony Gregos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These days everyone deals with the permits they will take or will not take the 'bothcannales'. Beyond the flagrant illegal HPAI, there are other things much worse, such as the ones we have spoken of on several occasions in and out of Parliament. This is about the bills you bring, such as the one with the most famous Articles 36 and 38, which you are trying with New Democracy, the immediate Islamisation of our country with a time limit until 2019. It's an organized plan you've drawn up and implemented. Voicing the will of almost all Greeks we believe and demand that the lesson of Greek history, true Greek history, teaching the ancient Greek language and secretarial at all levels of education, compulsory sports education for Greek youth with the choice of individual or group sport from the first classes. We are in constant contact with teachers, who are defending ideas, and fortunately many are. We are actively involved in the Parents and Princess Associations in order to directly control what is happening in schools. Mostly, as parents, we are informed by our children of what can be said in a schoolroom, we are checking the curriculum, especially in young ages, in order to teach the children about the gangrene of multiculturalism and internationalism. We don't trust our child's knowledge to any Friends and to any tutorial tutor, we know their purpose very well and to inform both children and parents. The start of the new school year will find us united and determined against your plans. Greek schools belong to the Greek people. This must be heard by the morning Christian prayer, by the sanctification and vindication of the flag. Whoever doesn't like it can go to his country. If he doesn't like to go and fight for another country and not demand that we change for him. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] We will fight for our children and for the children of our children, as we have done so far. Next to us, the proud Greek youth supports us in our every step, because for our future we will decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u167	The reason is now SYRIZA's parliament, Mr. Panayota Dricelli, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I enter the particular issues of the bill, which we have analysed several times in the relevant committees, I would like very briefly to address the issues of planning the start of the new school year, which begins next week. Obviously, we all hope that this will be the first time that, in recent years, the public school will begin with the least possible gaps, with books already in schools, where they are, and without downgrades and abolitions of school units. This new school year starts with qualitatively upgraded public education and we should all recognise that when it happens. They have heard quite a lot, mainly from the Qualifications Disparity during the debate on the draft law in the committee. All material discussion on the state of education has been requested. Today may also be the opportunity to make a first general statement on the organization and planning of the Ministry of Education for the new school year. So it might also be useful to compare today's picture to that of at least the last four years, where we in the Summer Departments had to discuss with extremely pressurized time crucial issues. We all remember, for example, how we discussed the educational changes in the so-called new high school at the time. One day before the beginning of a course students did not know which system they would be considered for admission to university. Similarly, all the previous years until the last minute there were no credits for surrogates, books were not in place, while hundreds of schools were merged and closed by creating huge problems for students and teachers. All these issues make the qualitative difference between the educational rule of previous years and the present one quite clear. We have to stress that. With regard to the specific issues of this draft law, two extremely important and critical educational areas are regulated: Greek-language education abroad and intercultural education, which are also the central areas of intervention of this legislative initiative. In these two areas, the arrangements are extremely positive because they mainly contribute to the upgrading of critical aspects of public education on the basis of the most modern theories of educational science. In Greek-language education abroad, the intervention of the Ministry of Education is mainly in two main directions, incorporates the most modern educational developments and institutionalizes the transition to bilingual education for the children of the Greek family. On the other hand, it maintains and upgrades Greek schools abroad to support Greek children whose families have been forced to emigrate abroad, mainly in recent years, because of the economic crisis. In this way, a framework of flexibility and transparency is introduced in the operation of Greek schools abroad, with the main objective of strengthening Greek knowledge of education and strengthening its effectiveness. As far as intercultural education is concerned, I would like to say that this draft law is also moving on this subject as the most modern assumptions of educational science. The institution of intercultural education is being upgraded and at the same time follows new social developments. Today most schools in the country, particularly in the large urban centres, are multicultural, and interculturalism is essential in this context for their educational programme. With the provisions of this bill, all the schools in the country will be able to promote intercultural education, thus expanding a successful educational institution and combining it with the principles of cohesion and integration. However, the bill also raises another crucial issue, which was the first debate in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media. The Ministry of Education regulates a very significant gap in relation to private education. It restores an adequate framework of supervision to the functioning of private schools, with a view to limiting the immunity established with the previous government. The credibility of private education requires the existence of a public control framework in its operation and in the working relationships of teachers working in it. Without this context, the working jungle can affect the quality of the education provided and affect the education item as a whole. It is incomprehensible, therefore, why some opposition parties even at the very last moment act as school lawyers and some officials so openly support the interests of those who want private education to remain a "black hole" of labour rights. It is, of course, even more incomprehensible that the same political forces, seeking supposedly education excellence, are today bailing out the immunity of certain schoolchildren, against the abolition of practical avengeral dismissals of teachers, against the control of the functioning of private education institutions by the same bodies they control and the functioning of public education. Our perspective on this is, of course, clear and stable over time. No educational institution in the private sector can operate without public supervision, without a framework for labour relations and of course without control of the quality of the education provided. This control is an obligation of the State and no financial pressure can outweigh the public interest and the credibility of education as a whole. In this direction we will continue to go as we started with this legislative initiative and with the next ones coming. The government has shown that it is determined to complete a very great effort to reconstruct the educational good as a whole. The efforts of certain circles to oppress this course are certain that they will not thrive, and of course citizens are sure that, after at least five years of dismantling public education but also deregulation of private life, the educational reality in the country will be improved every day. The government is implementing a large programme of educational progressive reforms and its results are already visible. This effort will continue with unsatisfactory intensity so that the educational system of the country acquires a new dynamic and contributes decisively to the economic and social progress of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Drichelli. Mrs. Georgia Genia, SYRIZA Parliamentary, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today Parliament is discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the subject: 'Agreements on Greek-language education abroad, intercultural education and other provisions'. The first chapter re-establishes the legislative framework for Greek-language education abroad. This regulation is necessary for two main reasons. Firstly, the issue is a key issue for the organised presence of Greek education, language and culture abroad, as well as for the support of the Greeks of the Diaspora and their links with Greece. Secondly, because there is a need to stimulate and promote the interconnection of the Greek culture with the humanitarian and democratic attitude of modern societies. The Greek state is called upon to coordinate with modern educational, social and economic reality. There is therefore an undeniable need to redesign Greece's policy in the field of Greek-language education abroad, in the light of up-to-date and up-to-date assumptions regarding the targeting, pursuit, means and results expected. There are serious problems that run and are abrupt in the long and misuse of the institutional framework that produced opacity, waste and maladministration. The practices of diffuse and uncontrolled disposal of resources, educational and money to bodies without design, control and confirmation of any kind of results are found to fail to train the children of Greeks abroad and lead to the Greeks of Dispersion in isolation. It is very important that the issues of Greek language and culture are now regulated, in which teaching can also be carried out by means of new technological information and communication. Among other things, a permanent Committee on Cooperation is recommended and unpaid for the dissemination of Greek and foreign culture. The second chapter introduces rules on intercultural education, which deal with the removal of cultural inequalities. Fellow colleagues, over the past five years it has been noted that the expansion of the economic consequences of the crisis has been accompanied by the reappearance and strengthening of extreme right-wing extremism and racist perceptions and practices in Greek society. This phenomenon had its equivalent at the same time in education, with the characteristic symptom of increasing incidents of racist violence, in a limited number of school units, I have to admit, as the annual reports of the Child's Counsel have seen, among other things. Thus, among other things, the aims of intercultural education and the means by which they are pursued are defined, while existing schools of intercultural education according to Law 1566/1985 are now being transformed into experimental schools of intercultural education. The Multilateral Plan shall also be amended or supplemented by the provisions of the existing legislation on primary and secondary education. This is how problems in private education are addressed, and the working relationships and working conditions of teachers are regulated. In particular, Article 28 expressly provides for the conditions and conditions for the termination of the fixed-term or indefinite contract between teachers and owners of private schools. Since the provision of a stable employment status to teachers is directly linked to the quality of the educational work they provide, both for the benefit of the educational community and the social system, private schools owners cannot carry out unintentional and unrestricted complaints of private education contracts. It is also forbidden to license foreign language centres in private primary and secondary schools. They are ensured, protected and supported by small and medium-sized enterprises, which would be impossible to compete with large and economically stronger companies. At the same time, full-time weekly hours at language schools and centres are set at twenty-one hours, giving twenty-fifths of the month. We understand what that means to the funds. As regards the amendment on special education and training, the issues which concern it - and here I shall speak as a teacher - are many and are very sensitive. The solution to be given in this area must be comprehensive and not fragmentary, with full consciousness of our debt to the children who are in the OSCE schools. I have already submitted a report to the Ministry of Education. I consider it fair for graduates to apply for special treatment to serve in OSH schools. I am covered, however, by the Minister in his speech and by the time these departments exist, we must also respect the graduates. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Adamantios Korais, a state that has no education is built on the sand. As a government we want to create the school of the future, the school that will create bridges of communication between people regardless of social order, ethnic and cultural identity, respecting the specificity and uniqueness of man, the school that will show virtues and transcend flaws, combating racism and preparing our children in a society of equality and equality, the school that will favour initiative, research, which will encourage dialogue and creativity. A high mission has been assigned to education by society and the state to create integrated personalities, but unfortunately - and I will speak from experience - there are moments when the teacher feels alone, without being able to transform his visions, in front of bad educational policies. After all, they were the ones who established, among other things, the forced memorization, exhausting and continuous exams - the joy of misconduct! - a huge volume of curriculum material, under the expectations of detailed programs and clipbooks, under the medium. Fortunately, however, we are dealing with souls, with faces who smile at you and thirst for learning. We love them, and this relationship of love becomes two-way, and this is the happiness of the teacher. Our obligation is to change the bad text and that is what we are doing. Our obligation is to fight for the new generation and not hand over faded visions. It's our debt. For these reasons, because I see that something is changing, I am also voting in favour of the bill in principle and on the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Gennay. Last speaker for today is Mr Kostas Gavroglou, SYRIZA Member. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. The big question, as we have repeatedly said, particularly in the process of exiting the crisis, is to be able to shape a new normality. We say this, but it is not clear whether it is understood, because a new regularity cannot only be formulated through laws or ministerial decisions. New regularity requires social and political consensus, requires a silent agreement that we respect the rules of law and coexistence. But look at what has happened lately. Private schools and schools a few months ago, when we discussed VAT, they said that they are not normal businesses, so they should not be applied to them. But when they want to have freedom of redundancies today, they forget that and they say that they are businesses that need to see their own good. So far it has been with responsible statements whether all the hygiene rules in schools, the fire safety rules, etc. are being respected. Now they go engineers and check and find up to 80% of schools having problems and now they don't want to play with the rules of the game. In universities, there is a proportion of teachers who have enriched themselves because of their private profession, but their enrichment is due to the fact that they redeem their university. They are legally required to deposit a percentage of their profits to the universities. They don't. It cannot be the rule of new normality that is the rule that says 'only - scale, I win'. There's no such rule. That was the rule that led us here that led us. This bill puts a classroom, tries to 'normalize' things, that is, what is self-evident. It's nothing more than that. With that logic, we do not want to incriminate all private schools or all schools. But is it possible for young children - which we are all cutting for young children - when they go to school to get less than 3 euros an hour, the equivalent to their insurance contributions? However, the main element of a society in which different political and social forces can coexist is that a piece of politics cannot defend the right to dismissal and not the right to work. So here we are in the face of an absurd phenomenon where a huge range of political forces defend the right to dismissal and not the right to decent work. A second issue we must address after the question of regularity is the redefinition of two very serious issues in our society. One is the redefinition of the public sector and the second is the redefinition of what constitutes a social function. The concept of social function cannot be advantageous by bureaucraticizing daily lives in schools, universities or elsewhere. Obviously, the bill is trying to put a class in what various colleagues have spoken with great discretion and systematic speaking. Is everything okay? Obviously, it's not all right. There are extremely serious problems that even undermine these self-evident ones. We shouldn't hide behind our finger. For example, the agglomeration that occurs is a paralytic phenomenon in our society. No one would say "the SYRIZA was then cultivating it" etc. If you want us to have this historical conversation, we can do it. But no one is poor of these phenomena. Secondly, the issue of the inertia of the acquired persons. I myself am very much in favour of acquired property in massive terms, in acquired property, etc., but always in a new social and historical context. The inertia of the possessed, and this is one thing that doesn't take us much forward. I would like to mention a few points, Mr President, on a point which is becoming a ball in this Chamber. There are political forces who consider themselves to be owners of the concept of evaluation and of forces considered to be afraid to say that word. That's not the point. The evaluation is certain that this must be done. The question is, what conditions must be met. Because when assessing school units, the government's obligations should also be assessed if the government has given what it must have given to schools, if it has done the appropriate training, etc. So the evaluation cannot be unambiguous. Let us discuss the evaluation, but let us not think that some of us are afraid of evaluation and some are owners of this assessment. I conclude by replying to Mr Harakopoulos, who is usually very careful. Unfortunately, in the field of introductorys you have fallen outside. What about the Imports? We have a global originality. The Introductory System has canceled the last two classes of school. This is nowhere in the world. So what we're saying is we're stepping up the last two grades of high school. Examinations of a pandemic character take place in the school, so there is no need for introductory examinations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u173	With a business bank, Professor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u174	There are infinite ways. The theme bank is one of them. I personally think there are many others. The topic bank, if you remember, has led to a strange codification of the knowledge provided. So it wasn't a solution to the matter bank. What we must all agree - and I am sure you will agree - is this: firstly, that the last two grades of high school are not available. They're canceled. So we find a way to upgrade them and upgrade them in a way that these pathogens of the introductory examinations will be stopped and, in essence, children will be evaluated within the school at a pan-Hellenic level. They are systems too much in Europe, and that is where we have to go. One last thing and I close, really: There is one topic and it has been said that with what we are going to do, with care centres and private, etc., the "black work" will blossom the many who teach families and go and don't cut evidence etc. Look, society needs to be self-sufficient. I mean, if society as a whole is co-responsible for making scams, you can't in every house have a cop outside to see if the professor comes to teach the kids without proof. We are therefore making an appeal: people should rely on public teachers, on teachers as a whole, including those who do educational work in schools at this stage and should not try to cancel the school today in Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr Gabroglou, last speaker for today. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs bill is hereby declared a little further: 'Conregulations on Greek-language education, intercultural education and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u176	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u177	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u178	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u179	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u180	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u181	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u182	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u183	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u184	The draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Conregulations on Greek-language education, intercultural education and other provisions" was accepted in principle by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Friday 3 June 2016, Monday 6 June 2016, Thursday 9 June 2016 and Friday 10 June 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u185	The minutes of Friday 3 June 2016, Monday 6 June 2016, Thursday 9 June 2016 and Friday 10 June 2016 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-30-S1-commons.u186	The meeting for Wednesday, August 31, 2016, at 10 a.m., on the subject of the House's work: Continue the debate on the articles, amendments and all and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Consolidations on Greek-language education, intercultural education and other provisions".
