ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and a vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: 'Following the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, on Iceland's participation in the joint response to the commitments undertaken by the European Union, its Member States and Iceland in the second commitment period, in accordance with Doha's amendment to the Kyoto Protocol, ratified by Mr Kyoto. Regulation (EC) No 4335/2015 (A148), the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change ratified by Mr. Regulation (EC) No 3017/2002 (A'117).’; The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. Does a colleague want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, may I have the floor for one comment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u3	You have no objection as a party, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u4	I would like to speak on a point of order, Mr President. May I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u5	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we as a New Democracy agree in the context of the two sanctions. The question raised is just one: if there are any amendments by the government. We want to know whether amendments are tabled during the procedure. It is something we want to know in advance. Otherwise, we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u7	There is no amendment tabled, Mr Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u8	The question therefore is whether the government intends to table or accept another amendment from Members. We want to know if that is the case, because otherwise we agree - as our rapporteur will tell you - and we have no other issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u9	Let's go to the non-consensuals now, let's say that. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u10	The committee is concerned that profits are lowering the environment, but we must take measures to protect it. And that justified the agreement in these circumstances. Of course, it is not even the man who counts. But we don't stay with your hands crossed. For example, many unions claim sectoral collective agreements as a response to individual impoverishment contracts and payment. Or there are mobilizations for Tritsis Park, where state funding has been shrinking over the last decade. The payroll of three workers shall not be guaranteed either. It is degraded, it is abandoned - to justify its commercialisation and tradition to individuals - this place of recreation, green, culture, free-use sport, which has been conquered and is a matter for the people's movement, which is why it has not even gone into the jaws of entrepreneurs. Or even in Keracini, a multi-ethnic telecommunications antenna operates a few meters from primary and high school and youth housing. What does it mean? That we're going to wait for a change of order in power to be definitively removed? No, of course not. The popular movement is fighting, fighting in all conditions, to prevent the worst, to get stolen conquerions back. It puts a prospect of overthrowing the exploitation system, so that the people can be well well-beed. And we come to the treaty. International climate conditions in the last few decades we have had: Rio, Johannesburg, Kyoto, Doha and others. Did they reduce the pollutants on the planet? No, because the mechanisms are based on polluting trade, which means that the industries, instead of paying to install anti-pollutant technology for fewer pollutants in the atmosphere, buy the right to bomb it with more pollutants. In fact, there are free allocations of millions of tonnes of carbon dioxide in monopolies. Many people are talking about a failed "Kioto". These decisions, therefore, did not prevent the thirst of millions of people, hunger, death, epidemics, natural disasters, which could be avoided, nor the consequences of the imperialist wars. Nor will they be treated with the Paris Conference, because at the heart of it is to ensure new profitability in monopolies from new business sectors. That is why, if you would like, hundred and thirty investors running thirteen trillions, they asked the G20 to ratify the Paris Agreement to speed up their investments. I mention them because on the same line is the ratification of the European Union's current agreement with Iceland. All these decisions and agreements on climate change are nothing but contradictions and temporary compromises of imperialist centres in setting targets that exploit climate change as an opportunity to make profitable penetration of multinational groups into new markets. Contrasts are manifested in international climate conferences and in international agreements, in laws protecting global, Euro-Union and nationally the great property on Earth, the wealthy sources, the concentrated means of production. The capitalist system, which rotates, is a background to the emergence of huge, technological disasters and to the military, imperialist, military interventions of the United States, the European Union and their allies, to competition with Russia, China, Asia and Africa, which destroy, rip out hundreds of thousands of people, monuments of global cultural heritage, plant and animal wealth, infrastructure. Every day, therefore, the dramatic contradiction between the people's expectations of stopping exploitation, destruction, environmental degradation and life on the planet is clearer on the one hand and the interests of the multinationals, capitalist states, their imperialist alliances on the other. This is why environmental protection cannot be dealt with independently of the incentive to produce. Capitalist development, the "just" development, as the government calls it, is the same as ensuring the profitability of capitalists, which presupposes exploitation, the pillaging of the wealth generated by workers, their rights and the environment, the natural resources of the Earth. The Kyoto 'polluter pays' principle despairs profit-driven pollution. That is the logic of today's ratification of the agreement, which we are voting against, although it is typical. The environmental hypocrisy and mockery of today's SYRIZA - ANEL government is on the same line as all previous governments, since it obsessesses that the cause of environmental problems is the capitalist development path itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u11	Mr Panayotarus has asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Panayotare, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to speak of both sanctions concerning Iceland and Saudi Arabia. As far as ratification of the agreement between the European Union and Iceland is concerned, we said'residents' to the committee. It is an issue which does not concern us, because it has to do with the European Union and Iceland. We believe, of course, that it is very hypocritical to some of the articles, such as Article 3, which speaks of selling pollutants, which should either apply to all the same or should not apply to them. What is of particular importance is the second ratification of an agreement, namely the ratification of the memorandum of understanding on tourism cooperation between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic and the Saudi Committee of Tourism and Antiquities of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. This penalty relates to a memorandum of understanding between the Greek Ministry of Tourism and the Saudi Committee of Tourism and Antiquities of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. It has the basic and usual provisions that we see in such sanctions - so far someone could say 'all good' - that is, facilities for cooperation between tourist agencies, exchanges of know-how and information on tourism, visits by experts and, of course, encouraging and facilitating tourist investment. Of all this, we stand in Article 3 which mentions the promotion of historical and cultural heritage with recognition of the role played by each culture in the development of world culture. And here of course we laugh! For us the thought lies in what Greek culture can have - from Greek culture everything came! - with the Saudi Wahabiists, who almost officially in the Saudi state preach hatred, intolerance, are donors to all Islamics around the earth. They are those who literally level up antiquities and monuments in areas they occupy, as they took place in Syria, as they did in Iraq, as they do elsewhere. We see what mania they dissolve everything that has to do with antiquities. With those who collaborate militaryly with the Turks, the suburban enemy of Hellenism, and with the Turks attack the legal status of Assad in Syria and have created whatever problems they have created, with those who have very much supported and supported with their investments the pseudo-state which exists in the occupied northern part of Cyprus, do we want to sign a memorandum of tourist cooperation? So, what cooperation can we talk about? It is absolutely hypocritical, typical, and perhaps the agreement in question has come from the European Union and we are calling for it to be voted for. We are talking about Saudi Arabia, a country which does not show any sensitivity to human rights, and much more to women. Every day we see the various videos from Saudi Arabia showing how they behave to them, a way which is much worse than animal behavior or anything else. In Saudi Arabia, women are obliged to wear not just a bourga, but to be covered from the top to the nails and to see nothing at all. With this country, will we sign a memorandum of cooperation, with that country which has proved to cofinance the various Soros non-governmental organisations, in order to dismantle the nations and homelands, particularly in Europe and the Balkans, where they have targeted over the past twenty years? We have another point of view. We believe that all these agreements in practice do not serve anything at all and do not match the values and culture of our country. For these reasons, and for many others too, we could abuse all year round - we are voting against this sanction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u13	So do we. Mr Tsironis, Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I think we don't have to get far away from such a deal with Iceland. Iceland is a country from which we can draw many fertile examples of how it works, and I really think it should be a great pleasure to see that it decides to join the high ambition area in which the European Union is located. For the citizens who are listening to today's sitting, I would like to remind you of a few things that may have been undermined today. It is now commonplace that human greenhouse gas emission activity, in particular fossil carbon emissions, creates scary changes in the climate, changes that the earth is impossible to absorb. If we continue to do so - to speak financially - the assessment of the Bank of Greece and the study of the Athens Academy for the impact of climate change on our country by 2100 is that this will be EUR 700 billion. And for those who don't understand the number, we understand that we're talking about about a double sum of today's deceased debt. The country's current government debt is half this number. Therefore, if we continue at this rate, Greece will be asked to pay apart from the debt that is unable to pay - and we all know it - twice that amount. Some may not understand where this calculation comes from. I'll report a few very soon. I'll report the erosion of our shores. Let us forget our known sands if we continue at this rate. I will mention diseases of plants and animals that were unknown to our country and are currently affecting our country. I shall mention the desertification, and I shall mention the fires that are not controlled. This year, we had the unpleasant phenomenon, which we had and in 2007, not to erase the fires, to drop the water, and not to erase the tree, because it was dry, because we had an arid year. If this is extended, I think we can imagine what will happen in a country that is very based on its nature and agricultural production. To say another number, to be understood. Refugees from climate change, as calculated by the UN, are estimated at 100 million. Consider what is happening today from the five to six million Syrians and what is happening in Europe today politically from these movements. Make the account in your mind all and everyone listening to today’s talk, what a hundred million people can no longer stay in their homes and move. Most will move from Central America to North America and from the African and Asian countries obviously to Europe. So, consider what this means in demographic terms for our country, a country that is right in this historic crossroads - which we have heard so much fearfully of others talking about cultures before. So, here we are not talking about a closely political issue. And here I really wonder. I have heard the KIC's dear friend tell us that it is all about capitalism, and I will not disagree, because at the moment we live in capitalism, so what is happening around us, and good and bad, is due to this capitalism. So I am one of those who envision another economy outside capitalism, outside the profit society. However, she answered her own misgivings and explained that, today, in conditions of capitalism, we must fight for the partition, for nature, for water, for all goods. And the question I ask is very simple: Is it wrong to fight for these irreversible consequences? Is the acceleration of investment in renewable energy bad for the climate? Don't make those investments? Because I would remind you that if there were no such trade in pollutants, which my colleague so despairfully mentioned, today we would not have penetrated wind turbines, we would not have infiltrated the photovoltaics. We would continue to burn cheap lignite and cheap oil. Thanks, precisely to this Kyoto Protocol, which was really inadequate and I will agree with you, which has not been ratified by all the countries - there is insufficient marketing, all these arguments are good - but thanks to this we are sitting here today and we have much more radical agreements ahead of us. Or, then, we will do something now or when and since - and respect your vision - your vision is implemented, I am very afraid of it in a desert. So I invite you to reconsider. [[At this point the closing bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing again and again.]] I'll only go in a second. A speaker referred to the detestable way in which some states are currently treating us in our country and identified this detestable behaviour - with poor behaviour in women, with authoritarianism and other phenomena - with an entire culture. And he said that we should not as a nation have anything to do with this culture. This behavior, which is very frequent, unfortunately, is to identify a culture and a nation with a detestable attitude, has been done before. Let me remind you that our religion, the religion of love, has taken out the Inquisition. So, should we identify the Sacred Examination with our religion? Should we identify the German nation with Hitler's crimes? Well, I say that when bad conduct is identified with nations, this is called racism and racism in this House, we should not be fond of him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and all of the bill of the Ministry of Environment and Energy is hereby concluded: 'Following the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, on Iceland's participation in the joint response to the commitments undertaken by the European Union, its Member States and Iceland in the second commitment period, in accordance with Doha's amendment to the Kyoto Protocol, ratified by the n. Regulation (EC) No 4335/2015 (A148), the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change ratified by No. 4345/2015 (A148). Regulation (EC) No 3017/2002 (A'117).’; Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u16	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u17	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u18	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u19	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u20	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u21	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u22	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u23	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, on Iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the obligations undertaken by the European Union, its Member States and Iceland in the second commitment period, in accordance with Doha's amendment to the Kyoto Protocol, ratified by v. Regulation (EC) No 4335/2015 (A148), the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change ratified by No. 4345/2015 (A148). 3017/2002 (A'117)’ has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle, articles and the whole, which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House, before we proceed to the Federation of the Second Convention, that the Standing Committee on Social Affairs submits its report to the draft Law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC (No. L 127/1 of 29.4.2014), as amended by Commission Delegated Directive 2014/109/EU of 10 October 2014 amending Annex II to Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council by establishing a library of iconographic warnings to be used for tobacco products and other relevant provisions.’; We are continuing to work on legislation. Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in Tourism between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic and the Saudi Committee of Tourism and Antiquities of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, those who object to the ratification of this agreement. Does a colleague want to take the floor? Obviously, Mrs Manolakou, if I am not wrong, because Mr Panayotarus also covered the second agreement. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, I have asked you to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u26	I'm sorry, Mrs. Manolakou. Mr Brutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u27	I would like to ask the Minister again if he intends to table an amendment. We, as we know, agreed in committee. Therefore, what remains is to see whether there is a government's intention to table an amendment to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u28	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u29	Oh, no. So there is no anxiety. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u30	Mr Tsironis left, but he answered why the pollutants have not now been reduced under so many international conditions over these decades, he did not give us any answers. So the agreements do not work because other interests serve. We must now come to this agreement. I would like to say at the outset that the development of tourism has not experienced a crisis. However, it does not reflect what is really happening behind the window. The intensity of the exploitation of workers, the worst terms of work and the greater exclusion of populace layers from holidays and recreation is considered. At the same time, investment in tourism is financed by international and domestic financial institutions with funds arising from the bleeding of the peoples of Europe and the whole world. The above included concessions of public land, gypsies, ports, marinas, airports, forests in large business groups, to be exploited to open new profit fields. I mention them because one of the main markets, which is expanding and seeking to win the major groups in the tourism industry, is also from the Arab peninsula countries. The current of tourist movement from Arab states is already increased compared to 2015. There are transnational monopolies of Saudi interests with significant investment in Greece, such as the Olympian-based group in Athens. It has acquired 25% of the shares in Costa Navarino of TEMPUS and participated in its share capital "AEGEAN AIRLINES". The Olayan group has investments in ‘CHIPITA’, in telecommunications, in the RES, participated in ‘COCA-COLA 3E’ and in properties and with the group of Constantakopoulos submitted an offer for the Asteras Vuliagmenos. It is considered the most powerful Saudi business group and has investments all over the planet. The "TEMPES" in a Turkish consortium have submitted a bid to buy Hilton Athens and they will probably acquire it. At the same time Saudi Arabia is exploited as an opportunity to invest capital in medical tourism and supply from Greece with know-how, medical and other specialities. This memorandum of cooperation essentially gives full state support to monopolistic groups to promote their investment projects. That is why it contains nothing to guarantee work with full rights and collective agreements for workers. After all, there is no labour rights in Saudi Arabia. There's over-exploitation of tens of thousands of foreign workers. There are unpaid workers in the otters of construction. So in the articles it is obvious who are served. The road opens for the exploitation of cheap flexible labour without rights, through training programs, while a photographic provision for the Olayan and Konstantakopoulos groups is Article 7. This convention was the product of agreements signed by the former Government of New Democracy - PASOK with the Saudi State, and that is why they are voting for it. This is essentially the implementation of basic designs of the monopoly capital, which invest in tourism in cooperation with the local capital and the entire support of the Greek state to open up markets and capital from the Arab Gulf and thus increase their profitability. The SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence implements these plans literally confirming that the state has continued. A key axis of its policy is the interests of the monopoly capital, reflected in such transnational agreements. Therefore, the "wonder" of tourism is for a few and large, since the development of the tourist industry wins a handful of business groups, while for thousands of workers in large hotel establishments it is running, endless work, pay, and in the long run unemployment. Athens Ledra's employees first saw what 'high performance' means in tourism, increase in arrivals and profits. This shows the evidence published. More work, that is, but less wages for workers, since more and more places do not apply the sectoral collective agreement. Unpaid work goes cloud, less staff, generalization of apprenticeship. Tourism and development for a few, then. Winnings for monopolistic businesses, with hotels, agencies, planes, cruise ships. Misery and uncertain life for the workers of the industry. This logic and politics also serves the specific moratorium that the Communist Party of Greece is voting against.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u31	Thank you. Mr. Shahinides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have previously heard the Minister, Mr Tsironi, referring to racism. In fact, he didn't even have the courage to say a name. He said: 'Some speaker'. Our own speaker from Golden Dawn spoke of the violence that is being persecuted by the State of Saudi Arabia. Ultimately, anti-racism in this Chamber is very selective. In other words, Mr. Chironis does not consider racist that the people who come from this country are destroying ancient monuments. That is right, in the opinion of his. However, because Mr Tsironis does not have the courage to refer to names, unlike us from the Golden Dawn, we shall refer to them. A few days ago, and in particular on Thursday, 1st of the month, there was a discussion on the subject of ELSTAT and the former Prosecutor of Ice Arrow Mrs. Xenia Dimitrios had ordered a preliminary examination, making a proposal to annul the discharge of the President of ELSTAT Andreas Georgiou in respect of the part of the felony. In addition to the improper intervention of the Commission, we also have the government's intrinsic intervention in the work of justice. So he was assigned to the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Juliarakis, an ingrained role, I would say, to take over, as I said before, to intervene in the work of justice in terms of SYRIZA - ANEL's well-known case. In fact, his agony, during his statement, was so obvious that, at the time he read the statement, he had his finger on the text, so that he wouldn't make any mistakes. The things that they wrote to him, he had to tell exactly the way he should. However, it was a text in which he faithfully executed the orders of the Dobrovski and Moscovisi tabloids, which, unfortunately, have been implemented. In his move he wanted to erase a national crime. He wanted to bury a scandal, perhaps the biggest scandal in modern Greek history. In his move he protects all political stakeholders of the then PASOK government. In fact, I will read a passage from his statement: "The Greek Government has full confidence in ELSTAT's and Eurostat's data." Well, no. The Golden Dawn has absolutely no confidence in what you say and do. I'm going to explain this to you on a point. Within this Chamber of three hundred Members, the sixty-fifths have a degree in law and have not completely opened any no nosy for this statement of the Minister. The most popular people in the New Democracy do not naturally touch their former partners. Where do you know, maybe she needs them in another election co-operation? One advice to their president: Do not make the same gave as Samara's predecessor and say he will not cooperate with PASOK. Here you collaborated with the NGO, gentlemen of the New Democracy! As far as the Communist Party is concerned. We hear many times about capitalism and how much they want to fight him. We have brought you, Mrs Manolakou, to the committees, the capitalists, the big-timers and the big-timers, and you have not asked them any questions at all! Of course, the river is looking for who will go where, which party will absorb them. Mr. Leventis conducts politics in the same way as he once used to sing. I left PASOK last. We did not expect you to raise this issue, of course, because it concerns you directly and indirectly, regardless of which Mr Papandreou no longer belongs to PASOK, but he was your President and Prime Minister at the controversial time of the scandal. Did you, PASOK gentlemen, negotiate your immunity for post-election cooperation? Why don't you do a bidding contest, as the Cooperatives did, for the licensing of the channels? Since I referred to the licensing of the channels, I would like to say that it makes us a great impression: today's governance should first show the good example. It should have been in a country where four public channels operate, and four private licences are granted - we would have absolutely no interest in it if no licence were given, because, as we have repeatedly said, the third political force is totally excluded from promotion on any channel, whether state or private - the government should show its good face by starting cuts from the four state channels. It is not possible in a country where four licenses are granted to private channels, to operate four state channels! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. They therefore considered it appropriate to have this competition. There are, however, serious issues here, such as how they allowed some of the contestants to participate in the competition, and they already owe millions of maritime loans with the same subject of work. How is it ensured that they recover financially and will have a positive mark on their revenues, which will cover their outstanding debts and, at the same time, meet their current financial needs? Secondly, having had the millions, why did these gentlemen not have to pay off their loans immediately? Thirdly, why didn't you ask for the immediate payment of the prices from the contest and you let them pay them back in six instalments? Fourthly - and more importantly - all those who proclaimed a piece of pie from the television scene are regarded in one way or another as'successful entrepreneurs'. But how is it - and you tell me here in this Chamber - that all these clever businessmen have enough money to claim a television licence, when those who acted in the media proved themselves damaged and not profited? And if we look at the tenders that have been made and the amounts to which the licences have finally been closed, the following conclusion is made:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u33	Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u34	I shall conclude, Mr President. These brilliant operators otherwise wanted to invest money, with which they could buy for a longer period and with guaranteed profits for TRAINOSE, regional airports, even some of the ports. This, ladies and gentlemen, shows that there is a conflict in the media. The only ones who have the power and will to eliminate it are us, the Golden Dawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Carras, it's not predictable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u37	I understand that, Mr President, but I would like to note something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u38	He's a parliamentary representative. Of course it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u39	Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u40	I would like to point out that the reference made by my colleague in the Golden Dawn was not appropriate, for the reason that no issue had been raised. He referred to the president of our party and called him a "singer". What for? At least to explain it to us, to answer it to him. In other words, you understand that this inappropriateness should be noted and supported, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, may I have the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Kasapidis, by surplus, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. As our representative has said, we have voted in favour of both agreements in committee and in plenary. I would simply like to take the opportunity of the Minister's presence - the Minister left, of course - and I would like to stress, by linking both agreements currently ratified by the House, some developments that have been running in the European Union which have been of direct interest to our country, but for several years we have been seeing them a little far away. What do I mean? As has been said, we all know that climate change due to greenhouse gas emissions is not before the gates, it is within the walls. This year we are living the hottest year of all times, as recorded in the meteorological data recorded by NASA and the effects are visible this year in our country with considerable damage to agriculture, but also to other sectors. As experts say, with the gradual increase in temperature and the gradual increase in sea levels, the damage to be caused goes beyond what the Minister said about the damage to our country. Worldwide, these losses amount to about 40 trillion dollars. However, it is not so difficult to block this destructive course of the planet, based of course on scientific knowledge, and that is what I would like to present, Mr President. Participating in 2014, as the only representative of our country, at a conference held in Lyon, France, which was held by the European Energy Technology Research Committee, in which our country has been involved since 2004 with the presence of the then Minister, Mr Sufah, but with the change of the Minister - since then - the presence of our country in this committee, which financed the research carried out in the first decade of 2000 on the new technologies of renewable sources, with particular attention being paid to the technologies of hydrogen and fuel cells. In 2014 they made the account and valuation of all the member countries and our country had no calculation, because the projects that were then started were not completed. What were the projects, which I would like to mention before the Minister, who are of interest to her directly? It was the project "Ai Stratis, the green island". The country had undertaken to implement a model energy rehabilitation from fossil fuels of an island, Ai Stratis, and then expanded to other islands and other areas of our country. This isn't over yet. It was also undertaken by the country to incorporate hydrogen technology, setting up a hydrogen reactor in the CAP, which used water-induced hydrogen. What was the result? The two projects are incomplete and the Europeans are still waiting for our proposals for the second period, which is to finance these results. What can we do now, Minister, why is this something that concerns you? This model, this project on the energy rehabilitation of our islands, may not have been completed, but technologies exist. There are batteries recharged from renewable sources, which in our country are abundant, and all vehicles used in the tourism industry can incorporate this technology with domestic investors. We don't have to bring out funds. The Greek businessmen themselves, collective schemes, cooperatives - so as not to give an initiative, as Mrs Manolakos says, only in the interests - but also in the local communities to set up urban companies and integrate this technology, so that in the second period we can be financed by this committee with additional resources from those which the European Union has planned for our country, beyond the funds of the NRP.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Kasapidis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u46	I shall conclude, Mr President. The second technology, Mr President, is also concerned with hydrogen technology. The country can claim. They are waiting for the step by us, first of all, in Germany and France, where they have incorporated hydrogen technology - I am ending with it - into traffic within cities. Hamburg, Mr President, today we are talking about has eighty two buses burning water, not just hydrogen. They burn with water, electrolysis of hydrogen in cars, hydrogen as fuel is then exploited and burning water. If we enter this technology by co-production of these equipment in our home country, you understand what the advantage is, because we will have a passport for tourism, for agriculture, for industry and gradually dismantle the country from fossil fuels, mainly from imported fuels. With the clean technologies of lignite - which is another project launched by our country and which goes a little better - we can reduce the emissions of gaseous pollutants and be pioneers while we are in the European Union. Thank you, Mr President, for allowing me to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u47	Mrs. Kundura has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, I must answer Mr Karras to explain what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u49	Please don't recycle it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u50	I just feel like I have to say a couple of words.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u51	Let it go. Mrs. Kundura has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Kasapidis for his proposals, which are really of great interest, because environmental protection is the protection of tourism. We know that, because of the first - if you want - the tourists' complaint is when the environment is not what it should be. Thank you very much. Honestly, I will be delighted - and with Mr Tsironi, because we have excellent cooperation - to see these proposals in writing. There are surely problems and diseases and situations that have not been completed in the past. We can see it. It's my pleasure. I would like to table a small legislative improvement concerning the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in Tourism of the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic and the Saudi Committee on Tourism and Antiquities. In the title and in the first article of the bill, after the word ‘Archits’, the words ‘the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia’ are added. Please, I'm tabling it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u53	This Memorandum establishes the contractual framework for strengthening bilateral cooperation in the tourism sector, which includes joint actions aimed at increasing tourism traffic. Within this new national tourism policy was the opening up of new markets. The Middle East is a very good market. They have extremely big incomes. The opening took place last year. From the Gulf we have about 55% increase in 2016. We are very pleased. With this memorandum of cooperation, we will not only strengthen the tourist movement, but, as has been rightly said by colleagues, we have an exchange of know-how, documentation of the research and promotion material in the tourism sector, exchange of expert visits to organise workshops and special events on specific forms of tourism, which we are also developing very strongly, because it is a product which can provide us with a very great deal of tourist growth, examination of all possible forms of cooperation and vocational training for students in tourism studies, encouragement of courses of tourist investment, which is a key objective and we will also set up a committee to implement the planned common actions. So, with this sanction, we are seeking to tighten the relationships with tourism with the greatest benefits for both countries and, of course, we are looking forward to a more significant increase in tourist flows to our country from this dynamic market over the next few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a statement to this House. The Ministers for the Environment and Energy, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, Transparency and Human Rights as well as the Deputy Ministers of Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, Economic and Environment and Energy have today tabled a draft law: “Forest Cooperatives and other provisions”. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Tourism is hereby completed. Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u55	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u56	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u57	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u58	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u59	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u60	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u61	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u62	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: ‘Structuring the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in Tourism between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic and the Saudi Committee of Tourism and Antiquities of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle, articles and the whole, and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u63	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u64	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 2 June 2016, Monday 13 June 2016, Tuesday 14 June 2016, Wednesday 15 June 2016, Friday 17 June 2016, Wednesday 22 June 2016, Thursday 23 June 2016, Friday 24 June 2016, Monday 27 June 2016, Tuesday 28 June 2016 (morning), Tuesday 28 June 2016 (in the evening) and ask the House if it validates them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u65	The minutes of Thursday 2 June 2016, Monday 13 June 2016, Tuesday 14 June 2016, Wednesday 15 June 2016, Friday 17 June 2016, Wednesday 22 June 2016, Thursday 23 June 2016, Friday 24 June 2016, Monday 27 June 2016, Tuesday 28 June 2016 (morning), Tuesday 28 June 2016 (at afternoon). Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-06-S1-commons.u66	(b) legislative work, only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC (No. L 127/1 of 29.4.2014), as amended by Commission Delegated Directive 2014/109/EU of 10 October 2014 amending Annex II to Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council by establishing a library of iconographic warnings to be used for tobacco products and other relevant provisions, in accordance with the agenda.
