ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Before we start, I'd like to read what won't be discussed, so we can get time. They will not, therefore, be discussed as a result of an impediment to the relevant ministers and will be redefined for discussion, the following questions will be asked: The first question under number 1017/21-6-2016 of the First Cycle of the MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition.Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the deletion of students from the OAED's registers, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister, Ranias Antonopoulou, due to unsuccessful obligations. The third, with number 1026/21-6-2016, timely question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Vasilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the problems of primary production of Crete from the drought and high temperatures, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister, Mr.Bolaris, who is outside Athens. The second question under number 1014-17-2016 is the second question of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health, on the collapse of public health, will not be discussed because of the impediment of the Minister, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, because of the unsettled obligations. The first question under number 1022/21-6-2016 of the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukokorous, with the Minister of National Defence, on the creation of HOT - SPOT in Portaria, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister, Vitsa, due to his obligations. The fourth under number 957-7-6-2016 topical question by MP Chios of the New Republic of Panagiotis (Noti) Mitarakis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the protection of feta in European Union trade agreements, will not be discussed due to an impediment by Minister Stathakis, because of a meeting with the institutions. The fifth question under number 925/30-5-2016 of the new Republic MP, Eleftherios Aygeakis, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the deterioration of the manufacturing sector in our country, is not discussed because of the impediment of Minister Stathakis, because of his meeting with the institutions. The sixth question, under number 916/27-5-2016, of the second question of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the "management of Greek citizens by a well-known para-stated anti-semitists' website", is not discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister Mr. Toska because of unsuccessful obligations. The seventh question, number 907/25-5-2016, topical question of the second question of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the progress of the projects to make use of the former airport of Greek, is not discussed due to the impediment of Minister Tsakalotou on account of a workload. The second, under number 1021/21-6-2016, a top-circuit question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the New Democracy, Konstantinos Karagunis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the creation of a hot spot in Palairo, the Municipality of Aktolo-Vonitsa, is not discussed due to an impediment by Deputy Minister Mousala, due to his absence in Canada. The fourth under number 1024/21-6-2016 first cycle of MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the safeguarding of the working and insurance rights of employees of the hotel “Athens Ledra”, is not discussed because of the impediment of Minister Katrugalos, due to his absence abroad. The third, with number 1025/21-6-2016, is a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Ministers for Economy, Development and Tourism, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about dealing with the problems of workers in fertiliser plants in Kavala. Parliamentarian Georgios Koumoutsakos is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 28 June to 29 June 2016 as he will participate in the European People's Party Summit in Brussels. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We are now entering questions for debate. The first question will be discussed under number 5166/28-4-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on measures to relieve the affected in the Municipality of Ierapetra from the destructive fire and the proclamation of the region as a fireman. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, on 21 April this catastrophic fire broke out. At least one hundred and fifty producers were affected with hundreds of acres of greenhouses, thousands of trees - about two and a half thousand - mainly olive trees. And of course, we were damaged in shared irrigation, water supply networks, but also in mechanical equipment, facilities. More generally, it was a disaster, which really left behind the skull site. It should be said that the whole of the local community was immediately concerned with the municipality and the region. The state machine also showed up. The region and the Secretary of PSEA, ELGA, visited. However, there is still nothing concrete about the way in which plant and animal production, plant and animal production are compensated, nor about plant and animal capital, nor about the facilities and bee-keeping. Because, even in beekeeping, we have had enormous damage. And what I see from the answers - those of the co-legislative ministries - are that they are actually raising their hands up, identifying the economic and the way in which financial aid could be made available, combining it with a programme of RCLAs, which is insulting on various grounds. One of the excuses is not to declare the area still as a firefighter. And, of course, there are other bureaucratic issues that I will be able to develop. The question is: because in the Ministry of Finance they probably let it be understood that it is - let us say it - the competence or the possibility of financial assistance if you have been informed by the relevant ministries if you have any requests and if you can go ahead with something to compensate for these people who have been affected and of course the municipality of the region to restore the damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u4	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Pinheiro, with your question you raise a problem in the region after the great catastrophe. You have tabled your question in good time since April 28th. Unfortunately, the question arrived at my office after 23 May, which was the date on which we should have provided the answer to you as the Ministry of Finance. That is how the timely question procedure was followed. I received it on 27 of the month and on 30 of the month I delivered it because it has signatures from other ministers. I say that for reasons of order, to explain why we are discussing it here. Because you have asked her this question to many ministers and you have done very well because it is the responsibility of many ministers. As far as the point you have raised is concerned, the procedure is open. I will submit a series of documents - in order to have a better picture and to make time savings - from the administration of indirect taxation of the Ministry of Finance, from the financial policy department of the Ministry of Finance, from the management of the restoration of the impact of natural disasters on the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, from ELGA and finally from the Region of Crete, which has already declared itself by a decision of the Ministry of Finance - there has been a direct response - to the area in a state of emergency of civil protection. All these documents I'll submit to you so you'll be briefed. Some of them will also be taken through the parliamentary procedure of the written question. You are quite right to ask questions in a series of ministries. I shall submit the documents that have been brought to me by the other ministries and shall submit our views as the Ministry of Finance. As far as the powers of the Ministry of Finance are concerned, we have competence in cases of earthquakes, floods or other natural disasters which cause widespread disasters, to proceed to a number of arrangements on issues, but, tax, that is, to suspend the collection of late payments, to extend time limits for the payment of certified debts to the State, to extend time limits for tax declarations and to these things we are going on. It is necessary for the Ministry of Finance to proceed with the above measures, to declare the area that has suffered the damage in an emergency, which has already been done since 20-5-2016 by decision of the Regional Governor. In order to do all the rest of this, however, a joint ministerial decision must be made. In order to come out of the joint ministerial decision, it is necessary to demarcate the affected areas, which are responsible for the rehabilitation of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, and to record the damage to these enterprises, which is the responsibility of the relevant region. So to do something, they must have been ahead of us - and we are pressing in this direction - these actions from the other ministries. The rest I'll tell you in my denture, just to tell you exactly what the other ministries have done, so we won't waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u6	Thank you. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u7	Mr Minister, in order not to be paved, to demarcate the debate. Most can be done only after the area has been declared in an emergency and as a firefighter. This is done by a joint ministerial decision, which has not yet been done. It has been requested by the region, which is not responsible for declaring it, as you have rightly said, but has not been completed and it is something that needs to be done. The Dutch have made a fundraiser and sent checks for the Ierapetra firemen - I will submit to you papers and documents, I will send them to you to see - and that is good interest because they are partners and visitors in the region. Let me say that it was the Dutch who was 50 years before he started producing glasshouses and has a special relationship with the region. Second, a concert in Ierapetra for the firemen and radiomarathon. At the same time, the Ministries show an inactivity, an inactivity. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegoroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The joint ministerial decision has to be made. If this joint ministerial decision is not adopted, you have rightly said so - by the other ministries - such as the facilities, for example, for loans so that there can be a five-year plan, as the affected entrepreneurs and farmers in the region demand for obligations in the public, tax matters and in the insurance funds - by means of a joint ministerial decision, but the declaration is needed - to facilitate the modernisation of the facilities and the restoration of losses in and from programmes that the Ministry of Rural Development or the NSRF has. All of this can set up a special programme to restore the area and every affected area, but it needs coordination that I see no. Take the initiative, you're a co-sponsored ministry. Mr Spirtzis, of course, is Mr Spirtzis, and it is our pleasure that he is here to tell us a word, because we have a next question, so that this declaration can finally be made. It's been two and a half months! Look, do you know what it says? He says: "I, with ELGA, see that there have been no CSCE statements, that there should have been a dozen days ago" and it seems that he wants to'supply it'. The damages are real, registered and large, unfortunately. I wish there were no such phenomena. We have seen the past days and now that we are discussing other areas of our country because of the weather phenomena. There needs to be coordination so that there is a direct response to and integration into a specific programme of each region affected by such a disaster, I would also say standardised. We don't have to find the wheel every time. Declaration of the region, tax measures to facilitate businesses, producers, people affected and the State programme to restore the damage. That, I think, needs to be done. And because I know your effectiveness, Mr Alexiadis, take an initiative from the Ministry of Finance, which you also have the bag, in order to achieve results in this case. It is also the issue of the roadmap of the ELGA valuers, which I have tabled four times. The Ministry of Rural Development has not taken a clear position. No ELGA estimates are made because of this problem, and I think that is why you should also be interested, see the amendment that we have in the Ministry of Economy's bill, which is being discussed in Parliament this week, because you are also in charge of the Ministry of Rural Development, in order to resolve this issue of the movement of ELGA valuers. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u8	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Madam President. I will agree with you, Mr President, on the importance of solidarity at the level of Europe and at the level of society and that this certainly shows another function and another direction that we need to have at Europe level, but I will not agree with you in the wording of your criticism of inactivity and inaction. We moved too fast. On 21 April the fire took place and the actions started immediately. As you will see from the document submitted by the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, the management of disaster impact recovery is at the stage of drawing up a plan demarcating the affected areas and setting out credit measures to restore the damage to the affected buildings. The Joint Ministerial Decision will be promoted after the necessary checks by the relevant departments. That's where it's going to start. So there's no delay there, the procedure goes ahead. The ELGA has completed its assessment work on crop damage, tree crops, mainly oilseeds, fixed capital, facilities, two hundred greenhouses, equipment and other, stored products, livestock, beeswax. The necessary markings have been made by the ELGA, and after the specific procedure provided for by the law, which we cannot breach, compensation will be paid, after the programme and expenditure have been approved by the Ministry of Finance and, in any case, after the confirmation of recovery and compensation for damages have been confirmed. It's a process that's not about the Treasury. We are in charge of this procedure. It is about another ministry, but of course we will also be helping where we can and pressure. The Ministry of Finance has responded to such similar natural disasters. Recently, in November 2015 and June 2016, we adopted such decisions for Skopelos, Hydra, Haidari, Acharnes, Andravidis, Cyclones, West Achaia, Phylis, Agios Anargyros, Camero, for Municipality of Lefkada, Meganisi, Kefalonia, Ithaca and a series of other areas. We are therefore trying, within the framework of the financial statements, within the framework of the law - because we must follow these procedures - to respond to the problems of society and the citizens and especially the businesses in this sector, which are the backbone of productive activity, particularly in such areas. As far as what you said is concerned, we are already trying at the Ministry of Finance and as soon as we are ready, we will give it as a proposal to the other Ministries, there will be a protocol, a plan to automatically classify the region on a scale, for example from 1 to 10, where in 10 it will be the most serious natural disaster, and in 1 will be the simplest and most simplest, depending on the level of destruction and the region being activated at the level of taxation all these incentives, exemptions, extensions, etc. This, we believe, will help us in cooperation with all the ministries to deal directly and effectively with such disasters. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u10	Thank you. We move to the fifth under number 1013/17-2016.A topical question of the first cycle of the Greek Open University MP, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the reduction of doses in the tuition fees for students of the Greek Open University for the 2016-2017 academic year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u11	Madam President, I would like to ask you to give me the floor for a minute to inform Mr Kegeroglu about the previous question. Because the Ministry of Infrastructure is also involved in the previous question, which was made to the Ministry of Finance, I would like to make a brief briefing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u12	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u13	Mr Kegeroglu, there is a very big problem in demarcation times. And it's not a matter of coordination, it's a point of order. Obviously, because in the past there have been many distortions both in earthquake regions and other natural disasters, such as fire and flooding, there has been a very heavy process to integrate precisely the areas affected. This has led us in recent years to the average demarcation of a region over six months and with a very great effort from both the municipalities and the regions and the relevant bodies. It is sufficient to say that five ministries, some eight departments, are involved to demarcate a region. What we have done so far is that we are preparing to change the system, to be able to use satellite photographs and to have the ability of the country to use the systems it can use, to use to automatically demarcate the area and not to have this whole delay. And we need the self-consciousness that goes on from either ELGA, either from the Ministry of Infrastructure, from the Ministry of Industry or from any Ministry to come and assist and not to have the delay we have today. I've already warned about this. If they let me know by the end of the day we'll be here or tomorrow morning, I'll personally let you know where it is. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Minister. The fifth will be discussed under number 1013/17-2016, a top-level question for the first cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the reduction of doses in the students' tuition fees of the Greek Open University for the academic year 2016-2017. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Sia Anagnostopoulou. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, with his announcement on 14-6-2016, the Hellenic Open University took the decision not to apply for the new academic year 2016-2017 the payment framework applicable in the previous year, which facilitated students by allowing them to pre-pay their tuition fees in monthly instalments up to 31-12-2015. This abolition of doses a few days before the statement of the new thematic sections undeniably leads to the interruption of the majority of students, as their student potential consists mainly of family workers with children and unemployed young people, who struggle in the hope of a future professional rehabilitation. The invoicing on the part of the PSC of the "first-time charge" due to the facilitation of the students in the repayment of their financial obligations in the previous year, has no basis as we all know that this is a profitable educational institution, which, apart from student grants, receives funding from the state as well and has a respectable reserve and has few operational and fixed expenses. At a time when the country is plagued by the protracted economic crisis, the PSC should show understanding and assist students in their struggle for a better life through Lifelong Learning. Minister, what do you intend to do in order to restore injustice and ensure the right of U.S. student to continue their studies uninterruptedly? In conclusion, I would like to say that I am aware of the position taken by the Management Committee of the PSC on 22 June. But I would be happy to see your position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u16	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague, let us take things a little from the outset: I have repeated many times from this point of view that the state should provide equal opportunities and equal opportunities for all for education and all levels of education. This is the position of our government. It is indicative that we have been dealing recently with the subject of postgraduate and tuition in them in public universities. I would like to see that when this debate comes to Parliament and the position of your party. I would like to say that the Hellenic Open University is an independent and self-government institution, which is indeed under the supervision of the Ministry of Education. According to its founding law, 1997, students and students are charged with obtaining the necessary material -information, education, etc. - expenditure corresponding to these materials. The level of participation is defined by the university itself and approved by the Ministry of Education. That was his function. The financial grant that the Open University has from the state budget is at EUR 700,000 for its operating costs. From there on, the institution itself needs EUR 25,000,000 per year. As far as tuition is concerned, because the question you have asked unfortunately contains some inaccuracies - I would say several inaccuracies - I would like to inform you why I am saying 'inaccurate'. The fact is that the payment of the financial contribution to the thematic sections of the ESDP students and students was made in three instalments in recent years. Because of the capital controls last year, the outgoing administration had uploaded these doses from three to five. Thus, the instalments paid by students at the end of December 2015 were completed. The current Governor was granted an extension for two further instalments, until 8 May 2016. This Decision was valid for the academic year 2015-2016. It should be noted, of course, that this delay in the payment of tuition fees imposed on the institution and made it possible - if you want - to have a deficit of around EUR 400,000, which has not enabled the institution of grants to be strengthened. Now, however, we come to the critical of your question: By its decision of 13 June 2016, the Management Committee decided for the first time, in response to the difficult situation of students, to increase the doses to seven with the final repayment date on 31 December 2016. It is noted that this decision does not only apply to the current academic year, but henceforth forever, that is, from now on, unless another management committee changes it. Well, that's the point. What concerns me is that this decision of the management has been announced on the EAW website, on the social media of the institution, while it has been communicated by e-mail to forty thousand students and students of the Open University. There have also been communications from the president of the PSC at a press conference on local media and national television networks. I would also like to say something that is not noted: Unlike what you say, not only did the foundation increase the doses to seven, but it reduced the tuition fees by EUR 50 per theme by both the Undergraduate and the Postgraduate curriculum programmes, while increasing the number of grants awarded. Finally, students are facilitated to pay their tuition fees through bank administrations. In other words, it has done so since June - and earlier on on many other issues - the impossible, strong and increasing doses - and reducing tuition fees by 50 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u19	I am pleased, Minister, that you said that facilitating student payments will be essentially not only for this year, but for subsequent years, that it will be permanent. This method of payment will, in essence, be introduced. However, I could not be satisfied with your position as regards the fact that this decision was taken on 13 June. I would like to remain on this, saying that the communication from the Management Committee on 22 June, when it talks about updating the relevant decision, No 303/13-6-2016, was about facilitating students to pay financial contributions. Refers essentially to the agenda 303/13-6-2016 falsely. I'll testify for the Minutes. I will also table the Minutes on the agenda 303/13-6-2016. This has not been discussed. And I'm going to testify for it to make it easier. I will also table the Minutes on the agenda 304 on 17/6/2016, where this has not been discussed again. I will present for the minutes a communication from the Greek Pan-Hellenic Students and graduates on 14-6-2016, where, in essence, the club expresses its displeasure and intense concern about why the issue of the payment of financial instalments has not been resolved. I will also present for the minutes the club's announcement on 17-6-2016, where it appears that the doses cannot be changed and go until December 2016. Minister, the point is to tell the Greek people and Greek citizens the truth because they are going through too badly. If we cannot be honest with the Greek people, then our position is in a difficult situation. I won't tell you what your work is. You understand this work better than I do. In this context, I would like, please, to hear two proposals. It is not at the moment of course, but it would be nice to hear them from our side and from there you will judge whether and how much you should go on with these proposals. It says in the Committee's communication that the costs of the PSC include rooms leased for the group meetings. Our proposal is to make an agreement with the administrations of the conventional universities for less costs, essentially, at these group consultative meetings. As regards the issue you said about the discount that the committee has made, the discount - if I am not mistaken - speaks of 10% per thematic section. 10% is up to 500 euros. It would be nice because people take both two and three thematic sections, this discount being escalating upwards, so that a man does not stay only at 10% of the discount of the thematic unit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u20	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u21	Because it is easy to start the intercategories of the "Lear lying" type - and this is the easy candy for the last few months - I will not now say what has happened about the facilities in the last year, but I read you the following: The Management Committee of the PSC at its meeting No 295/21-3-2016, as well as the update of the relevant decision at its 303/13-6-2016 meeting decided as given to students for the academic year 2016-2017 the possibility of payment of financial participation as follows: First instalment of EUR 100 to 30 June, second instalment until July 31, third instalment until August 31, fourth instalment up to September 30, fifth instalment up to October 31, sixth instalment up to November 30 and seventh instalments up to December 31 December. The same applies to postgraduate degrees. In order to re-write a thematic section only for examinations, the amount shall be fixed at EUR 50 and shall be paid only once by the statement of the thematic section. What is it that is a lie in the case and much more, when I know - at least from the moment that I have been taking over and because I follow it closely - the operation of the Open University, why does it have a great extent in society and play a social role? I follow closely the efforts that are being made both for grants and for facilitating students and students and various other actions that honor the Open University, its board of directors and teachers in it. If you want, I can testify. But anyway, it's also on the University's website. The Open University website is easily accessible to everyone. Don't create issues where they don't exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u22	Madam Minister, June 22nd.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, too. The Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks will now answer Mr Christos Spirtzis in two questions. The first is the ninth under number 956/7-6-2016 topical question of the second question of the MP Heraklion of the New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygeakis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the new delay in the construction of the new airport in Kastelli Crete. Mr. Ignace, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister, unfortunately, I am compelled today to bring back a subject on which I have made too many speeches. I need to see why an important development project and the future of Crete remains in the plans and goes from an extension. The construction of the international airport in Kastelli is a work of breath for Crete. It is important to note that I submitted the question we are discussing today in March. I asked you then about compliance with the May deadline you said. Your fault has been cancelled many times, to come almost July to discuss when the process will finally be completed, what is the strategic planning for the completion of the tender and the construction of the new airport in Kastelli. As of May 2014, an international tender for the construction of the new airport and road connections had been opened. According to the new schedule, the new international airport would be ready in five years and would be expected to be completed by 2019. Unfortunately, the government has been delayed trying to expel its ideas for at least two years after it has wasted more than a year to decide what it intends to do with the new airport. He subsequently scheduled the new tender for May 6, 2016. And we don't know, of course, whether he did it with soul pain or tears in the eyes. Mr. Spirtzi, you know very well. Of course, in order not to be well informed, continue inconsistencies and drawbacks. There have been continual prolongations, deferrals and frugality of the government, so that another year can be lost. So, we have the following: Firstly, you yourself stated that the tender will be completed at the beginning of May, while, on your own initiative, Mr Spirtzi, you have given the parties concerned the opportunity to submit their comments and suggestions on the tenders. It was not a matter of wisdom, Minister, that we told you, but a matter of common sense. Unfortunately, the facts confirmed our fears. The contradictory policy of the government continued once again. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Madam President. Secondly, the tender will be completed at the end of July. The country's Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, officially stated on 16 June at the event "Greece, fair growth, productive reconstruction", announcing the New Economy Development Plan, commonly "SANO". Well, we don't eat hay, Minister. There the Prime Minister announced that at the end of July the binding financial offers are submitted and that the project will be implemented under a concession agreement. Thirdly, the tender will be completed on 30 September. Watch out. The next day just after the Prime Minister, you yourself, Mr Minister, disproved your Prime Minister himself. You signed a new decision according to which you are extending until the end of September. And after you understood your gave and after the Cretan media reacted with your lies, you send the Secretary-General of your Ministry, Mr. Dede, to entertain the impressions, highlighting funny excuses. He said something about summertime and the optimization of healthy competition. We didn't understand much - much. We recognize that every month you also give a new extension and you are really consistent with your inconsistency. No development work walks and at the same time you have left to his fate the airport "Nikos KAZADZAKIS". No maintenance work has been done. I would remind you, Mr Spirtzi, that I have tabled a question since March and I would point out the necessary interventions for the smooth operation of the airport 'Nikos KAZANTZAKIS', that is to say, of the airport which is currently receiving thousands of visits. We have made concrete proposals that are realistic, practicable and without insuperable costs. We understand where we are. You have done absolutely nothing, so the situation is getting worse. Current publications refer to the problem of the operation of air conditioners and the ventilation system. I hope you've been informed of this. It doesn't work almost anything anymore in this place. Minister, I am, after all, obliged by the developments and the continuing extensions, to ask very simple and very specific questions: will the tender finally take place, even on 30 September? Why are you giving these continuous extensions? Why are you delaying the most important project for the development of Crete? And the simplest: do you believe this project? Do you want it? What are you doing about this project for Crete? And I beg you very much, because you are used to throwing the ball at the platform, you are confined to your object and the time you are at the wheel of this ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Ignace, you weren't running the time properly. Please keep him in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u26	Madam President, thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u27	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Aygeakis, in November, there have been nearly thirteen years since the construction of the new Heraklion airport in Kastelli was officially announced. In these years, the airport in Kastelli has announced it as three prime ministers, while it was used at all their election gatherings in Heraklion. But the one who will launch the construction of the airport in five years' time will be the current Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u29	I'm sure it won't be you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u30	...and will deliver it to the people of Crete as they have to deliver it. I can tell you day after day - the time of the announcements, what happened with previous governments. Comparison really is catalytic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u31	For your own government to say. You're doing the same thing again!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u32	I'll say about my own government. The comparison, therefore, is catalytic about where the airport was, how it was planned to be, and what is being done today. Because your memory is weak and selective, let us remember them with time: On 19 November 2003, there was the first announcement of the highway in the ‘Nikos KAZADZAKIS’. Minister of Transport and Communications was Christos Verelis. This announcement was made by the then Prime Minister and the new airport would be ready in 2007. Elections were held on 7 March 2004. The then Prime Minister Konstantinos Karamanlis announced it with Minister Liapis. I can tell you very thoroughly. But I'm saying it briefly for the sake of abbreviation. On February 24, 2009 - it has been quite a while since - the Minister of PTHHODE Giorgos Soufflias at a press conference in Athens presented once again the new international airport Heraklion. Elections took place in September 2009 and went back. The then Minister, George Souflias, announced in an election and announced the tender, without informing either the completion of the studies or the consultation of local bodies and residents, as usual with the motorways. This whole story goes to this day, so I don't tire you with history. Just to say for the last few years: On 11 November 2014, an invitation to tender for derogations and for tendering documents was approved. On 16 December 2014, an extension was granted on the date of submission of tenders. On 17 December 2015, the technical changes were approved and the date of submission of a tender was extended. On 7 April 2015, the approval of the technical changes took place. I'll tell why. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Madam President, I would like a minute to mention what we have done. So, Mr Augiakis, what we have done was to change the terms and the tender issues. What have we changed them to? I would like to inform you, to see why - in your opinion - we have been delayed. We have an increase in the minimum percentage of public participation from 45% to 55%, which is a competitive size. We have increased the gravity of the criterion of the requested financial contribution by the State, namely the one to be involved can give the money that the Greek State will put, EUR 220 to 250 million, so that the public will not be charged. We have an increase in the gravity of the economic supply of the contestants. These are the changes. We have a radical change in the method of selecting the independent engineer with substantial public participation, not like what we are used to. We have interventions in the minimum technical elements of the contest, which means that we will have an architectural committee so that it does not become a monstrous one again. We have a bioliquid building. We've established the minimum environmental footprint.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u33	That's all there were before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u34	It didn't exist before, Mr. Ausgeakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u35	Now, let me, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u36	There wasn't a single word. We put interventions in the provision and installation of modern systems and equipment for the provision of airport navigation services. Interventions were made on issues that increase the social acceptance of the project. The remuneration fee increased from 1% to 2% to the Government over the airport’s gross revenues. We established public participation in the airport construction and operation company by adding regulation to the concession agreement so that the shares that the State has are guaranteed. There is now flexibility in transferring the concessionaire’s shares to various investment funds, infrastructure, pension funds and insurance companies. [[At this point, the closing bell of the Secretary-General's speaking time is ringing.]] With all these new forecasts - and not only - the public interest is fully guaranteed and at the same time they close all windows for insecure...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u37	Minister, you have your second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u38	I'll be done. We have started - and I conclude with this - the expropriations, as you know very well, so that there is not what usually exists in the projects that Mr Souflias and the New Democracy have started, i.e. arrogant compensation due to delays in expropriation. We also anticipated the early archaeological work to be done. In my dentistry, I'll tell you the rest I haven't had time to analyse now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u39	Here, Mr. Ausgeakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u40	Finally, Minister, you are extremely predictable. You spent most of your time invoking the history and course of this posted confession, however, you neglected the Chrysochoid period. Do you remember where you were then, in the Chrysochide period?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u41	I'll tell you everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u42	You were advisor to the State, advisor to the State as president of the Technical Chamber. Did you forget that? I imagine, randomly! I'm sure of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u43	You changed it. Until the day before yesterday, you said that I was an advisor...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u44	As you also forgot about the Vérelis period. Nevertheless, Minister, you will allow me to tell you that all that has changed in relation to the notice was the font alone. Let me tell you that what you are claiming is another lie in the so much abundantly navigable in every position you place. You are falsifying or at least thinking that you are falsifying the Greek people and especially the Cretans. Let me remind you, Minister - I know you don't like it, but I will tell you - that we have had the airport auction since December 2014. You've wasted a whole year to balance between your aristocratic ideas. Finally, you did not consider the work of the new airport. You have, of course, only been concerned with words, because we still have not seen any works. We have celebrated, Mr Spirtzi, with your heavy statements on the projects you are going to do. You have something left of your PASOC period. Now I'll be sorry for you one more time. I know this is annoying, too, but I will ask you about the northern road axis of Crete. You make big statements. That's bad with you, you talk a lot, and that's what's left, you know, and we find it very easy in front of us, we don't get too heavy. It's all recently, yesterday. This evil is what you have when you promise to be wise and with a lot of comfort. In spite of the statements made, therefore, that the BOC is a priority, we can see that this is not being done in practice. There is nowhere official decision to plan the implementation of the BOAK. There is no provision, Mr Spirtzi, for joining the 2014-2020 ETUC. There is also no official decision to join the Juncker Pack and at random something else said by Mr Stathakis, who is in Chania days ago. We have repeatedly expressed our concerns. Over the past one and a half years, with parliamentary intervention under parliamentary control, we have noted that: Firstly, there has been no inclusion of part or all of the project in the 2014-2020 EPA. Secondly, the projects included in the NRP 2007-2013 and under its document No 107551/21-10-2015 by the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism Mr Stathakis told us that ‘in the 2014-2020 programming period two categories of actions are envisaged, which concern only the BOAK, with a total public expenditure of EUR 125 million’. ‘Alongside’ continues in the response of ‘data of the limited amount of resources available under the ESRB, all available sources of resource extraction are investigated’. Mr. Spirtzi, tell us what these sources of funding are. Where will this project be financed? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Current publications refer to the availability clause with the European Investment Bank. Is it going to be activated? It is a simple question, and I hope it will be the same clear and the answer you will give if you can give it. Can the state make 30 million euros a year for a project of EUR 300 million, repaying this specific loan? Should there be a strategic study? These are questions in particular. They're not theories. At your rate, I'm very afraid, Mr. Spirtzi, the BOAK won't happen in 2050. And I'm not in danger. Don't tell us that in 2050 Mr. Tsipras will be here to launch the BOAK, because we better get out of this country! I simply see the political inconsistencies that you are described as. In a minute, Madam President. And I'll go to another theme: on the street of Heraklion - Mesara. I imagine that you are acquainted with this because you have made too many statements at times. I hope no soul and tears in the eyes that you have been used to lately! You know! As you did when you signed for the fourteen regional airports, as you did for the Greek. I guess you'll remember, you haven't forgotten! Since the beginning of 2015, the competitive process for the Agia Varvara - Apmarma division, the control by the CI, the information of the Parliament and the compromise remains. You have delayed, Mr Spirtzi, an entire tragic year, so that the European funds committed to the implementation of the project are lost. In fact, you confirmed this under the document No 1912/22/2016 of the Special Infrastructure, Transport, Environment and Sustainable Development Management Agency. The document reads: ‘This project cannot be co-financed by the NSRP and is expected to be completed by national resources’. You assured me of this, Step by step, that money we've guaranteed infinitely. ‘Secondly’, says the document, ‘to be classified as incomplete in the final report of the closure of the accessibility enhancement, with an obligation to complete and operate within two years from the deadline for the submission of the closure documents, i.e. until March 2019’. If it is not completed by March 2019, there is a risk that the Community's resources will be returned and you will understand it and of course you will hide it. Once again, however, you have not answered us when the road to Heraklion - Mesara will be completed, where will it be specifically financed. All we have so far is the statements on your long-term plans. But for works, we don't see works. Only conflicting statements and extensions are seen. That is a good statement, but unfortunately it is not enough to do the work. Acts are required, Mr. Minister. You're unreliable. We call on you to come to Heraklion, as Mr Katrugalos did, but he has not been able to speak. You hope and we will do everything you can to be able to talk to the world, to see if at the end of the day all that you with an extra comfort, smiling, expressing from here, the Cretan people, who are watching at this hour, are in a position to believe and convince that this government, you personally, admittedly, are tired and afflicted to run these major infrastructure projects on Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u45	Minister, you have the floor, but please limit yourself to the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u46	I will try to see why the extension of Mr. Aigenakis to other issues means the deadlock in which he has reached his response to the airport's response to Kastelli.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u47	I guess you know things. You said you'd answer the second part.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u48	We'll go to the rest. I see you with tears in your eyes and with pain of your soul,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u49	Someone else has the tears.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u50	...because we're making your homeland the way...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u51	You said that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u52	...that your resignation, Mr. Augenakis, has not been able to do since 1950. Leave 2050.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u53	What didn't he do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u54	In your homeland in Mesara, the road will be made by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u55	The work began by Konstantinos Karamanlis and George Souflias.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u56	Let's go down. I see you tears in your eyes to watch this. Secondly, you said, 'cause you used to lie to yourself, it's not the first time...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u57	Who's talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u58	You get used to it, and then your partners disguise you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u59	Minister, do you have the mirror in front of you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u60	Do you have an approval...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u61	You've got Agnace in front of you and you're talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Ignace, let him speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u63	You have approved final tenders in the context of the open international competition on 10 June. I'll put it before Mr. Augias that the issues have been changed, not that only the font has changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u64	Only the font has changed, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u65	I will also present the answer I gave you, because it is not enough to tell you, you want to tell you a second and a third time to inspire them. Thirdly, in order to avoid any doubt as to how ready we are, I will submit the mission we have sent to the European Commission in order to auction the work at the end of July. The date is 21 June. They tell us that at nine hours of Central Europe, it can be posted. I'm filing it out to be in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You know, Mr Augias, when we want to make major changes and not have a repetition of concessions on the motorway, so that the citizens cannot use it, so that there are no other public-private partnerships, so that there is no local society, so that there is no exhibition space, so that the public can not put the money on the road, so that it does not give hundreds of millions of millions of people why the expropriations have not been made, so that the local society can finally take part in Heraklion's board of directors, all that I said before happens must have the approval of the European Bank and be accepted by the European institutions, that the Ministry should work, that the consultants should not take part from day to day. When we were ready - and we were ready - and this is proved, because we have sent it - the participants asked for an extension because they could not complete the discussions with the banking institutions and we cannot do what has been done for too many years, namely to have competitions with one or a few candidates. We have therefore responded to the request. The play went for September 30th. You've been late for about 20 years. We will be delaying this two months, but it will be a project for the benefit of local society and a project that will be done. On September 30th we invite you to the Ministry to see the files that will have been filed for the offer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u66	For the rest, you didn't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u67	I'm sorry, Madam President. On one thing, we agree with Mr. Ausgeakis. You say in your communication - not here - that the Government must clarify its position because the Cretans are not accepting any further deception. I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u68	That's true, but it's from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u69	You've been cheating on them for twenty years, Mr. Ausgeakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u70	From Mr. Spirtzi and Mr. Tsipras personally!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u71	And that's why there's this government to stop this deception.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u72	Go down and tell Heraklion! Follow Mr Polakis' example.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Aggenakis, you're done, you've been abusing time. We proceed to the second under number 5113/26. -4-2016 question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the exclusion of Crete from the new roadmap of Greece. Mr. Kegerolwa, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you invited us and a few weeks ago to auction the Kastelio airport and unfortunately was postponed for the fifth time. But with this kind of confrontation, which the Cretan people have seen before, work is not done and the truth is not said. You have said very important assumptions in relation to the project's course. The project essentially began to be studied and prepared for maturation from 2009 onwards. The six years of Karamanlis, with which you have identified politically for other reasons, you and your party and Mr. Tsipras personally did not have much to offer. But, in any case, you have given as many postponements as all the previous ones have done. Why don't you tell the truth that it's a matter of more general investment interest on the part of the banks to take part in shapes to fund the project? Why are you saying that it is only procedural? Why are you saying it's just bureaucracy and so-called studies? It is a more general issue, which is about the interest of investors and the possibility of supporting bankers at international level, of course, and not just in our country. So we start from there. A few days ago you arrived at the point where you said, by an oral Prime Minister, that the project was being auctioned at the end of July. In a few hours you said about September 30th. You know, this has caused more confusion. Maybe it was random, I don't know. And it confirms what I ask. What is the government's design? What is the route you have for infrastructure projects in Crete and the development of Crete? The reason for the question - and I must say it - is a post in 'HUNGIA', following your interview and your statements on all the major projects in the country. That's where we see you're coming to the Peloponnese. There was no map of the country from the Peloponnese down. There was no Crete. It obviously did not exist because you did not refer to any work. Since then, as before, you've been sailing for both BOAK and Kastelio Airport. For the BOAK for a year and a half, you have been telling us about strategic planning and in the last few days you have been talking to us about partition construction, as in other words, it was the previous time. Only these departments aren't built! These parts are ripe, studied, funded, integrated, auctioned, but do not go any further, Minister! That's my question. And, accidentally, every time I have a question about the subject, on the eve you make announcements, either with photos of the principal or with other factors on the island, announcing that the works are going on. Lucky? But it is not at all accidental and the fact that afterward there is nothing going on! You did the same with the work Heraklion - Messara and Panormo - Eantine. Born here you told me it was over. You said to me: 'I signed it and financed it, don't ask again.' And now what month do we have? It's the day after tomorrow, Julius! So do not make statements and say big words 'finished, he showed'. Tell the reality about the economy. Tell the reality of bureaucracy. Bring that law that you say, but not about study and construction and all the tricks you say, to give where you want the works. You know there's gonna be a lot of discussion about what you're preparing for. Bring and testify the design for Crete, to see where we can contribute on our part, so that, in fact, the huge infrastructure projects, such as the new international airport in Kastelli, but also the BOAK and the vertical axes, go, at least as far as the mature and funded sections are concerned. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] They were rejected by the Community framework, due to the delay, and one section and the other. Now, with the new delay, we are at risk, if it is not ready by 30 March 2017, I think - to disprove me or confirm it - that we also have a problem with the money we have received for the rest of the project, that is, that is, that has already been carried out. So I think that we all need to see a difficult reality, with no big words and bugs, and see how to deal with these inherent problems that exist, so that they can proceed with the projects and not just by the words. People are full of words.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Kegeroglu, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u76	What's 'all right'?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u77	You've exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u78	Oh, I thought it was okay that he went to saying that he's full of words. Well, we agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u79	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleagues, on the basis of a press release, you asked the timely question. But let's have a look at the post. The post states: "As the Minister of Infrastructure Christos Spirtzis announced, during an event about the delivery of the Lefktro motorway - Sparta, forty-seven kilometers...". And then he makes a report on the rest of the highways in progress, the five highways, the five concessions plus some parts of the Egnatia Road. Therefore, obviously, Crete has not been abandoned by this government. I'm filing the report in the Minutes to be inside. [[At this point the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Because you said a few things before about Kastelli, I'll start at Kastelli to answer your question, in relation to the Ministry's responsibilities. Investors are interested in the airport of Kastelio and it is intense. So it has nothing to do with other bureaucracy or delays. There is real interest in investors. But there is also our interest in guaranteeing the public interest at last. It is not on a project like Kastelli that we do not ensure what this airport will have to do with local society, how the airport is connected with local society, how it participates, how it is "exploited" - in the good sense of the term - local society and how we ensure other things, that the Greek State can save money - I said it before Mr Aegakis does not want to understand - how he will not give hundreds of millions of indemnity, because the expropriations have not been completed, how he will cover within this economic situation the costs that exist and concern the archaeological work or other costs. That's not because the Minister says so. These want a lot of work from the Services, a lot of work from the consultants, they want to negotiate with the European Investment Bank, with the Greek Statistical Authority and, of course, with the local government agencies in Crete. You know very well that our cooperation with both the municipalities and the region is very close. The second thing I want to say is to talk about the BOAK in detail, because it is a work of breath for Crete. We had fragmentary design, fragmentary work, with huge problems, both in the processes and in their execution. We received a chaos situation with the BOAK, there was no knowledge where there were studies, which parts of the road were of maturity, for which studies had been commissioned, for which parts nothing had been done. There was a systematic job. I'm presenting the evidence. If you'd like, I can also testify to you a section of what's happened. The BOAK is about three hundred miles [300 km]. Built parts or under construction and within them we put the auctioned sections, such as the Panormos - Exanti section, is a hundred ten kilometers, of which 61.5 km is a highway and 48.5 km is a diverse section. Studies are being carried out at a very slow rate, because there are serious problems - and I will say them in my secondary speech - at a hundred and twenty-four kilometres and without any contract is about sixty-six kilometers. What have we done?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u81	Minister, in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u82	No, I'm saying this and the rest of the projects, which are very important for the development of Crete, I'll tell you later. A call for proposals was published on 16 June, including the strategic study for the BOAK, in a budget of EUR 4 million. I'll testify to you so you can have it. The technical bulletin will be submitted by the Ministry by 10 July. The strategic study is a request from Crete and a prerequisite not only for the completion of the project but also for its optimal design. I'll give it to you. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The provision for the EWRS is projects worth 130m euros. Two projects have already been integrated. The first one is the Hersonissos, which is made. The final studies have recently been approved, since they did not exist, even when the final studies of technical projects were tendered. We had manufacturers and we didn't have a scholar. At the same time, the scholar came out. This is a paradox! The second is the connection of the BOAK to the city of Chania through the unequal node of the Mournaies, which is a request for decades of the city, which was as usual stuck in expropriations. It goes away, despite efforts, because we have a legal and procedural involvement for the Panormos - Exante. Obviously, Messara has expired and the notification remains to the contractor. At the same time, the agreement and action with the European Investment Bank have been made to find the necessary funding. We have had a first commitment from the European Bank in the past. Now it's going to be final. In my second speech, I will say about the rest of the work that has been done by my colleague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u83	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I gave you a chance, but you didn't seize it. I have told you that there are more general issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u85	There are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u86	But you spoke about safeguarding the public interest. So, what do you mean? Do you mean that six or eight months ago or a year ago, when you did the work yourself, did you not ensure that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u87	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u88	A month ago was the auction on May 6th. Wasn't it safe? In July, wasn't it guaranteed? Why is it guaranteed in September? Listen, people want truths. Say, then, that the work was mature in fact between now and 2014. It had become a very important job from the Ministry's services. Don't deceive them. Of course, due to the more general circumstances, the lack of intensified interest in giving an offer in this period, the Ministry has - and well did - made improvements. But we have to tell the truth. I believe that following the general developments there can be interest in the next period, given that the European Investment Bank or private banking systems in our country and Europe can be involved in project financing. That's very basic. If, then, the next period is such that, I think we will also have a project auction rather than a new postponement. I consider it secondary that one day the Prime Minister said about until the end of July and the next day you announced until 30 September. There are also issues of understanding that are often unsuccessful. It could be like that. The essence, however, is that this important project for Crete and its development for the next 50 years must be prioritised. As far as the North Road Axis and as a general rule for the road system in Crete, we are full of studies of strategies, national and regional. A strategic study had been carried out before by Secretary-General Choka. Money was also given at that time, two million euros. The question is: After all the history of discussions about strategies, national and regional studies, you end up with today's publication saying that the project will be done in part and without tolls. Very well. But we were saying that two years ago and a year ago. Specific sections have been auctioned and were integrated into programmes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I say "they were integrated", because now they go to national resources, such as the Panormos - Exanti or Heraklion - Messara, which I am glad to hear will finally be completed, as you are sure now that you will be able to award within July and sign the contract...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u89	Next week.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u90	I'm glad to hear that because we had a misfortune in February. I'm putting myself in "we're miserable." We were happy in February, but we were miserable, as we were, and happy six months ago, but we were miserable. Now, if this is done, because it is a project that also catches the remains of other projects, that is to say, the 'here', as they say in technical terminology, will be really something very important. This axis will finally be completed. We need to see the road that goes to the airport, to Kastelli, from the Hersonissos and from the section of Heraklion - Viannos. We need to see all these sections, which have studies and which need to be financed. We must not constantly turn them into a strategic study. What will the strategic study show? It will show that projects need to be studied and carried out by sections. The York - Hersonissos Department, you said, has been entrusted by the previous government. It has begun its implementation by the previous government and is moving on. And it's going well. You have not yet made the allocation for this year. That's the void there. It's today's issue. You must go ahead and do it so that the work between the two frameworks, from one to the other, is financed through national resources. In any case, I tell you that what was brought back by his letter to the President of the Republic of Crete, who sent to us and to the Prime Minister, using the availability clause by the Greek State for the completion of the works, is nothing but to restore the very correct proposal of Michael Chrysochide, which was discussed with the institutions of Crete and accepted. And I think that, without waste of time, we should move on with this logic, which is nothing but the implementation of the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u91	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Kegeroglu, in some of what you said I do not disagree, but in some of the other things I disagree. I'll give you the painting of where there are studies - the ones we found - to see. And when we say studies, we do not mean final studies of the project, we are talking about the necessary environmental studies in order for the project to join somewhere, to have elementary, middle, as it is called, maturity. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. If you want, take the paintings.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u93	So the Panormos - Exante project didn't have a study?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u94	Now I'll tell you. The Warrens - Hersonissos project had no studies. He didn't. It's paradoxical. Really, it's paradoxical. The project was auctioned, we had a manufacturer and we had no final studies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u95	They needed some supplements. That's what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Kegeroglu, don't answer. We're not gonna end this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u97	Oh, no. Final studies. Look into it. I'm not in a mood of any other kind. Look into it and you'll see the truth. I also want to be very honest with you. Some issues about how the public interest is guaranteed are political issues. In my opinion, we must not - and you will see from the point of view - take such an initiative - put in, become a manufacturer in a project if the expropriations are not completed, because then what we all know is very well, at a very high cost for the Greek people. I will tell you where all the things we told you about July turn out to be from. And from the document I submitted before, which we had sent to the European Commission, to publish, and from this table, I will also present it - which says date - the approval date for technical changes, the extension of the date for submission of tenders. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. So the extensions we have given, so that we do not start a process at the beginning and want too much time, were - and we had announced that - to change the tender documents. And we did. Now, I think we should also say about the rest of the projects. We said about the work of the Messara road that it was completed. Apostlemi’s work continues with three shifts. The tunnel is three and a half miles long. One thousand nine hundred and fifty-four metres have been opened. We estimate that by the end of 2016 we will have the completion of the project. Also to say about road safety projects. It is not just the government's commitment that will make it possible for Crete to get this way, but until it is done, we cannot close our eyes to the blood spilled on the existing roads. That is why we have committed EUR 15 million for road safety upgrade projects. There is also the adoption of 500,000 euros for the adoption of the road safety study. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] There is also the unfinishedness for the completion of the Khamezion bridge. This is where amazing procedures have happened. There's been half the bridge, Madam President. First paradox. An additional EUR 4 million is needed for the half bridge to support it. A second paradox. 2 million euros are needed to be completed. We're committed to doing this, but first...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u98	Do you know about the fake bailouts?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u99	No, she has another problem with her stagnation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u100	If he's got fake bailouts, he'll have other problems!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u101	We will first see the responsibilities for this project and then it will be completed. It is also pending, because we are in the specific geographical area that I have informed you, the examination of an improvement proposal for the route to Good Water and the other points we have mentioned. It is a given fact that if we were to find a strategic study for the BOAK, we would not have these delays, even if the projects were fragmented. We would not have them, because we would not have entered into the logic used in our country, and it must end at some point, the type, where the road will pass, what interest will be served, what land will be expropriated, what will not be expropriated and all the others that the country has lived through over the years. So I think it is necessary. There has been no strategic planning study so far. It must be done, simply - and that is what we are doing - that all the bureaucratic procedures and all the funding procedures are running at the same time, in order to complete this work and all the rest of it, and that is what we are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u102	Thank you too, Minister. An eighth question will be discussed under number 987/13-6-2016 on the possibility of a 60% reduction in the pension of farmers, in accordance with Article 20 of the new insurance law. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I would first like to say that I am very pleased that you have decided to respect the parliamentary procedure and to come and answer my question, which, as you know, has really upset the country's rural world. He has been upset by him, Minister, because of the unclear consequences of the new Insurance Law 4387/2016, which was adopted a month and a half ago by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. I say painfully, because if the implementing framework under Article 20 of this law includes farmers, then pensioners who, as the law says, take up work or acquire a status or have a compulsory activity in the insurance of the young, paranoid - I will say - are losing 60% of their pension. In practical terms, in terms of pensioners farmers and rural women, who, in order to survive, also have to cultivate their small lot, are 60% cut in their pensions? As you can see, Minister, this regulation is both unheard of and irreversible and constitutional in terms of the principle of equality. Because the authors of the law obviously ignore the fact that the philosophy of agricultural pensions is on the basis of symbolic and prosperous, since the majority of pensioners get the “mythical” amount of EUR 340 a month. So it is not a drafting of the public or a drafting of the IKA, which, of course, has also been cut off, as you know. That is why I cannot hear you say that for all the insured, pension cuts were provided for and because the rules are the same, there is a cut for farmers. No, Minister, because equality requires equal treatment of situations and a different approach to situations. So the same measures and weights cannot apply to the cut-off for a pension of EUR 300 and to a pension of EUR 900. Obviously the authors of the law also ignore the fact that, with this pension and the small lot of pensioners and rural women, they are living in these years of deep new recession and their unemployed children. I repeat, this is EUR 340! The philosophy of this small agricultural pension was that the retired farmer at the same time cultivated. So he cannot be sentenced to income death and actually ask him to live with 139 euros a month, because he will cultivate twenty acres of fields. Unless there in the government, of course, you think all pensioners suddenly became rich! So I ask you directly whether this article concerns, firstly, the farmers and, secondly, who are concerned with them. The young people, the ones who since 1/7 of this year, have been retiring? Is this about the old people they've been cultivating? Is this about old people who now decide to grow? Make it clear at last, Minister, a month and a half after the implementation of the law, because it really is a disgrace. Where farmers expected a third and fourteenth pensions, believeting in good faith all these election announcements, they are now at risk and with a 60% cut in the small pension they receive today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u104	Here, Mr. Petropoulou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Arabatzis, I did not expect you to mention anything in a passionate way you mentioned last time, requesting permission from Mr Kremastinos, to succeed against me, claiming that I do not respect Parliament. I didn't expect that! Because you know very well that on Friday, June 17th, I had miserable, serious obligations at the Ministry, it was morning at 10:00, I told you that I cannot come and if you agreed to say that you also asked me the same question. You have agreed to say this to the House and to mention that you have asked the same question, which I have made quite clear, it is also in the Minutes of the House that Mrs Arabatzis has the same question for tomorrow and I reply to it. You know, I was in the front, you agreed to do it, I did it. I didn't need this passion against me, if I knew that you wanted me to come back, say it again, I would have come. I'm here now. I will repeat what I said last time, because nothing has changed since that day, namely that the pensions of farmers are not subject to any cuts in the procedure which had already been opened with the statements. Because that was the start of the question - and you include it, in particular, in this part - that is, if it concerns them, given the final deadline for submitting IACS declarations on 15-6-2016, what will apply to the submission of statements by pensioners and whether it will play a part in the pension cut. I have replied that there is no case and there is no reason for farmers to worry about such a cut and to submit their rights. I repeat this statement now. You claim that farmers' pensions amount to EUR 340. You are obviously ignoring that farmers' pensions, already paid, are reduced to the disappearance of the basic pension, which in 2026 is zeroed, while we are talking about another level of pension, a pension that all Greeks receive. Indeed, my placement that you mentioned just before, explains why farmers themselves fall into the same rules as the other Greeks. It is in no way, and I said this last time, to cut pensioners, who are already retired, that this is not a matter of my own statement - and there is therefore no need for this question to be constantly raised as a fear for farmers, that is to say if the pensioners already will have a 60% reduction in their pensions. There's no such thing as that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u106	Here, Mrs. Arabatzis, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u107	First of all, Mr Minister, I would like to say that you are not doing us any favour coming to Parliament to respond to parliamentary scrutiny. We are a multi-party parliament and you must come and answer the questions of Members of all the wings and all the parties. Of course, I do not feel that you did a special favor in answering another question and referring to my name. I, Minister, regrettably, because I have read the Minutes of this particular question, I still cannot understand - and I want you to reply to us - what will happen. There will be no cutback for old pensioners and there will be for young people? So, in particular, I asked you, those who now come out of pension from 1 July of this year and want to cultivate their small lot, will they be cut by 60% of their pension? That's my question. If your intentions were so clear and clear, because, Minister, one month and twenty days after the vote on this bill, you have not issued any interpretative circular or the relevant ministerial decision nor, in any case, what is envisaged. The OGA, for example, which is intended to implement and pay, does not have the necessary legislative framework, the necessary implementing decision, yours, in order to implement it. So do not seek the responsibilities of the upset you have created, to the ones we come and ask you what will finally happen. Because if you go a little bit to the periphery and listen to the world, that is why there was a alalum with the statements made by the UCLAF, because the rural world was a resurrection and did not know what would happen. You said, of course, that I am obviously unaware of the drafting of the EUR 384, for which, Minister, you are familiar with the so-called national pension. You even said that the basic pension provided for in the previous law was zero in 2026. You know, Minister, I like to be practical. This in practice had absolutely no consequence in the farmer's pocket. As long as the master was up, the base would go down and zero in 2026 or the main would go up. For this reason, the farmer would get to the end - and now in 2026 - the EUR 347, 360 minus certain reservations. You are now saying that you are equating farmers to everyone else who is insured. In fact, you're equating them for the 384 euros. But you are hiding - and I do not want to say dormantly - that this EUR 384, the rural world, Minister, will take it from 1-1 to 2033. Why would that be, Minister? Because very simply the rate of the replacement of our own law, the 2% that we gave farmers, you downloaded it to 0.70%. This means that the farmer, in order to be able to reach the minimum replacement rate, at EUR 384, will only have to go by 2033. Meanwhile - and here is the flagrant injustice, Minister - the farmer from 2022 will pay 27% of his income, like all other pensioners, but the others will get 384 euros, and he will not. These in 2033. If you consider this fair, please clearly and unequivocally. Of course you realise, Minister, that all this is happening in an environment of the primary sector which you have completely bombed, because you are of course the government that increased the tax on farmers from 13% to 22% to 45%. You are the government that has launched insurance contributions, the cost of production from VAT from 13% to 24%. You are the first government to tax agricultural subsidies from the first euro. And obviously this is the fair growth that your Prime Minister is even announcing today. There are too many and countless questions that pensioners ask us every day. I want something simple to ask you. A retired farmer who now goes to retirement, sixty-seven years old, in order not to lose 60%, transfers his fields. His wife, Minister, who is attracting agricultural status, and her pension from these fields of her husband, how will she be retired as soon as she becomes sixty-seven? Will he start a profession? How? These are practical issues that you must answer. And you know what, Minister, this world is producing, motivating, trying, to get your government taxes, insurance contributions, work and advancement. So you must be, if anything, honest and respect the trouble and the hardship of these people and not consider them rich when they take EUR 340 and have twenty acres of fields. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u108	Thank you. Mrs Arabatzis, however, you too have exceeded the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u109	I respected him in protology absolutely.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u110	I hope Mr. Petropoulos respects him. Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u111	That's what I always do, Madam President. I am sorry to have to come back to what is unjustly said about me, that I did not want to come and answer. It's written in the Minutes. Then let me say you framed me. You said to me: 'All right, there's no question if you say that I was asking'. We're not going to fall into this ugly thing. Finally stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u112	Minister, you should actually come in.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u113	I have observed that in the House you have found reason in my absence for changing the next day just what you were telling me the other day. While you agreed...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u114	You should come.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u115	I'd come! I didn't think you'd get to this bad spot, Mrs. Arabaji. Don't insist. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u116	Answer the farmers and leave the pretexts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u117	We're judged for all things. We're all judged on all matters. I was defenseless...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u118	Don't hide behind words.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u119	Mrs. Arabatzis, she didn't interrupt you when you were talking. It's a parliamentary control. We don't do arena right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u120	Is that parliamentary control?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u121	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u122	Mrs. Arabatzis, defenseless because I was not present. You said things against me that had no basis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u123	Well, not against you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u124	You claimed that it would be enough to refer to your name. I did it and the next one you came to denounce me for disrespect.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u125	You didn't hear at all. You did nothing for us, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u126	Okay. I didn't say I was doing a favor...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u127	The reasons for your absence were specious and you know it! In fact, answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u128	Mrs. Arabaji, I didn't say I was doing a favor. I said you agreed you'd be covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u129	I didn't agree to anything, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u130	Anyway. Okay, I'm not going to deal with...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u131	Answer the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u132	Regarding your question, I will repeat the answer. Farmers, first from 1-1-2017, join the ECA. Therefore, this kind of early concern about what will happen has absolutely no consequence and has no reason to worry, as you constantly put it, and with intensity everywhere, from the end to the end of Greece. I hope you didn't get on your neck farmers not to submit an IAC. I hope so. I hope you didn't make them don't make CSU statements. I hope so. I hope you didn't lure them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u133	You go out and support them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u134	We have said this on several occasions, and on 16 June here in the House, my own statement applies. There is no question of farmers. Of course, farmers who maintain and are natural to maintain their activity, because the field is a field and are retired, there is absolutely no reduction in that percentage. The prospect of the farmer's pension coming to the same level as every Greek is changing things. Whether or not this will change the circumstances, we will see it with the circulars that will be issued. There is no question at all at the moment of seeing how we will see this amount of pension, which in any case is changing over time. We take all this into account, and these will be very specificly defined in circulars. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, too. The debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance was then concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-27-S1-commons.u136	With Parliament's consent at the time of 19.47 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, 28 June 2016 at 10.00" on the subject of Parliament's work: a special agenda, Parliament's decisions, debate and vote, in accordance with Rule 76 of the Constitution and Rule 118 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the proposal: "To amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II" (FO 51 A/10.4.1997) and a Part of Parliamentary (FO 106 A'/24.6.1987), as applicable."
