ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 31 August 2016, the Minutes of the PP Meetings, of Wednesday, 31 August 2016, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Agreements on Greek-language education, intercultural education and other provisions’.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the updates of Friday 2 September 2016, which reads as follows: A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The current question, by number 1199/30-8-2016, by MP I Piraeus, New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on the maritime tragedy in Aegina. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 1198/30-8-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance concerning the establishment of a special irresponsible account for all businesses. 3. The 1195/29-8-2016 topical question of the Athens of Independent Greeks, Athanasios Papachristopoulos, Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning police officers serving in the high-profile care service. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question of the situation of red loans to Evros and Thrace under number 1200/30-8-2016. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1196/29-8-2016 topical question of the Member of the Attica of the Independent Greeks Mr Konstantinos Katsikis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the proposal to convert the unemployment benefit to a job subsidy. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Mr Leonida Gregorakos' question to the Minister of Finance about compensation for the shareholders of cooperative banks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 1188/29-8-2016 of the First Cycle of the Grevena MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Beyalas to the Minister of Finance on the end of a trade in villages under five hundred inhabitants. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Alexiadis, will answer. Please, Mr. Beyala, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I asked this question because we are living in these difficult times and the end of a trade which entered in 2011 with Mr.3986/2011. However, the law refers to Article 3(3) to the exempted parties, the areas exempted from the trade fee. In particular, it states that the exemption from the trade charge for taxpayers who have a profession or a profession in villages with a population of up to five hundred inhabitants and islands of less than three thousand, except for tourist sites, is taken into account in the villages and islands, as envisaged before the entry into force of the 'CAPPTRIA' project. In order to find the population, account is taken of the census then, of course, of 18 March 2001. The 2011 census was then made. But while the law is clear and specific and states that the villages are taken into account, Poll 1149/20-6-2013 comes from the then Secretary General of Public Incomes Theocharis Theocharis and we have a differentiation. In the clarification, it says that pursuant to Article 31(3) of Law No 3986/2011, undertakings, natural or legal persons and free professionals carrying out their activities exclusively in villages, as foreseen before the start of the project, with a population of up to five hundred inhabitants and islands of up to three thousand inhabitants, unless they are tourist sites. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Furthermore, the Ministerial Decision of the Ministry of Finance - MOL 1167/2011 stated that the 2001 census and tourist sites should be taken into account as the ones included in dd 899/76, as amended by dd 664/77. The administration has, of course, already accepted that account will be taken of the population of villages which constituted prior to the implementation of the COPESTRIA project (Law 2539/1997) autonomous legal persons, i.e. communities. It comes and differentiates the term ‘via’ and sets the term ‘commons’. Therefore, if a village were not, during the period considered by itself and was administratively owned by another community or municipality, the population of the community or the municipality concerned would be taken into account for the exemption from the trade charge. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is also the circular on April 3, 2014, where it mentions the same, that for its implementation it accepts independent legal persons, i.e. communities.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Beyla, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u5	I'm closing, Mr. President. What has happened is that communities close to a municipality and while they are small populations, however, are charged with the end of a trade. That means that we have this huge injustice. While, in other words, this community may have fifty inhabitants, it still pays a trade fee and closes a village with four hundred, four hundred fifty inhabitants, an active village, may not pay a trade fee. It is an injustice, which we will have to correct basically with POL, because the law refers to villages and not communities. So we will restore this injustice, which occurs in many villages in the province. Because we are talking about a village with 50 - 100 inhabitants who have a café and because it was not a self-sacrificing community, but it was a community together with three other, four villages or one municipality, it is attached and it pays 650 euros. I would point out, of course, that this is charged not only to professionals but also to farmers who have revenue and expenditure books, that is to say, are subject to the normal scheme. I would ask the Ministry, in other words, to issue a POL, so that in the next tax year, in which tax declarations will be made, the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, it will change the situation and do it as it was in 2011 and 2012. This is because they were charged in 2013, 2014 and 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Beala. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, with your question you raise a very good point, a point you have raised on other occasions, but also on other Members, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, and in bills, but also in meetings, because there is an injustice here. We're talking about two villages and one is smaller than the other. Before 1997, the small village was not a community, while the other village was a community. What was not a community but with other villages around - they were forming a community and having fewer inhabitants, because it was not a separate legal form before the "KOPESTRIA" project before 1997, at this time it has a trade end, while the largest village - which was a community - based on these circulars that existed in the Ministry of Finance before the political leadership changed, has no end to a trade. In other words, there is no trade end to the largest village and the smaller village has a trade end, because there was this legal problem. It is something that we have identified as a problem and something that we want to deal with, because it is really an injustice. Of course, as it quite rightly explains the document from the Directorate responsible for Direct Taxation - which I will be tabling in the Minutes, to be informed in detail - if we had implemented the 'Kalikratis' programme since 2011, we would have had much more problems. We have implemented the 'Capestrology' programme before '97'. It is something that we are investigating exactly how to resolve, so that there are no injustices and something that we will certainly give a solution. In any case, however, as is apparent from the General Secretariat of Public Revenue itself, in exceptional cases where the tax administration does not have evidence of the correct enforcement of the trade charge, the taxable persons liable may, if they find mistakes, apply for a new liquidation in order to check the facts. So after checking the facts, the trade fee may be deleted. There is also this possibility described in this document. In any case, they are in the areas that we will deal with and change, because we do not want to have such unfair tax arrangements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u8	Here, Mr. Beyala, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u9	Minister, I am glad you accept the point of order. At this point, I would just like to point out that the PPC two years ago, before implementing this specialisation from villages to communities, through the General Secretariat of Public Income, through the information systems, had the end of a profession per village and was thus not imposed. That is why I told you it was not imposed in 2011 and 2012. By clarifying later, with this POL that has been done, I think it changes the philosophy and meaning of the law. That's why I said the law refers to villages and not to communities at first. The changing POL came in, entered the systems per community prior to the application of the "KAPOSTITRIA", as they existed within the Greek territory. But I think it's easy to do. The General Secretariat of Information Systems can easily, by taking the censuses of 2011, where ELSTAT has recorded the population in each community and in each settlement and the overall as well as the analytical per village, reinstate the situation from ELSTAT of all villages within the system in order not to issue it. In these cases, of course, you are absolutely right to say that when there is a mistake, the taxpayer is addressed to the DUI and corrected. But, here, this cannot be changed, it can be corrected for the year that passed us and the previous ones, because through the system it sees the community and therefore it charges the trade fee. I believe in the next period and until we arrive in 2017 on tax returns, therefore also on the charge of the trade fee for professionals and farmers, the issue has been settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too. Mr Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u11	Mr Papoutsis, please be sure that all these injustices we have inherited - because they are injustices which we inherited from the Ministry of Finance - are injustices that we have identified and with the potential of this specific financial and legal framework in which we live, we correct them one. Of course, the political problem we have to discuss at some point in this Chamber is that many times, not you, of course, but others who have drafted these bills or signed these POLs, come here, shake our fingers and blame us for the application of this legal framework. What can we do, though? We have great patience, and we have this too. What you and everyone else must be sure of is that all these injustices are about either direct or indirect taxation, they are injustices which are in knowledge of the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance, and at the first opportunity and the first opportunity we will face them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, too. We move on to the debate on the third under number 1184/23-8-2016 topical question by Messinas Messinia - Golden Dawn Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister of Finance on the taking over of electronic devices by the SKAI group. The Deputy Minister, Mr Alexiadis, will answer. Mr. Koukoutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in recent years we have seen that much has been said about ecological consciousness. Within the framework of these activities concerning the recycling of electrical and electronic devices in our country, we are monitoring that there is a campaign on behalf of SKAI's television and radio station for the recycling of electrical and electronic devices, as I said before. Automatically, however, some questions arise in the world. The first is, who are the final recipients of these recycled materials, for which there is a certain value. In other words, there are noble metals and there are private companies that do this work, which they render to the world, to the one who delivers the materials and a small amount. We can see it differently. The question, therefore, is this: SKAI crosses this recycling, takes these devices. The question is where, if they take money, that is to say, if they get money from the delivery of these devices beyond - because, as we know, citizens do it unpopularly - if there are evidence, if taxes are paid to the Greek state in case there is a profit from all this history, and it makes sense for the public, for the Greek people, to know certain things that are not said by this body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Koukoutsi. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, I will reply, not of course, to the specific body that makes the recycling, and I will reply in general and submit to you both documents and the General Secretariat of Public Incomes and the Greek Recycling Agency, which provide very detailed information on both the subject and the subject in general. I shall therefore reply in general to this particular station, without any attempts being made, and I shall avoid temptation to respond to it, as I have often found myself as Minister or other members of the government, both from this station and from some others. But since we are all equal to the law, I will render Caesar's Caesar Caesari. As far as recycling is concerned. If a broadcaster like this television station collects recycling devices and delivers them without collecting any fees, then it is not obliged to cut off a document. If - as is clear and the relevant document of the Auditor Directorate - the body collects electrical appliances or other items for recycling and delivers them with income, then they must be cut back. This is a real incident that will be ascertained in tax control. We do not have the information that this is happening. As far as this station is concerned, even the information we have from the Greek Recycling Agency is that they have worked with him for the management of these devices. So we do not have in this case the application of the provisions of Law No.4308/2014, which provides that in these matters of recycling, a document should be issued only when there is an income. The information we have on this issue is that there is no revenue, so there is no need to be any evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Koukoutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u17	Minister, you know, according to the statistics provided by SKAI, we are watching and for example some time ago it was written that only in Glyfada in one day was gathered around five tons, we are talking to tonnage now. On the other hand, according to the data published by SKAI itself, they exceed approximately 70 to 100 million if they were sold. We are now asking for immediate control. I mean, finally, we should know if there's a sale. Because your answer shows that there is no control there and as far as we know, there is a unique company, which is the final recipient of these devices, I think it is called EVAN, that I have that impression. I think, therefore, that you are in agreement with what we have said that there must be a check. You know - and I'm not taking their side, to God - there are some companies that collect and where we're going to get a fridge, a home appliance, we're going to leave it in the company, we'll weigh it, cut it down, we'll get some money as citizens, this company will give it up to this company - of course it'll be a profit, because it's a private company that seeks the profit - with the documents that are normal, as the law stipulates. It is good, then, to have a thorough check, to know exactly what is going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u19	You will receive a copy of the documents I will submit to you by the General Secretariat of Public Revenues and by the Greek Recycling Agency you mentioned before, which refers to this issue. First of all, I would like to make it clear that recycling is a very good thing, I wish we all did. I wish - first of all - that the Greek State would be recycling, because I, unfortunately, notice that even too many services throw paper, for example, in the trash. We all need to recycle, and let's start with Parliament's space, where I see too many photocopies, we're ruining too much paper. I think we should consider this at some point. But as far as the specific issue you have raised is concerned. The law is clear. If an entity collects recycling materials, electrical appliances, for example, and simply collects them and delivers them to another body without receiving a fee, then it is not obliged to cut off a documentary. If, as you mentioned, certain companies of electrical goods collect electrical appliances and then sell them for various reasons, such as spare parts, recycling, etc., then it must be cut to a documentary. On the matter of the control you mentioned, it is clear whether each Minister of Finance or each assistant has the option to choose who will be checked. These belong to a former Greece and it is not right to do so. But the law is clear. If anyone violates him, within the framework of the controls we have - because we also carry out such checks - it will of course be dealt with. On this particular subject, the image we have is that there is no price for delivery. That is, from the specific recycling station it makes, the image we have is that there is no income for this activity, so it is not obliged to cut off any documentary evidence. Of course the issue of tax controls is real, it is independent of us, it is determined by the independent authority, the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, and I repeat that it is not right for the political leadership to direct tax controls. These belong to a previous period, which, unfortunately, some television stations are reminiscent of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, too, Minister. The third, with number 1183/23-8-2016, a top-stage question of the first-stage question of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of National Defence, on the "unjustified release of the cosmos unit from Agios Kosmas" will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The fourth under number 1187/25-8-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the progress of projects for the development of the former airport of Greece, will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister, Mr. Tsakalotou abroad. The fifth question under number 1192/29-8-2016, first question by the Member of Parliament, Eotolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr.Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the exclusion from the associated aid, on the basis of an inappropriate limit of 20 kilograms of milk per animal, for thousands of farmers with intensified breeds, will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister Mr Apostolos abroad. The first under number 1189/29-8-2016 topical question of the second-cycle MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the establishment of a public IEK of adults with a view to specific education, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant ministers and will be redefined for discussion. The second under number 1194/29-8-2016, a topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy, George Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, regarding the second-rounding of the TEI Kilkis, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant ministers and will be redefined for discussion. The fourth question under number 1190/29-8-2016 of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the exclusion of thousands of children from the country's children's stations, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis, due to unsuccessful obligations. The second, number 1193/29-8-2016, timely question of the first cycle of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the need for projects to preserve and promote the medieval city of Rhodes, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr Baltas, due to the unsettled obligations. We move on to Question No 6101/10-6-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Kegeroglou to the Minister for Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the reduction of pensions by 60% for young retired farmers carrying out any activity after retirement. The question will be answered by the State Secretary, Mr. Petropoulos. Please, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with the law that resets insurance and pensions, Law No.4387/2016, provision is made for pensioners who carry on agricultural activity, who continue to produce after retirement, to have a 60% cut in pension. What has been clarified is that this is not about the old pensioners, namely those who were retired until this law was passed last May. My question is, if you are thinking of reviewing the matter as such, so as to exclude young pensioners, those who retire after May 1916, from this cut, if you would give them the opportunity to produce from a field that they have without the pension cut, if that is what you are determined to apply it and if so since when? However, the request is to be reviewed so that farmers are not included either old pensioners or young people in this ban. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Please, the Undersecretary, Mr. Petropoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Good month and good morning to everyone. Those who have acquaintances that have no other day of celebration are celebrating today and wishing them many years. Mr Kegeroglu, all you really say is matters, which we have examined. We have already answered previous questions. My answers are well known. And to Mr Jelloney, your colleague, I have extensively developed our thoughts. Already, by my letter to the OGA, pensions are issued up to 31-12-2016, without being subject to any restriction, since from 1-1-2017 the OGA is part of the OGA, to the EGF for pension benefits for the main pension, and therefore there is no question of them. There is, of course, for all pensioners, the maintenance of all rights, those who had them, as there is no effect of a proactive increase in their pensions from the old regime. Otherwise things happen after the application of the new rules applicable to all insured persons, as they fall within the new provisions and farmers, with a pension which, as far as the only part of the national is concerned, is about the average pension received by farmers so far. The average pension limit paid by the OGA today is around EUR 446. The national pension only amounts to EUR 384. Of course, this EUR 384 pension will be paid in a phased manner, and this is certainly a matter which is obviously taken into account in adjusting the pensions of farmers who are employed. However, I must say that farmers have the option of keeping their activity, otherwise they will have the choice to get their pensions. Like any insured person, who can have a kiosk and to get a pension, stops the activity, the same will apply to farmers. There are, however, transitional periods when things define them differently for farmers. We will do this in our next circular, which we will analyse in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u24	Thank you. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u25	I, Mr President, have not referred to the level of pensions. Minister, I think that in the division you also added the pensioners who take over under the old regime, that is before the OGA's additional and main insurance, to make the division and take out the four hundred so. But that is not the subject of today's debate. I want to say clearly to farmers what you said indirectly or even hidden that yes, it is true that from 1-1-17 the pension will be cut by 60%, since they continue to have a rural activity, regardless of the amount, even if they receive EUR 300 or if they make EUR 300 out of income, as the law has passed. But I want you to be clearly and clearly placed. Will you try to change that? Is that your goal or are you targeting what you said after the professional's cut, will the farmer be cut too? Is that your goal, or do you have the possibility, not to say a target? If you have this possibility, why can't you change the law? What is that transitional period, which will apply, so that farmers know clearly and clearly that they should transfer rights? You know, it cannot take one day to change the property or to transfer rights or to rent the fields, which is identical with the date it submits for retirement. It takes a time, set by the European Regulation on subsidies, for example. So I'd like a clearer placement: Firstly, if you are trying to renegotiate to change this provision. Secondly, if this provision does not change, in your view, for retired people from one point to another, when that point will be, and then what will be the transitional period, so that they know how the farmers themselves will go - producers who will retire from that point and then to know what they will do with their subsidies and their property, their production. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Petropoulou, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Kegeroglu, I'm not escaping. I also said that we are studying these issues. If I don't become more detailed, it's because these studies are under way. What you are saying, and I have mentioned it as matters that need special attention, to make an adjustment fair to all the insured. It is a fact, and I said it before my first speech, that farmers will get a scrupulous increase in national pensions. They won't take her in the first place. This is because they also do not give the amount at the outset of the contribution paid by all other insured persons. These differences existing in the law obviously need to be addressed by a corresponding and proportionate adjustment of these charges to the other insured persons. I can't be more specific. But you realise that what I am saying is a positive look at the question of farmers. Obviously we are dealing with it with interest to give the right solution so that there are no unjustified burdens on farmers. But, I have said before, it is a question of seeing the positive outlook for the development of agricultural production. It is not a bad thing for mothers and fathers of young children and girls in the countryside to transfer their fields. I mean, just this year, my son took responsibility for my father's land, which at ninety-two left us, and he finally started to grow serious. We need to see another perspective in agricultural production and our farmers who are obviously emotionally bound to the earth and are not easy to separate. I understand that. We must, however, give the positive dimension to this history of social security for farmers. We have incorporated farmers on an equal footing with all Greeks in the social security system. They do not yet know that they will have a significant increase in pensions, which only on the national side is about as much as the basic pension for most farmers, who have been paid up so far and rightly, as for other Greeks who are insured, the corresponding treatment for them. It makes sense, and I think there is no reason for farmers to be excluded from this perspective. But I said that there is a transition and in practice we will see what we need to see, adapted in a way that will bring about fair results. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote at first, articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Amendment of Law 4099/2012/A ^ 250 (incorporation into national legislation of Directive 2014/91/EU/L 257) and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 3 August 2016 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, on articles and amendments. The rapporteurs will be: From the point of view of SYRIZA Mr Vettas, from the point of view of the New Democracy, Mr. Stamatis, from the point of view of Golden Dawn special speaker Mr. Panayotaros, from the point of view of the Democratic Consensus of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Arvanitides, from the point of view of the party, Potami, Mr. Spyridon Lykoudi, from the point of view of the ANELs Mr. Kammenos and Mr. Kammenos. Parliamentary Representatives will be: of the SYRIZA Mr. Mantas, of the New Democracy Mr. Dendias, of the Golden Dawn Mr. Karakostas, of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Loverdos, of the KKE Mr. Karathanasopoulos, of the Potamios, of the Danelis, of Mr. Kokkalis and of the Association of Centres Mr. Karras. The rapporteurs have the floor for fifteen minutes of protology and seven and a half minutes of dentistry. The same applies to special speakers. Parliamentary Representatives have 12 minutes for protology, six minutes for dentology and three minutes for tritology. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Vettas, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, I will not need that much time. I think we have exhausted too many issues during the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are debating today the amendment of No 4099/2012, essentially the transposition into national legislation of Directive 2014/91. Ladies and gentlemen, during the debate on the bill at the beginning of the month I think we have had the opportunity, even at a very brief meeting, to analyse and aim at serious but essential problems and points of this bill. You will allow me to make a brief reference to the first part of the bill, which mainly contains technical elements, and then to refer to the second part, of course, which includes essential issues of the capital market, but also the introduction of new forms of financing, such as crowdfunding and participatory funding. In the first part, therefore, the new European legislation amends Directive 2009/65 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009, which includes action to coordinate all legislative and administrative provisions relating to certain collective investment undertakings in transferable securities, so as to take account of developments, of course, on the market, in particular on matters relating to the responsibility of depositary guards, the remuneration policy and the sanctions imposed by the Securities and Markets Committee when it finds infringements. This draft law, therefore, first of all, obliges public funds management companies and public investment companies to prepare and maintain policies of remuneration that are above all compatible with proper and effective risk management for all categories of personnel, whose professional activities of course have a substantial impact on the risk profile of collective investment undertakings in securities. The draft law introduces rules that define the policies of remuneration or remuneration of the staff of the financial sector as a whole, whether it is related to banks or insurance companies, investment companies or other fund management companies. So there is a reasonable level of pay in relation to the level of risk which each of these executives assumes, after of course, the self-determined adjustment - let me have the term - of recent years. This draft law also defines the duties and duties of legal persons that could act as custodians, as well as their responsibility in cases where the assets of the depositary are lost or in cases where the depositary itself is misinformed. Thirdly, the responsibilities of the Securities and Markets Committee are laid down as supervisory authority, as well as the sanctions which it can impose on either the AEDAC and AIMMKs, but also on depositaries in cases of breach of existing legislation. The second point in the bill introduces participatory funding, crowdfunding, a new way of raising funds from a large number of stakeholders, mainly via the Internet. It is true that today, living in an atmosphere of freezing bank lending and rejecting at the same time a very large number of business requests to finance their business plans by banks, an entrepreneur, a scientist, a self-employed person, can clearly address the NSRF 2014-2020 to finance an innovative idea, but this cannot cover and will not cover the entire range of business actions. The newly created and existing companies are therefore presented on an electronic platform to which the investment public has access. Clearly, in our country there are several legal obstacles so far for the functioning of the crowdfunding and in this draft law under Article 23, it is foreseen that a public offer may exceptionally be made, without requiring the drafting and publication of the prospectus provided for, however, that the conditions of the law are cumulative. It is certainly not an easy process, but it is an important tool, which could to some extent change the culture and behaviour of society towards the very entrepreneurship, but also the participation of society itself in it. The question raised by the rapporteur of the New Democracy I think has been answered, Mr Stamatis, concerning, of course, the motto of funding. Besides, the possibility of increasing the threshold can be changed by ministerial decision, so in future it may be easier to do so. The second point to which we must stand is Article 20, which introduces significant changes relating to the legal interest rate, with a view to strengthening entrepreneurship and boosting the Greek economy. And it is well known that with PHS1/2000 the maximum permitted extra-banking interest rate was set at 5.3%. However, this rate is for current data many times very low and does not allow capital to be raised. In order to ensure and allow businesses and, above all, small and medium-sized enterprises to raise capital on market terms on the basis of supply and demand rather than through an administrative framework, it is therefore necessary to exempt bonds from those granted by public offer or those granted by private way by the rule currently in force on the basis of a maximum legal rate. Article 27 also solves a major problem of one category of our compatriots, the Greek gypsies. This article now ensures access to the banking system. They are given this possibility, and since decisions of the Ministry of the Interior had already been taken, which had been recognised as holders of housing aid, i.e. holders of a housing loan now and had not been able to make the necessary requests to the credit institutions or pending their application. By this Article, and according to the General Accounting Office of the State, the account of L.128 of L.128 on the interest subsidy for loans, which will not exceed EUR 450,000, shall be charged. Article 24 of the same law, namely paragraphs 3 and 4, reduces respectively the limits on the required share capital of public limited companies from EUR 75 000 to EUR 40 000 and the limits on their own capital from EUR 37 500 to EUR 30 000. These are, of course, new levels depending on the size, but also on the scale of the business and activities of the companies and always sufficient in relation to the risks to which these companies are exposed. Article 22 refers to anonymous real estate investment companies and enables them to participate in another company without requiring the relationship between a parent and a subsidiary so that it is possible to jointly develop hotel real estate and complex tourist companies from non-resident companies. So the company can participate at least 25% in a company planning the development of real estate or real estate, at a minimum value of at least EUR 10 000. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill contains provisions that regulate in a positive way, but to some extent, the capital market, which means that the fight and effort to better regulate the capital market is always eternal. It therefore includes plans and tools for refinancing businesses and the economy. But let me say that over the years, not only the banking system has been lost, we have not only been behind in funding instruments. The big problem, or if you want one of the greatest problems of Greek entrepreneurship and production and by extension of the Greek economy, is that the policies implemented over the years have removed or even dissolved the culture of cooperation, co-investment and the possibility of quality growth, both economic and organically small and medium-sized enterprises in the country. Efforts are therefore being made to revive and revive this culture, because the economy is clearly and is not just money. Therefore, this effort includes the Government's actions to stabilise and shield the banking system, as well as the creation of tools such as the crowdfunding, which we are debating today, and the arrangements for correcting and improving the functioning of the capital market, such as the Participating Fund and its cooperation with the European Investment Fund, such as the creation of an investment bank and the new law, of course, on cooperatives in the primary sector. I think that's what we need to support and communicate in the business world in our country. I think that's gonna be our big offer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Vetta. Please, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Stamatis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, the first part of this draft law concerns the amendment of Law No 4099/2012 that we voted on, incorporating Directive 2009/65 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Currently, the national law of Directive 2014/91 is requested to be transposed with a substantial update of Law 4099/2012, following the experience gained in the Union by the application of the previous first Directive. We have no reason to refuse to vote on this bill in the first part, since it is essentially our law. The problem, however, lies in the government majority, because during the debate on the law, in 2012, there was a hard criticism of us and, after abomination, the New Democracy - the new Republic - of the coup d'état, in fact - PASOK - DIMAR - rejected this first directive. I read to you what SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Samoilis, said at that time: 'This draft law on collective investment organisations comes in line with central, neoliberal dogmas that flood the European Union in the first century. Secondly, it said below - '... it recommends the other side of the common currency, as we mean. And we mean the accumulation of profits through the insurmountable mobility of capital, the further abolition of restrictive regulations of this kind and the legal safeguard under specific activities of stock exchange capital, which are not subject to any kind of social recompense." And he concluded: "For these reasons SYRIZA will vote against it and the Greek people will overturn it in life." The political overthrow has come and you have come to the government. And today you are asking for the adoption of the same basic law, the one after abomination you rejected four years ago. I am making this reference for two reasons: firstly - and I have asked these questions in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs - you accept the correctness of the directive, the beneficialness of incorporating the directive into national law or - secondly - you are necessarily including it today and you are asking for it to be voted on, so is your proud negotiating tactic to the European Union going on? In the first case you must apologise for what you were saying at the time, maliciously against us. In the second case, I repeat, where is your proud negotiating tactic going when you vote law, which you really do not accept? I would have liked you to have accepted the correctness of this provision, because this means updating SYRIZA's own data, on the basis of current data, which is now facing situations as the government of the country and not the irresponsible opposition, which we have known over the past few years. The second reason is that on such practices, malicious practices, the electoral tactic of SYRIZA was based, which led him to two electoral victories without demanding a single apology. One with HISPIA, one with the invitation to the citizens not to pay taxes to "remove" us and with a thousand other promises, you managed and conquered power. Indicative of this tactic is that during the debate we had in the Committee on Economic Affairs I asked Mr Tsakalotos, who is missing today, but the government is sufficiently represented: 'What about the additional, fourth memorandum? When are you going to submit it to the House? The House must also be informed of its contents.' He told me that this was not the case, because the measures had been passed in May. That is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. There is the supplementary, fourth memorandum, which the Government has so far not submitted. I put it in English today in the House. However, the government's obligation to submit it translated into Greek and to inform the House - it is very important - is very important. [[At this point the Member, Mr Dimitrios Stamatis, presents the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Why not, ladies and gentlemen? For two reasons: the first is because it is revealed that the supplementary memorandum is the government's unreliability clause costing 1.5 billion and, secondly, the additional measures that the Government had to take following the agreement it had made at the time of signing the third memorandum. The total amount of measures completed thus reaches 9 billion. And within that, of course, includes the cut - as a budgetary measure - the surplus - which has been in operation for over a hundred years. The second reason is that in addition to the budgetary measures - Mr Tsakalots replied to me - there are other measures and commitments, the revelation of which the government is diligently trying to avoid, for good reasons. The question is: Are you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, are you not interested in teaching them? I understand that behind this hideout of the government, there is also an attempt to escape from a gruesome reality that comes, a secret that has to do with the Prime Minister's speech at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition in a few days' time. But this is where we have to say things by their name. To complete the first assessment, you must take measures, prerequisites, without being compulsory budgetary in nature, fifteen. I give you the fifteen prerequisites needed to disburse the second subset of the first dose. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Stamatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] And follow the rest of the items included in the supplementary memorandum. To make a course, then, we can see how things evolved: Last year the third memorandum was signed. Among these commitments was the obligation of lenders to give us 15 billion in June, provided that the government had made all the commitments. Since these commitments have not been implemented, we have not only been forced to take further measures amounting to 1.5 billion, but at the same time also to establish the scheme of instalments and sub-stations, with what this entails for the national economy. So you had to get 15 billion in June. You didn't get them. You got a piece of 7.5 billion. Now go get the second subset of 2.8 billion with the closure of the first review. The remaining 5 billion will be taken when the sects and conditions laid down in the additional fourth memorandum are met. That's why you hide it and don't present it to the House. In the meantime, because of this situation you have made an internal payment stop in order to have a pragmatic approach to budgetary objectives. And because of this measure, you have led to a deep recession in the economy. According to ELSTAT's updated report, for the second quarter the recession is 0.9% - it falls short of forecasts - and the estimate is that by the end of the year the recession in Greece will be 1%. And Greece will be the only country in Europe to be in recession this year. You have received a country with a positive growth rate, with surpluses, and you have led it to a state of failure to fulfil its obligations on the one hand and underdevelopment on the other. The new year will start at a negative rate of growth, with practically closed banks. I have told Mr Stournara, who was optimistic that from the second half of 2016 there would be a positive growth rate, but that at the same time we would also have closed the capital control regime, which remain. Of course, the fact that you took a measure for the abstracts who forgot to go once a week to get EUR 420 and give them the opportunity to take 840, is not called the lifting of capital controls. Under these conditions, how do you hope growth will progress in the next few months? Because of this underdevelopment, it is impossible for the government to benefit from what it hopes will benefit from the taxation it imposed by the measures it adopted in May, whether they concern direct and indirect taxation or insurance contributions. And if it can't happen - and all the evidence shows this course - then why won't the cuter come, Minister? As far as I am concerned, on the substance of this, on the issues of the economy, relating to the unreliable policy of the SYRIZA and as Opposition and as a government. The second part of the bill relates to regulation of market issues and new forms of financing, such as participatory funding. These arrangements are positive and we will vote on them. It is very good that all the institutional actors on the capital market, with their experience, have participated in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which, I imagine, ensure the correctness of these arrangements at the moment. I will focus particularly on the issue of exemption from the legal interest rate on bonds, because it was indeed extremely low and did not allow capital to be raised. Moreover, the precedent of the judiciary interest rate of 5.3% has been smashed roundly by a recent decision of the Ice Arena, against an appeal decision, as to the interest rates on the banks' consumer loans. So, from this point of view, this arrangement is compatible with our legal system. In addition, it is positive to lay down the provisions on the introduction of participatory funding beyond where it has so far been implemented, because there was indeed this institution, but it mainly concerned donations to cultural clubs, etc. Now he's entering the substance and it's a good provision. It is a source of raising funds for businesses - especially young businesses - which are weak under the suffocating conditions of the financial system to raise capital. Also positive is the reduction to EUR 40,000 of the share capital of anonymous investment brokering companies and the reduction to EUR 30 000 of their own funds. I'd like to stand on Article 27. We agree with the Roma regulation, because the deadlines must not be lost. Understanding the law or deadlines many times, when the beneficiary is still in charge, is relevant to the social conditions that exist in specific categories and to the extent to which the suffocating frameworks are perceived. Where, therefore, there are ministerial decisions, whether they have been approved by the banking institutions or not, it is right to extend this interest subsidy scheme for their homes. During the debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs, I raised two points: The first issue is why the block of participatory funding does not rise from 500,000 to 1,000 000. This is happening in many other European countries. Conditions change every day. I was told by the Minister that he was at his own discretion - that is, the Minister of Finance - to change it and do it 1,000 000. But I think that must be done soon. The second issue concerned the provision of further safeguards for individuals who are part of this financing at a distance. It's a new institution. The small investor - because we are talking about small investors - has no contact with the businessman himself. It is based on the assurances of the law and of the competent state bodies, but, anyway, it has one difficulty until it does. I believe that providing more collateral would make it easier to lift this suspension of approach to this new institution of people who do not have anything to do with the capital market. For example, I mention their right to withdraw from this contract within 15 days. That would cause psychological stimuli. I think the Minister should see it, as promised me, because it would facilitate the implementation of this institution. After that, as you can see, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting for the bill, with the comments I have made to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u33	Thank you. Mr. Kammenos, special speaker of the Independent Greeks for 15 minutes. We are changing the order of the parties, because Mr Kammenos is a member of the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your understanding. I have the Vice-President of the Committee of Inquiry, which started at 10.30 p.m. Today we are debating the amendment of Law 4099/2012 and the transposition of the directive into Greek legislation. This directive is very important. I won't be long. Two legs is my speech. A short word on the important elements of this integration and a second on the amendments we have tabled, which have to do with the real economy, the daily life of the Greek citizen and, if you like, the facilitation that we believe should exist in the procedures and addresses of the ministries, so that we can bring more revenue directly to the public, because I believe that this is also the purpose of this government. One of the most important points of the bill is the article that removes charges, stamps and charges for third parties, EBRD. EBRD, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which has already given its full support and showed its confidence in the Government of Independent Greeks and SYRIZA, must continue to provide loans and participate in capital increases or anything else it does in Greece. Its loans are high-value, 100,000, 200,000, 300,000, and the cost of super-thirds was unbearable and it also made these loans uncompetitive or no company would sign up to a cost of more than 3%, beyond the interest rate, to the EBRD loan. It is very important to remove these charges, because loans are now becoming competitive. The Greek Government - I think you can understand - and the Greek economy, regardless of its colour and political attitude, needs the certification and stamp of the Greek economy, which is being borrowed, so seeing no risk to our loans to our market. It's simple what I'm saying and we need to keep going that way. A second very important part, which has been raised by previous Members, is participatory funding, crowdfunding. It's a very important development tool. Of course the regulatory frameworks must also be in - legal, fiscal and audit frameworks - because if we see what is going on abroad, it is a great way of avoiding foreign errors, errors in concealing the route of money or the use of money, or how much money they have gathered, for what purpose they have gathered and whether the purpose has been served or not. All of this should be checked by our government, to check the full process of crowdfunding from alpha to omega. With regard to intangible securities, as I said in my brief introduction to the Committee on Economics, it is very important to know that in 2017, we will have MiFID II, namely Market and Financial Instruments Directive, which will enter into force. It's about code of conduct. It is about a regulatory framework on the communication process and how intangible securities will be managed between those who offer them and sell them in relation to those who are potential investors or buyers of these securities. We must now, because there is technical adequacy at the Ministry - I am sure and I know - start the process so that, when MiFID comes to Greece next year, we can be ready and be ahead so that we do not start the process at that time, because we will go back to very important financial instruments. In this part is - I say some technical terms - and the High - Frequency Trading which has huge problems. The "regularyframework" of the year is coming. It is now good to predict and build the procedures so that proactively, i.e. with work before the directive in Greece comes, we can be ahead of developments so that we do not run behind them. Also very important is the insurance and reinstatement of investments. It's in those pieces that's coming. It is important that they enter the Greek context. You will allow me to say that we have had the problem - one example I will say - of loans in a Swiss franc. Many banks or organisations that gave these loans, had secured and replaced their loans on the exchange risk or had hedging on anything else, but this agreement never went through with any borrowers. So the borrower took all the risk. The bank had secured its risk and did not transfer this security to the borrower. These are now resolved at European level. And I'm sure our government will do the same to protect the consumer, the investor, anyone who gets into this process to invest or put his money on those securities. In conclusion, I would like to say, in order to be clear, and as rapporteur, that the Independent Greeks are voting for and we support, in an article and in its entirety, the bill and the incorporation into Greek legislation. I would like to refer to the two amendments I have tabled. They're extremely important. One amendment has to do with ENVY in the building cooperatives we are seeing these days. It is tragic for this country to have built up post-war building cooperatives, to have given shares in real estate dividends throughout Greece, which, while the purpose was, with the encouragement of the state, to build the land, to have the land and possession and to invest and to build the Christian after the war, we still have them captives. And the absurdity of what is it? That, with the invention of HNPH by Mr Venizelos, I should like to remind you that he put him in PPC and we had bracelets, that we do not forget them here that we are with HNPH now, and we criticise the government for the HNPH and the fairest deal it has done this year - HNPH goes to the president of the cooperative. There is 200,000 euros, 300,000 euros, 400,000 euros, 500,000 euros, because you imagine that these plots and the shares of cooperatives are huge, because it is for tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of acres, and it goes unjustly to the President. What's the problem? First, he'll never be paid. Second, we can't put the president in jail because it's illegal. They're not his land. If they were his, he'd pay for it. They're not his. The state at the moment must find a way, not to illegally and to have an ally of its citizens and not an enemy. Plus, with the legitimisation of proportionality, as I propose and will read it - it has a simple wording - that the dividends pay HISVA proportionately, we give the State the opportunity to have much more revenue. I would venture to say twice as much of what the Secretariat-General for Public Revenue and the Ministry of Finance already sends to the chairman of the cooperatives. And to be specific, I read: ‘In paragraph 2 of Article 2 of Law 4223/2013, the following indent is added: ‘l) for the property of the building cooperatives, their members by a percentage of their participation in them’. What's simpler? Members at the rate of participation in the cooperative shall pay the ENPI. And it is also the incentive to get a legality so that they can build to get growth and the state to recover. We must not forget that the state must collect, it must not just monitor with binoculars. And secondly, I read it: 'for the real estate of the building cooperatives, their members in the percentage of their participation in them'. I put it in the Minutes, although the amendment has been tabled. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would ask the Government to see it very seriously and all my fellow Members - of course we are not many here today - because they are also the rapporteurs of all the parties, to support the amendment. My arguments are simple. No further documentation is needed. We should now lighten this world, these people, and enable the economy to get started, as long as HNVIA is legitimised by every owner, so it is accountable for its shares, to go to build and build its real estate. The second part relates to L.4337/2015 and to the provisions of Article 7 which deal with cases which have not been finalised and relate to false, virtual and other cases, where, because the decisions, the State and the services of the State are not finalised, they are unable to collect or regulate any debt. This amendment was tabled because two accounting offices and more than six or seven beneficiaries who had the money to regulate and cannot afford the state to put them on the table and get the money, because there is no legislation. The case hasn't been finalised. One cannot make the decision to place the debtor, whose debtor has been assured and whose debt has become due and the state cannot recover. So we are making some suggestions, the relevant scriptures of which you will allow me to read quickly, as I have written in the explanatory statement. Excuse me for two minutes. I would like to ask the rapporteurs' sensitivity to study and support this amendment, because it is for the sake of the economy, so that we can go and collect money and make it easier for the Services. In Article 7(2) of Law No4357/2015 we propose the following amendment: At the end of the first subparagraph we propose adding a paragraph: ‘As at the time the present paragraph had already been debated, but no decision of the competent court had yet been taken or a judicial decision had been adopted, but it had not been notified to the person concerned. Cases pending shall, in any event, be understood as meaning all cases in which no irrevocable judgment has been given at the time the present case.’ At the end of the first subparagraph, the paragraph shall be added: ‘In any other case, in the said declaration of acceptance, the applicant shall waive the right to exercise any procedural or extrajudicial action or aid against any decision or decision adopted. Any judgments given or given in proceedings pending in respect of which the taxpayer is subject to these provisions shall not give rise to any obligation to comply with the tax authority, which shall be abolished.’ In Article 7(4), subparagraph (b) we add: ‘At the time the present case was already discussed, but no decision of the competent court had yet been taken or a judicial decision had been taken but had not been notified to the party concerned. Cases pending shall, in any event, be understood as meaning all cases in which no irrevocable judgment has been given at the time the present case.’ Finally, paragraph (b) is added: ‘In any other case, in the declaration of acceptance, the applicant shall waive the right to exercise any procedural or extrajudicial action or aid against any decision or decision adopted’. What's going on here? In forty-eight hours, when no irrevocable decision has been made or has not been notified, and as long as the debtor wants to pay and comes to the tax office, you confirm the debt and he comes in directly to any arrangement there is, ten, twelve, twenty or a hundred instalments and collects the public. We are doing this because if the competent bodies and the directors are prevented from encroaching on the internal procedure at the Ministry, and we are waiting for the decision - you know that, and you guys are better off than me - the state is not collecting it. The official is captured in a decision, the citizen is captured - or the company - who wants to pay and be okay with his tax obligations and cannot pay because there is an empty or ambiguity of the law. I am sure that with this amendment - I have discussed it with too many experts - we will facilitate the process. It's just to facilitate the process. Nothing else. We're doing it to collect the public. I give you the document with the above-mentioned proposals for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have no other comment to make. I also heard Mr Stamatis' suggestion in relation to Greece's finances. I think too much has been said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Ilias Panagiotaros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, to comment on something that the previous speaker said about the ENPI and the difficulties that exist in various social groups, I would say that the best way would be to apply what you said in an election on the abolition of the ENPI and on which you were elected by SYRIZA and you in the previous elections. Of course, you did this extra gargard and instead of today a large part of the Greek people will pay an increased EVIA compared to last year. Before I begin, I cannot comment on this laughter that we saw yesterday from some organisations, which we all know now where they are financed, taking a demonstration outside this House about the bourgeoisie and the bourgeoisie in our country. They are the same organisations, of course, which, while defending the bourgeoisie and the bourgeoisie, defend gay parade, they are again in favour of them, from the same funder, Soros. We would suggest them once to put together the bourgeois and bourgeoisie and those who participate in gay parade, since they are both financed by the same funder, to parade together, to see what has to be done. As for this bill, which we are discussing today, it is a draft technical, economic and political bill, which, in general terms, we could say that it has nothing to do with the real economy and the primary sector, which they and they alone could bring growth to our homeland, and how much more so with the lack of immunity and impunity of the financial institutions of the Greek people. In recent years in our country we have seen the Greek people go bankrupt every day more and more, while financial institutions have been bankrupt many times, constantly refinanced by the Greek people, who are lending on unpleasant terms in order to keep them alive. We heard the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr. Stamatis, condemning SYRIZA who did not vote at the time, but now voting for them and saying that "thankfully, you came with us." We thank them both, because this will prove to be a great deal that the policies of both previous and present policies will lead our country with mathematical accuracy to the disaster. As for what we heard about the New Democracy in 2014, before the elections, the country was coming out on the markets, there was growth, there was no recession, and all of that, it seems to sound ridiculous, because if you look at the figures and the real indicators of the economy, it shows exactly the opposite. So this candy was called it, and then the New Democracy and of course it was voted off on bazaars and branches. He ate "black" four times at a time, and if he keeps up with this tactic, he will continue to eat "black", no matter how bad SYRIZA is doing, who takes them tragically and has absolutely no future in this place. We have also said about the banks, which are the main responsible for our country's economy. That draft law, by this Directive, amends the provisions of a previous Directive of the European Union in order to take account of market developments, the responsibility of depositarys and the penalties that the Securities Committee may impose in cases where there is an infringing behaviour on the part of the stakeholders. We remember what was happening in the past, where no one was finally punished on the substance. In particular, Part One lays down the obligation of public limited liability companies to manage mutual funds and public limited liability companies to establish and maintain for the categories of personnel whose professional activities have a substantial impact on the risk profile of UCITS managing, policies and practices consistent with sound risk management. Secondly, additional rules are laid down concerning the work and duties of depositarys. Legal persons who may act as custodians shall be designated and the responsibility of depositary guards shall be clarified in cases of poor performance of supervision or loss of assets of UCITS. Third, the responsibilities and powers of the Securities and Markets Committee, which takes the role of the AEDAC Supervisory Authority and falls within the Ministry of Finance, are defined. Article 2 provides that the term 'confidential depositary' is replaced by the term 'confidential depositary' so that, with the exception of a credit institution, a bank based in Greece or another Member State, or branches in Greece, which existed in the legislation in force, the addition of investment firms that have the appropriate infrastructure to carry out this task. The term ‘administrative body’ is also inserted in order to identify the persons responsible for the legal persons in such a way as to be consistent with the conditions in force in other Member States. It is clear that with the opening of these concepts and the possibility of providing custody of institutions other than credit institutions, not only does the activity of the Securities Committee less controlled, but on the contrary creates an insecurity and corporate liability regime. It is impossible to seek from the investor, i.e., the small investor from whom he will raise or raise some money. The latter is neither indirectly traded with a banking institution that knows, but with a "legal entity" - within many introductory forms - which has its head office abroad and is represented in Greece by a branch and by officials with zero personal responsibility. Article 3 refers to the remuneration policies and practices of AEDRs with the wish not to encourage the taking-up of risks incompatible with the risk profile, the UCITS' regulations or instruments of incorporation. It's just a wish - God help me, that is! - which, of course, neither obliges nor creates a legal obligation for those involved in the relevant market, in particular the ordinary victims, the small shareholders. It is stated that the depositary is required to ensure the monitoring of the UCITS cash flows, not to reuse the assets it holds and various other, given what we have mentioned about the widening of the depositary's concept. Article 4(3) provides that the definition of a depositary is to be demonstrated by a written contract which provides, inter alia, for the flow of the information deemed necessary in order for the depositary to perform its functions for the UCITS. From this point one can see very easily and understand the importance of the depositary, who, by controlling the flow of information, determines on the substance the shareholder's information, and its level of information about its investment, is a key point for its further claims. The depositary shall also ensure appropriate monitoring of UCITS cash flows and in particular funds paid by unit-holders at the time of the application. It is true that in Article 5(4), the depositary may exceptionally assign the custody tasks to a third-country entity that does not fulfil the conditions provided that it is required by the legislation of the third country, irrespective of any duty to inform the shareholder, it is obvious that it leads to complete irresponsibility of such entities, depositaries, and even under the conditions of complete legal vagueness of each country and the rights of those investors in those schemes. The logic of the pre-text only is reinforced by the spirit of the provisions and other articles, such as Article 10, which refer to investors under conditions and, in general and unnecessarily to the website for the alleged details of their placement. Article 11(2) also expressly refers for the first time to the authorising officer responsible for disclosing infringements of Article 93 of Law No 4099/2012, which does not refer to any major legal interest. It is well known that in Greek law the law only applies to the prosecution order or court order and only when it comes to discerning important crimes, i.e. crimes. The importance of the provision is to ensure the highest legal good of transaction safety when it has already violated it with other provisions. Nor is it permissible for the Greek legal system nor can it be introduced in the form of the adoption of this Directive. Article 20 regulates that the loan granted by way of private placement to special investors may be freely agreed and that the restrictions of Law 293 on the ceiling of the jurisprudence rate do not apply there. This suspected exemption cannot be tolerated as the trading limits of the weak party in such contracts are zero. Therefore, the possibility of violating the will of the parties, as defined by law, is very likely. The second part of the bill establishes new forms of funding, such as participatory funding, crowd funding, English crowdfunding. According to the explanatory statement, crowdfunding, public funding, participatory funding, is a way of raising funds from a large number of stakeholders mainly via the Internet. Initially, the crowdfunding was linked to the financing of various public works or to the financing of forms of art. Recently, however, it has also emerged as a method of raising capital for newly-innovated and innovative companies or other commercial operations. At this point, I would also like to make a note on the various start-ups, the innovative companies, the start-up tabs, which, while starting in Greece, are seeing day after day difficult their future, thus closing or leaving abroad. Crowdfunding is an alternative form of fundraising from a large number of stakeholders mainly via the Internet and is very popular abroad. Crowdfunding usually concerns cases of microfinance from EUR 5 to EUR 50,000 and is not limited to business ideas. It is important to say that crowdfunding is but it can also be a valuable tool for funding and notable non-governmental organisations. It is another way of getting these international domestic fraudulent money from ordinary people who can fool about the purposes of these non-governmental organisations. In particular, crowdfunding is a provision of investment services for which authorisation is required by the Securities Committee, while raising capital through it constitutes an invitation to the public to invest, for which prior publication of a prospectus or an information bulletin is required, which should also be approved by the Securities Committee. There should therefore be a arrangement whereby the association through a platform of investment interest on the one hand and the needs of companies to find shareholders on the other hand will not be subject to the above strict legal framework. This would give a significant boost to the survival of newly created small and medium-sized enterprises, necessary for the future of the Greek economy. The purpose of the income tax on legal persons and entities, portfolio investment companies and UCITS after the new multiplier. By Circular 1044/2015, the General Secretariat of Public Revenue provided clarifications on the subject matter of income tax to legal persons and entities. As regards portfolio investment companies and UCITS established in the national or other Member States of the European Union, the circular states: A new taxly toxic reality has now been established for the purchase of collective investment in Greece. Following the vote on the multi-brand plan which is increasing to unprecedented, for the European market, levels of the capitalisation factor of UCITS, collective investment organisations in transferable securities and, indeed, their total assets. The Government expects an increase of EUR 33,000,000 in revenue from this increase, an objective which is considered extremely ambitious by the executives of the area, because this measure is sure to lead to the reduction in the total of the branch of public limited companies in the management of funds, public limited companies in the portfolio investment company and public limited companies in real estate. In fact, managers of the site feel certain that the use of foreign schemes for fund management companies will gradually begin, while private investors will turn to foreign, foreign and non-resident companies that have an almost zero tax. Reimbursements to the IACS are already being examined in order to reduce the total assets. With these measures, we want to expel the Greek small and medium-sized investors from Greece and lead them to the mutual funds of foreign companies that have no tax at all and essentially the Greek capital to finance the development of other countries. If Greek funds management companies close, who will finance start up companies, and who will buy the bonds of the Greek companies when they look for cheaper funding? I would add that in the case of funds, this is a big damage to nothing. It is exclusively the originality of Greece to tax, not the profitability and goodwill, but the assets of the investment companies. The 750% increase in the taxation of ADI creates a major comparative disadvantage, compared with the AIPs of other European countries, thus significantly reducing their competitiveness. It is obvious that the creation of such counter-motorisations strengthens the anti-investment climate and makes it extremely difficult to attract new investors. Furthermore, even if the incorporation into the Greek legal order of the directive is supposed to be compulsory, the public law provisions of our legal system should not be circumvented by that reason, nor should the protection of the investor by the false argument of European economic integration, a European economic integration, which we will not see in the meantime, be suspended by the European Union. We are voting against this bill in principle and on articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Panayotare. The rapporteur for the PASOK Democrat Association has the floor, Mr Arvanitides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to wish the new Parliamentary Session, which is just beginning to be a constructive summit, with real dialogue between the political forces and positive proposals. Let us not forget that our citizens have sent us here to resolve the accumulated problems of Greek society and not to take the lead in pointless controversy and controversy. It may be that August, ladies and gentlemen, has left, however, the problems remain. The farce with the auctioning of television licences and ELSTAT's case may have pulled the lights of publicity out of the real problems for a while, but the government will soon be faced with its policy. A policy which she herself has drawn up and which she is implementing. A policy that from the programme of Thessaloniki and the third pension, 751 euros basic salary, reached the piles, for those who lost EKT, for thousands of owners, for thirty-sixteen thousand children who will be left out of the children's stations this year, for the recession and for the reduced revenues in tourism, which make the cutter more threatening than ever. And these, colleagues, are your choices, exclusively yours. The period of grace, which is always the fault of someone else, has passed away unreturned. It is time for you to deal with yourself and everyday life, which is, of course, irreversible, as the citizens' judgment will be, whenever you choose to give them the floor. Mr Minister, I have told you in committee and I will repeat this today, this bill is in the positive direction and we will vote on it. The problem, of course, is that there is no general plan on which all these policies are articulated and result. I invited you to give us concrete information on what, at last, you expect the regulations and any arrangements that we are voting on and we will vote on today. You don't know that. No one knows. No one is bothering to bring specific data to the House, to tell us what the objective is, what the cue we are putting, for example, is for risk capital, so that we know at the end of the effort we have reached and where the next one will catch. Instead of operating with a plan, you go with the logic'seeing and doing', the logic 'take some of you all'. The result is that you will continue to burn and waste the valuable and minimal resources that the Greek economy has, in failures and wrong choices. Minister, the country cannot withstand any other mistakes and, above all, it cannot withstand any other half-measures. We must set national objectives and there must be a social and political agreement on them. The development plan must be Greek property and come to the House immediately. We must learn to measure the result and put the cucumber where we reach it and not sell the seaweeds to the people for silk ribbons, and then we say 'I'm sorry, we have unfortunately been deceitful'. If you don't get serious, the country will be on the sidelines of history. For a year and a half we have been waiting for Mr Stathakis to present the development strategy. Since March we have heard that it will be ready from day to day, but we still have nothing concrete but wishfulness in front of us. Do you have any other priorities? Do you think there are more important things you need to deal with? Do you have a secret agenda? Will you finally talk about the truck or will you continue making fun of the world? And ultimately, if you don't have any proposals, take advantage of ours. We have been talking for a long time about a national line, based on a new relationship between a state - a society - market. We have set timely concrete proposals for adequate support for the economy, for the country's productive reconstruction, for small and medium-sized enterprises, for the redefinition of the primary surplus target, for speeding up the agreement, for the restructuring and reduction of public debt. Ladies and gentlemen, we have, of course, a European directive and a number of additional provisions on the capital market and the financing of businesses, which of course are in a positive direction. As I said before, the problem is that there is no overall plan on which these policies are articulated. Let us know, for example, that crowdfunding will be a funding tool for so many businesses, in so many sectors, which will contribute both to the growth of GDP and create so many jobs. We are coming here to vote for bills, to give access to financial instruments, and then, unfortunately, we all do our crosses to go well, without being targeted, without being coughed to a certain level, so that we can finally see what these policies have achieved. We are talking about the capital market with the Stock Exchange consistently below the six hundred units, at 1990 prices, having lost almost half of value since the end of 2014 and after February 2016 fell to the lowest level of the last twenty-seven years. We are talking about foreign investments with foreign-owned portfolio investments returning in 2015 to a negative sign, while in 2014 they had increased for the first time since 2009. It is therefore good that we are discussing bills like today. We must not forget, however, that without a comprehensive plan, we are doing half the jobs at a time when we urgently have to do what goes through our hand to protect and strengthen the national economy. I now come to the essence of the bill. Cases such as the bankruptcy of LEHMAN BROTHERS in 2008 showed us in the clearest way that the institutional protection framework that exists since 1985 is not sufficient to address the current risks. It is therefore good that the European Union, even too late, takes measures to protect investors and harmonises the level of protection in all its Member States. I was recently reading an essay of Stephen Hawking on 'Guardian' calling on us to review our attitude to money and wealth. The conclusion reached is extremely interesting. He tells us not much or much that if we continue to believe that money is above all, then humankind will disappear from his greed. I therefore consider Article 3 to be extremely important in trying to reduce the degree of correlation between the remuneration of managers taking investment decisions and the level of risk. In other words, it is not easy for volunteers to invest in high-risk products without the necessary guarantees, just to ensure for themselves a high level of pay. It is, in my opinion, a measure that will protect not only investors and the economy but also the serious professionals in the sector who are doing their job well and responsibly. We must send a clear message that there is no room for speculative behaviour in Greece and the European Union. That is why the arrangements for depositaries and the increased protection framework and the forecasts for the encouragement of complaints by officials are extremely important when they perceive illegal behaviour. I would like to close my place with the arrangements for participatory funding, which is known to all crowdfunding. First of all, it is totally inappropriate to bring in an article regardless of each other. For example, in Article 24(3), the threshold for ESI Funds equity may be changed by ministerial decision. We believe that regulation adopted by law should be amended by law. I hope you'll fix it. Now I'm actually coming to the point. The biggest problem facing small and medium-sized enterprises in our country today is limited access to finance and have high borrowing costs. According to a survey by the European Central Bank carried out last spring, in our country almost one out of three small and medium-sized enterprises has no access to funding. In fact, unlike the other Eurozone countries, companies in Greece, Ireland and Finland have reported an increase in borrowing rates. And here we have to make something clear. Is the crowdfunding going to solve the problem of the financing of Greek companies? Obviously not. New financial instruments are useful. They are, however, limited in scope and are mainly linked to specific projects and not to the overall investment plan of an undertaking. It is therefore obvious that they can make a significant contribution as much as the banking system cannot support the market and the real economy. But it is not easy to have a decisive effect on the economy. I'm ending up with an observation and a proposal. In Article 17, you should explain to us why the time period for compliance reaches one and a half years, namely until 18 March 2018. Finally, on the basis of Article 27 on interest subsidy for Greek Roma housing loans, I would like to return for the third time, Minister, an earlier proposal. I have tabled a question to you since February and, unfortunately, you have not bothered to answer me. I hope you do it today. It is known that the Greek banks offer the possibility of borrowing for the construction or completion of a first home with a housing loan subsidised by the Greek State under specific conditions. It has been noted that several borrowers in previous years, not knowing that possibility, did not make use of the subsidised interest rate, resulting in significant margins of relief, provided that the Government decides to allow them to make use of their right retroactively. If there is such a possibility, you can do so, naturally in the context of the smooth operation of the banking system and the commitments made by the country. So do it, it'll relieve a lot of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Arvanitidis. We shall proceed to the next rapporteur, Mr Lykoudi, from Potami. You have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the draft law of the Ministry of Finance, which amends Law 4099/2012 and incorporates the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council in the first part, while in the second part various matters of the Ministry's competence are regulated. This is a bill regulating financial sector problems, which are globally encountered in market economies. Like, for example, the issue of the remuneration of directors of companies in the sector, which, in theory and in practical terms, should go hand in hand with the classification and risk management. That is not to say, uncontrollable and not to create incentives for a short-term horizon. The global economic crisis, triggered by the massive bankruptcy of LEHMAN BROTHERS in the autumn of 2008, had one of its main causes for irresponsible trading in financial products and various imaginable derivatives of doubtful value and high risk and, more generally, for not to go into any known detail, the lack of strict regulatory and restrictive rules for the protection of investors, their property property as well as their residence with many victims. Therefore, mitigating risks in the financial sector, strengthening the supervisory role of the capital market and its legislative powers and other relevant issues are not examples in the right direction. As also important are the provisions of Part Two, which concern, among other things, forms of non-banking participatory funding, which creates a more favourable framework for newly created, newly created and innovative enterprises which, in particular, can only come from small and medium-sized enterprises. The framework for raising capital can only facilitate this sector. Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague, George Amyras, as a special speaker, stood at a number of critical issues in the bill and made a number of comments, adopting a positive attitude, which I share. We are voting in favour of the bill. There is therefore no point in extending more detailed points here. From the point of view of legal excellence, I would say that we should take into account - if it has not already been done, I think it has been done - the comments contained in the six-page report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament. I would, however, like to make a few points and allow me the general character, which I believe is relevant to the issues that concern us. With regard to the internal dimension, it is clear that any fragmentary measures, even positive, will not bring spring to the winter economy, which is still in recession, under the responsibility of the government now. Inability at will of taxes is evident, tax revenues are dangerously lag, uncovered cheques are increasing, so are due. The total debt to the funds goes beyond EUR 25 billion, unemployment and especially young people, remains at high levels, exports are falling, deposits remain stable. Capital controls remain, the Stock Exchange is completely devalued, the investments are non-existent. I wonder if there's a sign of questioning these elements of this image. I think we all have an admissibility. Confidence has not come back and will not come back unless we have radical areas and the reorientation of our economic policy. Because the economy is in a coma and its resurrection did not come in Easter, as the Prime Minister had promised. The government, of course, is trying to present a good-looking picture to the citizens. But I have the impression that this image only believes it. It resorts to new myths and that's not good at all. In the so-called falsification of statistics, in the complex, while methodically building a new strand, riding free information, eroding the rule of law, partitioning the state and there is an unspeakable propaganda in a direction that is quite different from the real picture we have in front of us today. However, even if we accept the fact that the economy will at some point be present - why can't it be done otherwise, there is a legacy of history - some greedy signs of stabilisation or of grief growth, why - my goodness - we should have lost so long? Why should we start today from a lower base than in 2014? Why should another 5% - 6% of GDP be lost? One will tell me "though soon the government is trying to adjust its policy to data and to realisticise its own effort". I hope so, but I don't hope so, and you know why? Because a very large part of the members, executives and supporters of this government, SYRIZA, even creeps out the word 'capital market' of this leading institution of capitalism, which, however, is now suddenly coming to adopt and regulate in accordance with the Community directive. Ladies and gentlemen, the government does not have a structured plan, unfortunately. And the deadlocks continue, society is poor, anchored and squeezed under the crack of the new ruthier of the other third memorial. Instead of growth, impoverishment is equated and the country is sinking even further into the decline. The question is until when. And that has nothing to do with any kind of opposition. I think 'until when' is a question for all of us and at some point we all have to answer it. As far as the international dimension is concerned, I would like to stress the self-evident point that the markets do not have a regulatory mechanism on their own. By their very nature they do not regulate themselves. The state needs to be involved in this, so that limits and rules are laid down, so that profitability is not unaltered and aerialised, but rather directed towards investment, financing the real economy, the creation of real and well-paid jobs, the financing of the social state, the legal dividend, the protection of the weak layers and so many others. However, ladies and gentlemen, we are well aware that individual states are powerless to the forces of the world market, particularly at the present stage of the domination of these principles, of globalisation. In global problems, responses and solutions can only be global. To limit myself to the very well-known example of the financial transaction tax, the so-called Tobin tax, it is clear that it will not have any effectiveness if it is not agreed globally. And here I must mention Mrs Annan Podima, Vice-President of the previous European Parliament, who supported eleven Member States of the European Union, including our country, our country. I would also like to highlight the statement by the German Minister for Finance in favour of this tax worldwide. Relevant tax issues, as they have recently emerged with the European Commission's fine of EUR 13 billion in Apple, simply show that only international cooperation and in this particular case the European Union can effectively oppose the validity of capital. That is why those who, either by conviction or by various ideological and political fetishes or by following a bad policy, undermine the European orientation of the country, invoke some imaginary false pride in self-isolation with the sole support of some mythical virtues of the genus and their related services, offer flawless services in our country. And let them dare not move us, these circles with their fingers, at least to us. There are many stitches for their fur, which they themselves have already completely burned. Let me remind you - and I will not repeat it - that when the country came to the edge of the cliff last summer, only the responsible national and patriotic attitudes of the parties of Democratic Opposition saved the country from destruction by safeguarding its European orbit and European orientation, since then the SYRIZA - ANEL had lost the parliamentary majority. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I strongly support our country's persistence, presence and functioning in the European Union, despite the obvious problems that the European Union has and which today are tempting it, but also the effort that we all have to make as a whole, as a society and a nation, to remain in its hard core by regaining our financial autonomy, contributing to its greater economic and political union, recognizing dangerous centrifuges, which, unfortunately, fuels right-wing and left-wing ethnicism. And that is an additional reason why I regard as the foundation of the country's political stability and good governance, as a pragmatic institution of hope and prospect in the midst of many discrepancies the creation of a large democratic reformist and progressive party, the culmination of the modern European centre-left as a guarantee of such a course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u41	We are going with the next special speaker of the Centroon Union, Mr Cavalella.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. As is already known from the work of the committee before the summer holiday season, we have voted in favour of this bill - we have, of course, had some objections - which is, in many cases, harmonisation in the standards of Community legislation. All parties to the democratic European arch said they would vote in favour of the bill, which, among other things, demonstrates that co-operation at legislative level is a prerequisite for democracy and does not make one another's domicile. I stress this because we have been accused lately. There is a propaganda, I could say, some of the circles of opposition, which has identified legislative cooperation with party cooperation. Therefore, the opposition operates in old-fashioned sense. As in this particular case that New Democracy agrees with SYRIZA in this bill, according to the accusations against us, it could be - it is, of course - a nomicile of SYRIZA, which is not the case. This populism and demagogy must be stopped so that democracy can work, that the country enters a new orbit geared to the logic, the science, the more efficient cooperation of democratic forces. Today's draft law is divided into two parts. The first concerns the compulsory amendment of Law 4099 following Directive 2009/65. Adaptation to Directive 2014/91 is now required. On the basis of experience, therefore, following practical implementation to facilitate the capital market and the movement of capital, as well as the safeguarding of investors, this amendment applies. SYRIZA had condemned the present plan that he brings today when he was opposition. The second part deals with the regulation of the capital market. We endorse, of course, the exception to the judiciary interest rate, which previously cancelled investment efforts or, at least, created problems. I would remind you of the decision taken by the Ice Bay, which lifts the inviolability of the judiciary interest rate of 5.3%. Of course, this Decision refers to banking services such as cards and consumer loans, but it is also necessarily extended to the practice of the judiciary interest rate. We in the Central Association are defending development, innovation and new ideas and we are positive. From this bill the main element which has left us positive is the legislative normalisation, which aims to facilitate the development of the so-called crowdfunding. Several new businesses, with hopeful prospects, who want immediate expansion assistance, are looking for resources outside banking systems. In this way, anyone who wants to be private can be financially involved by financing this effort. This process is done through a website and makes everyone's lives easier and more efficient. However, although this type of funding is necessary because of the failures of the banks to meet so many requests and needs that have arisen, this type of funding, as usual, is inconsistent with legal incompatibles. This requires the mature attitude of the legislator, because this type of financing is about investment services. On the one hand, the Securities Committee is suddenly involved, and on the other hand, because it invites the public to invest, an information bulletin is required in advance. It is therefore necessary, in our view, to decommit the investment interest platform with applicants for financial or other assistance, to find practical shareholders for the benefit of the startup of a argument, since the government, because of other types of investors it cannot present, has the last hope that our young people, young entrepreneurs with innovative ideas, who are, however, economically unable to support their project. Of course, the legislative provisions may still need to be simplified, but positive steps are being taken towards removing obstacles, which have until now been blocked by the investment activity in question. We could also say that we are positive for Article 19, as the rapporteurs are looking forward to the extension of loose legislative supervision, for example through the venture capitals. The great need to support this model is also seen by our country's current financial situation. Loans are not given very easily and rather these loans are given after consultation between us and you. There is, however, the free market. Democracy and the free market have no dead ends. And they shouldn't have dead ends. Citizens themselves, relying on their powers and on an individual freedom environment, which may be contrary to SYRIZA's obsolete ideology or rather part of SYRIZA Members, find the edge and start their efforts by supporting each other. Apart from this particular issue, the crowdfunding, we have also seen in the committee a wide range of positive legislative provisions in the current draft law. I shall refer to a number of separate issues, which I did not mention in my speech in the last committee. All NSAs therefore have the opportunity to acquire the status of representative of the bond holders. To date, this possibility only applied to those who provided the takeover service, as the role of the depositary, rather than the contractor, was inextricably linked to it. The opening up of responsibilities, in this case, is absolutely positive and solves a number of outstanding problems, which the investment services sector has been facing up to now. A good thing is the regulations on AEDACs, that is to say, companies dealing with the management of one or a lot of funds. These companies can also provide investment advice, as well as security and administrative management services for collective investment undertakings. It is therefore explicitly foreseen that the AEDCs for each of the mutual funds it manages will ensure that the definition of a single depositary, following the authorisation of the Securities Committee, established in Greece or another Member State with a branch in Greece. Thus, it is correctly ensured that a mutual fund cannot have more than one depositary. More order will therefore be placed on the site and one, a single list of the supervisory tasks of the UCITS depositaries. In summary, these tasks shall be analysed in compliance with the applicable rules on sale, issue and repurchase. The procedures for the acquisition and cancellation of units of a UCITS are also monitored accordingly, as is the effort to ensure that the fee will be paid in time together with the confirmation that the investment company’s profits are made available in accordance with the law. Because, in the Central Association, we pay particular attention to transparency, we equally welcome the registration of the administrative sanctions and the administrative measures that the Securities and Market Committee can take. Of course, that would not be enough if there were no access facilities. That is why we also fully agree with the obligation of the Securities and Markets Committee to publish on its website decisions which impose sanctions. We also see some legislation on anonymous real estate investment companies. These are those who are following us and, if necessary, do not know - for companies with special tax treatment, such as HZ in the United States and in other countries. These companies invest in real estate and typically distribute a large proportion of net profits as dividends. Therefore, the possibility for SNEs to participate at least 25% in another company, which is intended to acquire, manage and operate real estate. This includes real estate investments, as the purpose of the participation of SNEs in the capital of that company is to implement a common business strategy for the development of real estate of less than EUR 10 million. We have, of course, our objections too. For example, in Article 3 it appears that the party of the days continues uncontrollablely. Also, uncontrollable are the approvals of remuneration. Article 11 runs counter to the basic principles of the Constitution and gives the Securities Committee the right to be aware of telephone conversations and all other personal or financial data. We believe that the current and existing legislations are sufficient. We do not need to simplify things so much that the prosecutor's jurisdiction procedures are circumvented. This is how individual rights are directly enforced. Article 14 reintroduces the appeal order for the publication of administrative sanctions on the Internet. I think there's gonna be a problem here, and you won't be able to do it without the prosecutor's permission. Let's go to Article 20, which seems to be a taco-circular, because it's a five-point hit. Article 27 concerns Roma housing. It is our permanent problem to convince the Roma to have a stable, permanent residence, to be able to form their children, because while Roma move from place to place, it is difficult to register children every week at another school. So the problem is like an iceberg. We see the tip of the iceberg. We should look at this with a diffusion character and give some time, perhaps even joining a European Union programme. However, we insist, because it is about Roma, that it wants attention and understanding. In conclusion, I would like to say that we are generally positive towards the specific legislative framework that harmonises us with the European Union's standards. We are therefore voting in favour of this because the positive effects we see outweigh some negative ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Cavadela. Minister, will you speak after the parliamentary representatives?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u44	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u45	Mr Dendias and Mr Karras have been asked for the floor from the parliamentary representatives. Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first I wish a good month, a good autumn, a good parliamentary term. I think we have serious things to do and hard crabs to get through. Now, with regard to this legislation, I think that the position of our rapporteur, Mr Stamatis, has been absolutely sufficient on the part of the New Democracy. I would like to say, Minister, that we are very much waiting for your response to the issue that has raised you with regard to the other prerequisites, the implementation time, the reception of the dosing and all that has been put in its place. With regard to the legislation itself, which is worth noticing - but this is common now, I do not think that there is a need for a second point, the Greek society as a whole understands - it is the characteristic bilingualism that is presented today and yesterday, without this correction and - if you like - a welcome change of attitude to have been a sufficient explanation - as I say, others say "apologies" - towards society in order to destroy a collective myth, a myth that this Left has built for too many years about a supposedly different course with different concepts, with different analyses, with different sizes. This myth showed that he didn't really take it. So society is right to have an explanation. From that point on, the big issue that should concern us here is not the legislation - we will vote on it, we have been placed by the committee clearly and clearly - but the lack of a scenario on the part of the Government for the evolution of the Greek economy is now being seen. I noticed, in a previous speech by the present Minister, that he should refer to the conclusion of his speech - I might paraphrase him a little, but I think the point is precisely that - that only one left-wing government can get the economy out of this crisis. Let the Minister and the Government explain what this scenario is with which we are going to get out of the crisis. Let's see the sizes, even at the moment when it's probably the best time for the government. We come out of a summer where we had an increase in arrivals. I don't know if we've had an increase in receipts, that's what we'll see. It is certain, however, that with the help of both the poor situation in Turkey and the wider region, Greek tourism has stood and more people have come to the country. So this is the best time for the government and yet the recession is evidently deepening. If you see the figures published today for turnover in the retail trade, you will notice that we have a minus 5.2%. At the level of summer discounts, the reduction reaches about 10%, is 9% and something. Mr Lykoudi spoke earlier on the question of investment. No one disagrees that investment in the country is in fact nonexistent. As far as the deposits are concerned, there is no recovery element. Also, on exports, the rate is extremely unpleasant, minus 8.1%. If we remove the oils - Mr Stathakis said we always take the oil - we have almost 2% less, minus 1% and something. There is no single area of optimism. Unemployment: Central problem, not economic. A central, social and political problem for the country. It's about the future of the country. The highest percentage in Europe is maintained, 23.5%. Portugal is four points behind us. The worst is, however, a number announced, that in the first quarter of 2016 only 4.3% of those unemployed in the last quarter of 2015 found work. This means that unemployment is gaining structural characteristics. Those who enter unemployment no longer come out of unemployment. The proportion in Europe is four times as high. The average of the European Union is more than 16% of those who are unemployed have found jobs in the first quarter of 2016. It can therefore be seen that, in general terms, in the situation of the crisis and the economy, but also in society, unemployment is a bomb on the foundations of society. Unemployment of this size in the long term can never be tolerated by any society historically. Side effects will be inconceivable. So no one sees this getting deeper, they don't improve. Let us take the broader picture of the situation. Do you want to go to immigration? The government and the Prime Minister and in a series of ministers had boasted that in any case humanity faced the problem, found solutions, etc. The entry levels every day have passed - you have not noticed - the 2012 entry levels that were considered a crisis. We've spent five hundred a day. If you have not noticed, it means that the government's majority and the government do not understand the reality. Can I also describe the situation on the islands of the eastern Aegean? You know the situation on the islands of the eastern Aegean. Local economies and local communities are now being dissolved. The hot spots that have been created operate outside the Greek legal system. We will have huge problems in these areas in the months that come and there are no overall scenarios for their management, including these people in everyday life, since they are here, and generally addressing their problems. The Minister responsible is fighting. I have nothing to say about his efforts. It does what it can, within the framework of limited capabilities. This is completely inadequate in relation to the circumstances. With regard to public order in general: ladies and gentlemen, public order is completely collapsed in Greece, as the country's penitentiary system is completely inexistent. The country lacks a penitentiary system. You may not want to understand it. In fact, the only thing that the government is doing in managing the penitentiary system is to pass legislation which makes people from prisons every time to face the great population of prisons, a practice which I must say has also been followed in the past - because I want to be fair - but not to this extent and not to be the only solution. The only solution at the moment is this, and that is why there is the tranquility that exists in the penitentiary system internally. The penitentiary system does not exist as a penitentiary system. So no one has any reason to protest, because after a while they will be out and anyway, as long as they are within, there is no prison. We noticed a high-ranking police officer being beaten down in the center of Athens, ladies and gentlemen. To be informed about this. The New Democracy has rightly issued a communication. Mr. Mitsotakis was right to take a stand on the matter. I, too, took a stand on the matter. First we express our sympathy and support for the specific institution of the Hellenic Republic. Beyond this, however, we must be informed. In a democratic state the police are the democratic body of the state. Does SYRIZA have reservations about the Greek police? You're the majority. Make the changes that need to be made. In any case, the governing bodies are now in charge, and you have nominated them. If, then, you think that something is not sufficiently democratic in your understanding, you have all the opportunity to change it. But that's not what's happening right now. It's something else. The democratic police of democracy is being beaten. She's no longer performing her role. What's her role? The lawful violence under the Constitution and the laws, only the police have it. And when? Only under the supervision of the judicial authority. This has been reversed. There is no longer a public order, in the sense of the civil democratic state in that country today. Anyone who takes anything he wants, in whatever way he wants, is ridiculing the state, mocking democracy, mocking the government, and the government simply tolerates it. As a state we have institutional dissolution characteristics. Do you want to understand that? Good. Don't you want to understand that? Very well. Society will give you to understand it. However, this picture of the country is being distributed both internally and abroad. You're going to tell me, are there any areas in which there's a hope, a light? It was tragic what happened yesterday with education. The piece of legislation, passed by the parliamentary majority on education, was tragic. It was tragic for higher education, it was tragic for private education. It was not at all helpful for public education, which we all agree is - it must and must be - the core. It was a regression - depending on sector - fifteen to thirty-five years old. With all these things, which are happening - despite the wishes that always have to characterise the principle of every effort and honestly our will in New Democracy - every government of the country - even though we are not opposition - must succeed, because we all live in this place, our children live in this place. We need his pretext. But, unfortunately, we have been through a dissolution phase and that is too, too dangerous. I'm really sorry my first place in the new period was characterized by a very bad description of reality. And I am sorry that this suggestion, unfortunately, was absolutely accurate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. The Parliamentary Representative of the Association of Centres, Mr Karras, has the floor for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I wish both the Bureau and my colleagues a productive and effective parliamentary period, because it is absolutely necessary for the country, for society and for the conditions that have been set up today. We should also wish a strong exit, not only from the economic crisis, but also from the political and social crisis that the country is experiencing. Therefore, a bill that comes from the Ministry of Finance and attempts to regulate the capital market is always interesting if it is able to motivate the economy, but still has an interest in it and even when it does not promote economic issues, even as a regulatory plan. Today's bill comes to crystallise the 2008 crisis, which led to the collapse of the world economy and at the same time marked the start of the economic crisis in Greece by, unfortunately, the fact that we are still in crisis after eight years, while those who have been cycled - and in particular the European countries that have been surrounded at the same time - have already come out of the crisis, even though they have political problems like Spain, which is not yet being formed. As far as we are concerned, elections will be held next time. In any case, Spain does not have what Greece is experiencing today. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] The regulation of the capital market is always useful and always important. Because I said that the newest directive, which comes today to be incorporated into national law, crystallises the effects of the crisis, I would like to explain it. We all know that when a European directive is introduced, it is a long-term process of consultation, compromises and agreements. Therefore, the 2009 Directive did not hide the experience of the crisis and there was a need for a further amendment and supplementation. And our rapporteur, Mr Cavalellas and we, whenever we were given the opportunity, said how yes, we agree with such a bill, which should at least be a part of the Greek legal order. I would like to refer back to this point. We do not hope for results of this bill as such, even though it refers to UCITS and extra-bank borrowing interest issues. We do not hope for the reason that it is not that bill that will give the economy a restart. And, if you want, the resetting of the economy won't come with a bill. It will come with the creation of conditions of optimism in the country, the fight against unemployment, the creation of jobs and even the change of business climate. We do not see these, at least to date, so that we, too, can feel as a party belonging to the middle, centre space, optimism. We consider, however, positive that matters are raised for depositary, remuneration and bonus policy, the well-known Golden Boys bonuses of America, Europe, Asia, which led us to the collapse of 2008. Because then the economy was operating vice versa. It worked, even fictionally, to deliver fictional gains to those who created the fictitious virtual gains. I feel, therefore, that this directive - and that is why I am referring to the votes - as incorporated, at least in the institutional context, will create a stability on the capital market. I want to say a few things about the other provisions of the bill. I think it is unnecessary and you will forgive me, it will be a multiple repetition of the issues that have been raised in committee, when it has been discussed today. I am therefore interested in some aspects of this bill and I would like to emphasise them. I am particularly concerned about Article 20, ladies and gentlemen. It's been told to the committee. The explanatory statement does so. It was heard that the banks and the Bank of Greece were asked to free the extra-bank interest rate, because this would constitute the lever of financing through borrowing and, in particular, through bonds from Greek companies. You know what? With regard to bond loans, 5.3%, which is currently the case with the last instrument of the Ministerial Council, in my view, is excessive. I can say it's tocopheric. When yesterday for the Greek state the Public Debt Management Agency came out and issued trump cards, it took EUR 850,000,000, of a six-month period at an interest rate of 2,65%. But who will give money to businesses with 8% and 10%? The markets have woken up. Do you know why the capitalists woke up? Because they know that if they give 8%, 10%, 6%, 7% interest rate and if they get that interest rate, it will never be paid. The conditions of the Greek economy are not appropriate for such interest rates. I think, therefore, that, by liberalising the interest rate, we will also lead the few businesses, which we can say are sound and can issue through a bank a bond loan, to further losses and risks. I would like to point out to Minister Juliarakis - he is obviously aware of it - that it is not just the wording of Law 3156 on bonds. If we go to the same law a little further, we'll see the capital that regulates housing, consumer, business loans and are usually linked to international practice with issue and bond lending. Because if I optimize the housing loans of the bank, the buyer, the special-purpose company, does not have immediate liquidity. It does not acquire direct liquidity. Direct liquidity is acquired through the simultaneous issue of a bond loan covered in terms of guarantees and collateral from loans granted through the securitisation. So where are we going if there is a combination of securitisations in the future? We also talk about green loans, business and housing. There are green loans too, not all red! Fortunately, thank God! We also have a small percentage of green loans, but I fear that the banks will be forced to grant them. So we can give it to special-purpose companies. Because we may be talking about extra-bank interest, but let me take the view that, when we talk about extra-bank interest, it is a little ironic. Why? Because the extra-bank interest rate is sought by the special-purpose company recommended by the bank and the company to issue the bond loan. So, again in the banking system, we remain, even if we have made a fencing that is extra-banking. I would therefore like - we have said that we will vote for the bill - to stand very much on this point, because if the extra-bank rate is released and the bond-linked health bank loan is linked, then we should close the door, ladies and gentlemen, of Greece and say that we have all failed, because the Bank of Greece may be recommended for the sake of making profits and benefits to the banks, but I do not know, I did not hear whether the business would like this. Unfortunately, it was considered to be a formal procedure in committee for discussing the draft bill. It was short, because it was 4 to 5 August, and we were all in a hurry to leave and we did not hear the views of people on the market. I would like them to be recorded, put to discussion and particularly by the government, because in the end I do not want there to be any surprises. You understand that I am referring very consistently and seriously to this point. Because I have consumed a lot of my time on this issue which concerns me, of course I have to say two words on the crowdfunding. Good, I like American systems coming to Greece, and we small businesses, too, through the crowdfunding, to fund them. So I ask this: is there a saving in Greece today to be able to finance such activities? I read yesterday - I have it near me - "The Germans are saving money at home now, a big increase in safer sales," says international news, which means what? That due to the negative interest rates of large banks, the little one, the average saver wants to have his money safe so he doesn't pay for the pox. So what we are seeing is a trend towards generalisation, not only those who will ask for the extra-bank rate referred to in Article 20 will run at high levels, but there will be no room for the crowdfunding, because no one will be at risk - well said by Mr Stamatis - the right to return within 15 days, which is a principle of consumer law. I would also say something else, and within six months of the acquisition, can there be one, because if the money, these few, the 5,000 euros, the 3% or 10% of the annual or three-year individual income of any company or company that goes against tobacco, you know what we'll remember? I fear that these provisions will be exploited. We will remember in 1999 to a lesser extent, but in multiple consequences. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President, with your tolerance, in a few seconds, saying that too. I was concerned and it was really serious, and Mr. Dimitris Kammenos's proposal on the subject of the ENPI to the building cooperatives. I asked him, he was kind enough to give it to me and I saw it. It says, therefore, that, for real estates in the building cooperatives, the ENPI must distribute to their members at the rate of participation of each of them. This cannot be done - I appreciate his efforts - because members are not rightholders. They have a expectation of acquisition by cooperatives, which could never be distributed legacy, to distribute plots, to become housing development. It is right that HNPH should not be imposed on the President - the representative of the cooperative, because we will lead him to prison. So I would suggest that the government find another equivalent. Lots of equivalents he searched at times, but he didn't always find them. But here, at least in this case, as far as the budget for the building cooperatives is concerned, I must remind you that the cooperatives of the building cooperatives are caught by the dictatorship and, on the other hand, either in the form of forest land, in the form of non-building or in whatever form. Don't blame them for something else, which they can't afford. To sum up, then, I say: we say yes to the regulation of the capital market, but with the comments I have made, because the new, innovative financial instrument arrangements are good, but we must also take into account the Greek specificities, because the online platforms of the crowdfunding are good, but these days we also have some other online democracy television licence platforms there, and there we will not have televisions, because - I will say this directly and seriously - and we have previously accused them of struggling, namely that they were the owners of the U.S. presidents, that they were, at the end of the day, a great deal, when they are 'blue', we will once again become U.S. Presidents, again as holders of licences. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u49	Mr Karakostas, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u50	As shown by a number of relevant publications, this draft law comes to work out and vote following persistent requests from the Stock Exchange and the Securities Committee. This draft law is composed of two parts. The first part relates to the adaptation of the Community Directive 2014/91 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe, which provides for the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to UCITS, namely collective investment undertakings in transferable securities. This Directive amends the provisions of previous Directive 2009/65 with a view to taking into account developments in the market, the responsibility of depositarys and the penalties that the Securities and Market Committee may impose in cases where there is an infringement by the parties concerned. In the second part of this section, as well as new forms of financing, such as so-called equity financing or an English crowdfunding, are adopted. Once again, then, in which our country is called upon to adapt to a Community directive, I take the opportunity to ask - not to you, of course, but to the Greek people - 'Which is the interests of these Community directives, which are passed by the governments and which are made the laws of the State and which they are obliged to apply themselves to their own States and peoples?' Ten years ago, in 2006, in particular in April of that year, the then government of the New Democracy with Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis considers it appropriate for Greek legislation to comply with Community Directive 2001/55. For this purpose, it shall be published in the Official Journal of the Government of 14 April 2006 under the Presidential Decree No 80. But the question is what exactly the concrete transposition of the Community directive was intended to be. We read from the Official Journal of the Government, sheet number 82, 14 April 2006: ‘Presidential Decree number 80. Provision of temporary protection in the event of a mass influx of displaced persons’. It is obvious that the Brussels coupon headline has divinational abilities or magical capacity to turn from a shed of thirsty speculators to biblical prophets. In fact, in order to put an end to every attempt to defraud the Greek people from the Europeans - the old, but also the late ones - of the internationalist left, I will read you from Chapter I on the general provisions of Article 1 which speaks of the purpose. ‘The purpose of this Presidential Decree is to comply with Council Directive 2001/55 on minimum standards for the provision of temporary protection in the event of a mass influx of displaced persons and measures on a fair distribution of burdens between Member States, as regards the reception and treatment of the consequences of receiving such persons’. I repeat, 'and the measures for a fair distribution of burdens between Member States, concerning the reception and treatment of the consequences of receiving these people'. Therefore, even those who, with the courage of a thousand monkeys, declare that our country demonstrates its progressiveness and Europeanism by faithfully and religiously enforcing the famous Community directives, should explain not to us, but to the Greek people, why the domestic political system applies a directive which all the other European states have violated by closing their borders on those who hypocritically call'refugees'. This is a directive which, apart from the fact that it burdens the already bankrupt Greek economy, namely the Greek taxpayers, constitutes a real bomb on the foundations of Greek society. Of course, the late Europeans on the left in the matter of bypassing the directive from the European partners have responded with the ostensibly, except 'they are not humanists, we are'. Of course we would not have the slightest reason to question the humanism of the Left if it met a single condition. Who? He did what he is doing today for the hundreds of thousands of Greeks from the East invigorated by the Greek people, but guests of the comrades Tsipras and Kammenos. However, because the famous and always-advertised humanism deprives you, when it comes to satisfying the real needs of survival of the Greeks, we have every right to call you contractors of a hub of humanism, which is now proven to serve the interests of the predators of international capital. Anybody who disputes it is exposed and disproved by the information in the correspondence of your worshiper George Soros, who recently saw the lights of publicity. We Greek nationalists, being humanists and realists at the same time, demand that the government on the left of the humanists create hospitality structures with prerogatives corresponding to those in which illegal immigrants are installed for Greek homeless and unreserved, the victims of a drama that you have created and which you continue with. We do not, of course, have any illusions that you would never proceed to such an action. And we do not have delusions because we nationalists know that under the cloak of false humanism you are hiding the face of vulgar resentment, which clearly takes the character of bent racism against the Greeks. What I have said above I think is indicative of someone's very purpose in serving the Community directives of an Agency which is not the well-being of Europe's peoples, but of their economics - and not just - a strangulation for the benefit of a caste of international taboo that runs tyrannically through their banks and speculative foundations. In view of this, we also see the current incorporation of the Community directive on which we list the statements not of an extreme nationalist, but of the President of the Association of Institutional Investors, who stressed the following: "These measures are as if we wish to expel Greek small and medium-sized investors from Greece and lead them to funds from foreign companies, which have almost zero tax and, in essence, Greek capital to finance the development of other countries". For the People's Association - Golden Dawn, this draft law does not offer any relief to the hard-tested Greek people, on the contrary, it clearly aims at arrangements that serve the needs and interests of financial institutions, which clearly do not go hand in hand with those of the overwhelming majority of the Greeks. In contrast to the scandalous treatment of financial institutions by the state, it finds itself the inhuman and unjust and isotropic treatment of the state towards Greeks and Greeks, for whom the only prospect is new sacrifices through new hard taxes, to save, not what is currently called a state, but the corrupt, domestic banking system and the international speculative capital, which also constitute the true state of the monuments. To conclude, because the Golden Dawn does not serve international loan sharks and their political puppets in the European Union, but only serves the Greek people and accounts only to him, we are voting against this draft law in principle and on the articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u51	Now, because there is not another parliamentary representative here in the Chamber, Mr Mandas will be given the floor. SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Mandas, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u52	I'm not gonna run it all out. I would not take the floor, but there were some reasons - if you like - from other positions, which I think should not be left unanswered. I would just like to try to address more general issues than the bill, which finds common acceptance and is a common place, no doubt. In particular, the question of crowdfunding seems to me to be a crucial and important element introduced by this provision. I am also going to go through - but, noting that, I do not go beyond it - the racist misconduct that has once again been heard from the Golden Dawn side, which continues its leadership every day to be indicted in the process because it is accused of the known facts and crimes that have occurred.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u53	Are you a judge, sir?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u54	I say 'it's accused' because it's in progress. I know what I'm saying and watch what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u55	You could denounce me very simply for racism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u56	Keep going, Mr. Mada. They don't need any comments now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u57	I'm on it. With regard to a number of issues that were specifically mentioned by the Parliamentary spokesman for the Civilian Representation and because they are indeed issues that concern the substance of things - Mr Stop it, I would like to ask the Minister, but I would like to say a word and a word of that - I would like to say a few things about the issues that Mr Stamatis has raised in general. Let's start from public policy. We have talked too many times with Mr Denktash specifically on this matter and on the public side, but also on the private side, and I am really sorry that he has reached his approach. I'll tell why. Because the ending - this is of course a favourite issue for the New Democracy and the Conservative party in general and which comes back whenever the strategy gap is more than obvious - no doubt there is no second word on it, there is an absolute condemnation of the attack on the head of Trojan. However, I was impressed by this approach and would like to note it. He says Mr Dendias - and I would ask him not to take it as a staff, it is a political controversy, if he wants to answer me - that the roles have been reversed and the police are being beaten, rather than doing legal work, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, I say that we shall be going to another time: neither beat nor beat. Because the Greek Police, Mr. Dendias, like all public order in all the countries of the world, of course, has a mission. Of course, it has specific things, but it is not the reintroduction of normality to go through some previous times, where, in your opinion, the situation has been irreversibly reversed, and where the police constantly and continuously may have exercised beyond the law sometimes. You know that there have been specific issues about this. I'm reporting the famous case with the student in Thessaloniki. We must not go to such a logic, I am sorry, but we must go to a logic of legality. It's over. Two. You said about the refugee. I would like to leave the question of education and the economy. It is recently in the memory of the Greek people, with the visit of the head of the High Authority, but also with statements from the top officials of Europe, Mrs Merkel, the congratulations that our country has accepted for the fact that, in these very difficult circumstances that our own and our people have, in this very difficult landscape that we are in, to face, I do not say excesses, with elementary dignity and in a coordinate way, this huge real problem. A problem which, perhaps - and I would like to point out it - has not yet come to an end, nor is it entirely predictable, when the flows go up every day and when there are problems in the islands, etc. They will answer you, because you have asked a corresponding question in a few days and the Minister responsible, but I think that - and you know that - there is a systematic effort - with difficulties, with weaknesses, with problems - but there is an effort in a certain direction. This is indeed the direction of solidarity and humanism, a direction which I think gave lessons to some of Europe's extremes, who will shortly be invited to one of the countries, to vote on the Golden Dawn agenda, whether or not we will throw out the smuggling people. So let us be counted and careful in this debate and we will certainly do it again on another occasion. I'm going through education now. Look, a lot of systemic forces are known to be committed to the law Diamantopoulou. It's a familiar passion. I was in a panel today where the main issue was empty, but there were too many things that were said about education there. The attachment of systemic forces to this model is well known. These criticisms come one day later, which I think there was a certain convening in the House, with the exception of the New Democracy, where, in the way we have tried, a soup in the area of private education, which has been going on for so many years. The fact that rules were in place for people working in private education, that they too could be decent in their work and in their instruction, some did not like it. It is obvious that this is a conflict that has deep class characteristics. Also, it did not like that the famous forecasts for the collapse of public schools, etc., were not confirmed. I did hear - and I do hear - that my colleague is not here, but I think I have the opportunity to say it - the famous logic that if we were to give, he says, voucher to students, then the public schools would be empty, everyone would go to the private. It was said yesterday in this Chamber, trying to show how much the public education system has been broken down. Um, it's not coming out of you. It does not come out or do so, not because it became a terrible revolutionary thing in the field of education. We are talking about the basic things, which I think the Ministry of Education did with yesterday's bill and in the right direction, and it was also supported by the workers in the field, particularly private education. It is because there is indeed a lack of strategy and a gap in the ability to formulate a basic, I would say, strategy and an elementary account of what will happen from now on. I'm going to the last one. I imagine the Minister will have a chance to say a few things too, but I want to say something. Look, if one truth is what you said, Mr Tindemans, about the fall of consumer faith, about one, about the other, and so on, there is another truth, and the other truth says that not only domestic factors of the economy but also external factors are talking about clear signs - I will not be excessive - stabilization of the economy and the prospect of economic recovery. The economic climate you know, in terms of this area in the space, as has been seen from recent studies. It seems to be the best of the last 12 months, with consumer confidence falling, of course. Yes, that's a reality, but we're living in a complex reality. You know that very well, as everyone knows, and not only in our country but also in the European Union, and I would dare say globally. So we don't do any success story advertising. We say, however, that we have a specific strategy, a timetable, a very specific roadmap for unemployment, which is indeed the big problem and indeed our country continues to be a champion, unfortunately, in this area. However, there are some indications at least let's talk about them. It's hard, with restraint, but they're positive, what can we do? In the first half of 2016, there were two hundred and fifty-three thousand new recruitments and twenty thousand new jobs, with problems as far as full employment is concerned. Yes, it is. Half of them are part-time, etc., but they are something, it is an indication. In any case, we are not celebrating, but there are positive points, and there is a tendency, if I may, and I think it will be evident, despite the difficulties and problems that we obviously have before us, at the end of the year it will become quite clear - I do not want to say about other forecasts that exist - that the economy will have stabilised and will have very serious prospects for recovery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u58	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u59	Did you see anything personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u60	There was...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u61	Because your name was mentioned? It was a political criticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u62	For a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u63	Well, if you insist, I'll give it to you for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u64	I am not going to exacerbate my fellow Member, and his style and our relationship would not allow me to. First of all, I should like to welcome and welcome his statement on the absolute condemnation of the incident against the police director. I will not dwell on the rest which have been said. I understand that most of them are called by treaty. No one wants to exercise any violence. That's well known. The question is, when the bad time comes, who according to the Constitution and the laws of the state - the state, which you are commanding - has the prerogative. I have to say that for your days, my dear fellow Member, we have returned to the phenomena of the separatism of the Exarchates, the parade of an armed group, for the first time, since I have known, over the years, in Exarches without answer, the occupation of the Patriarchates road, the burning of public transport and all those who are aware of the moment, I sincerely hope, that it will take place, which SYRIZA will directly and internally and fully condemn and will also act to stop. I always smile when the government or the government majority invokes Mrs Merkel as an authority. You'll forgive the smile. In any case, however, the truth is that Hot spots are neither coordinates nor decent. I'm not telling you this in a bad way. I hope it improves. Repeatedly, from the first moment, I and New Democracy as a whole and Kyriakos Mitsotakis are ready to help in any way we can. We had warned about what is going to happen. You didn't hear us. As far as the general subject of education is concerned, there is a level downwards. I don't think there's any doubt about that. As far as institutional dismantling is concerned, I will tell you this: I have avoided referring to the channels and I would not say this if you did not make an indirect reference. That story doesn't honor the country either. This is ridiculous. The image of people who are candidates for licences - whatever they are, whoever they are - will be judged - with chemical toilets, closed, with manuscripts called electronics, is a global ridiculousness. Greece returns to incredible standards and all this is done on this government and at the moment of the last need. The need for the country to go through for a better future if, as you have rightly said, we are able to combat the major and first unemployment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Loverdos, Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u66	Madam President, I shall speak from my position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u67	You have 12 minutes, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u68	Thank you. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I have a personal problem, Madam President, because I have been interrupted in my examination by Mr Alfouzo in the committee of inquiry, and I must, as soon as I finish my speech, go back. It's not rude to the Minister, but it's the parallel obligations we have in this House. It will be heard by our party and will be expressed if it needs to be expressed at the end of its speech, with our rapporteur, Mr Arvanitides, whose position covers me and as he has shaped it in the Standing Committee, but also today. When the Ministry of Finance is here, even for the transposition of a directive like today, the debate on the economy is definitely here. As a parliamentary representative, I call on Mr Arvanitides' suggestion, on the draft law under discussion, to be ratified, and I would like to generalise my debate on economic matters, for which I was anyway intended to speak, but in response to some of the points made by Mr Mandas. Minister, with the mutation that your prolongation has, when you come here, you come to discuss issues that are not related to Thessaloniki programs anymore or to the promises of parallel programs and equivalent measures that you falsely gave in September 2015. We come to discuss issues that are being discussed throughout the European Union and throughout the advanced Western part of our planet: the development, operation of the economy, namely, for the good of citizens, people and since we are in crisis, burdens for citizens. There are ministers who have room to make political references and stand at the top of the issue, making an effort to coordinate the work of this government or their ministry with what they said at the time when you were not a government, but an opposition or a small opposition. They are able, however, to do so because their Ministries are moving outside the economy and outside the scope of the memorandum. But when we talk to the Ministry of Finance, we talk to the Minister who takes pictures of him now, on newspapers and on sites, with banners against HNPHA in a protest at the Thessaloniki International Prime Minister's International Exhibition - obviously on the previous government. This fairy tale has brought you to these chairs. And now that you've mutated - but man doesn't change, devour, change - he cannot, especially the politician who defines his words, determines his history, his political space - to the needs you have now, supposedly, devoured you do not respond. You, as Minister of Finance, don't have the function of the economy in your spectrum? When you talk, no one understands that he is concerned with what you say, only if he is to put his burdens on him uselessly. Since the economic process was starting to change - at last - two years after the creditors' forecasts and yet to change - and this year it would be at a growth rate of 3.7%, in the forecasts of the European Central Bank, and now it is in recession. Mr Manda, Mr. Parliamentary Representative of the majority, how do you speak of signs in the economy that have a tone of optimism - small but with a tone of optimism - when the recession is called upon to close in 2017? Well, there will be. How do you say that when the Gross Domestic Product, even if we have a recession of 0.3%, will 2 billion fall compared to 2014? How do you say that? And if I hear forecasts of too much experience about the economy of politicians or economists and the recession closes over 1%, the consequences are much more serious. How can you say the clues, or the Prime Minister that the economy is entering the rails? And your devastated self has the tools? What tools does it have? Your MEP, the other day, speaking of a small- and medium-sized-sized economy, said that "we should be united" and "the small businessman you knew" is going to mention the social economy, for which the Ministry of Labour has not put a penny, if you go and ask the employees who work there left in their luck. Social economy, says, will solve the problem of individuality and collectiveness in the business sector in Greece, a majority MP. The Minister responsible for development brought a tool, the development law with 2004 copying, the failed model of development law. And I said here that the only development law in Greece was 1952, which was three pages. For decades now, unsuccessful bureaucratic standards have been coming that may reinforce anyone who needs no one, but who needs and is relying on the money he gets, he will go to jail, because the money will never get it or get it so late that his business will be closed. What did you do about them? You brought a copy of the 2004 model, the 2004 standard, the failed one. What are you doing? What are you gonna do? Stathakis, the Minister of Development, says that. He doesn't say anything. The Treasury, centrally, what does it say? Doesn't he see the course of the economy? He's not talking to us? Doesn't it tell us what people think and what they should think? Can't he give in to the economy? We're not talking about getting into a rational state-run economy. There aren't any of these. But, at least, getting directions, removing bureaucratic obstacles. Mr Arvanitides said 'another relationship between the state and the economy' that the country needs and no one has offered it. That was the need after all these years of the crisis. You're elsewhere. You're back. People have assets that are increasingly losing their value. And what do you think? What are you doing? What are you thinking? What do you have in mind? What do you get the night you come home to your pillow as anxiety? What you're telling us here is empty things. There are, Madam President, times when you say something can be done. You see, let's say the Greek Petroleum that double their profits and increase their exports. You see the Greek you accepted, at last, after what you said. However, these are small specific exceptions to the number of people involved - but they are big issues - which, if not everyone - and especially Mr Pitsirla, are being persecuted by half of your ministers. Half of your ministers are out in public, and they're denounced. That's why I'm saying you can't change. You're out of your mind, but changing radically can't be done. You're taken back yesterday by your self, by the one who created the problems in the country. Since I am talking about the economy, ladies and gentlemen, I am making a reference to something I heard last night. I didn't have time to confirm that. Will the great Baroufakis, controlled by a thousand topics in the presence of the President of the Republic, give Athens a lecture? Mr Varoufakis must speak to a committee of inquiry - pre-review. Not to come to Athens to speak of the economy in the presence of the President of the Republic! If that's the case, hearing it from secure information, it's going to be a political party. I want to see Mr Pavlos going to listen to Mr Varoufakis if this is verified. I'm putting it down, though. It's not a matter of today. It was a matter yesterday. We've been through it. There was a debate on education in a truly creative climate these two days, although the draft law had the amendment for eternal students. And that's why there was a conversation. With regard to the reference made by the majority parliamentary representative, I would like to make a special reference. First, anyone who talks about the Centre and the Central Left speaks with the symbolism of a government of the past that had Prime Minister Eleftherios Venizelos and Minister of Education George Papandreou. Whoever's looking at us should be looking that way. If you don't look there in history, leave the center and centre-left space alone. Anyone who looks at us and who wants to make our toys know that we have this historic payment. So the area of education has been in our hands since '81 and then had manifestations. Our policy had expressions relating to private education and some laws - the latter was in 2000 - which had a reasonable old age when the Centre and the Central left were employed. However, in 2010 we balanced ourselves in a version that private education is also a good thing and is protected by Article 16 of the Constitution. There are limits to State interference in it, but there is definitely State interference, because it is education. It's not an accidental item that's sold. The rate of intervention in relation to state supervision has changed and balanced in 2010. A government is now coming back. This regression in relation to the issue since 2010 - I have been talking specifically about specific policies - is baptising it 'progress' and even wants to find common places on this issue. We said 'no' yesterday to the specific arrangements, although we contributed with our presence in the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Education. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a given fact that anyone who manages power in the middle of a political crisis evaporates. I repeat that anyone who manages power in the midst of a political crisis is evaporating. This is what happens to the present majority of SYRIZA and ANELs. The 'four' number you seem to love on another point, a number which will have many problems in the European Union - and these problems are now visible - which is the 'four' number, which is your historic electoral rate, is the number of elections which you are re-ordering, evaporating. And the more you remain in power, the more you will evaporate. Take note, however, of this: You will return where you were and you will not have your old companions together, who have separated their position from you. You'll have the opportunists of PASOK with you, those guys who didn't love you. Obvious authority they saw and as worshipers of authority they came from behind you. Take them, rejoice them too. Your course towards minority is now specified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u69	Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u70	Thank you. I won't be placed on the draft law. The draft law has been accepted almost by the opposition as a whole and I am pleased about it. I am very pleased that the Qualified Opposition for once did not hold a sterile stand. I would, however, like to make a point on a number of points raised mainly by the Qualified Opposition - but not just - regarding the economic process in the past six months. First of all, let me clarify that there is no fourth memorandum. There's no such thing as that. On May 22, 2016, the Greek Parliament voted in favour of a package of measures specialising parts of the August 2015 Agreement. These are budgetary measures for the majority of them for the whole of the three years 2016-2018. On this occasion I would like to clarify and repeat once again, that there will be no new financial measures in the next two budgets until the end of the 2018 programme. On the other hand, I would say that the current government is working on new tools, tools that were not there before, in order to enlarge the financial area, to enable the costs of the social budget to be increased, even in conditions of economic stagnation, to expand the tax base, to combat tax evasion. I am referring to two main tools. Firstly, I am referring to the legalisation of the mandatory use of electronic transactions that will come to Parliament in the next few weeks. I am referring above all to a major revision of expenditure which starts in mid-September in pilot projects in three ministries - the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Culture - to be generalised in 2017, as a whole. We will have a great savings that will enable us, in the medium term, to reduce, Mr Stamatis, but also to increase the social budget, the budget of the Ministries of Health, Welfare and Education. So no fourth memorial. There's no such thing as that. Let me say a few words on the course of the economy, especially the macroeconomic and budgetary sizes of the first half of 2016. First of all, I would like to ask the opposition, as a whole, and the Civic Opposition in particular, to study more carefully the economic sizes. I would also say to avoid misguided and unreliable statements that, in a potential way, Mr Stamatis, are harming the economy. You and Mr. Loverdos, who are not here now, mentioned that many independent bodies are waiting for a recession in 2016 more than one percent. I agree. Indeed, the prediction of many private bodies, many banks and independent agencies at the beginning of the year was for a recession of less than 1.5%, minus 2% for 2016. For the first half of 2016, more specifically, ELSTAT predicted a recession of less than 1.2%. He had more optimism, if you like, than many institutions. In fact, ELSTAT's latest data confirm that the economy was much more resilient and that the first half recession was much weaker than the one anticipated even by ELSTAT's optimistic forecast. In the first half of 2016, therefore, the growth rate was minus 0.9% and not minus 1.2%, as ELSTAT predicted. It does not correspond to the annual minus 1.5% minus 2% of other operators, unless one assumes that in the second half the recession will exceed 2% to 3%. More specifically, for the second quarter of 2016, which closed at the end of June, ELSTAT's optimistic forecast was for a recession of minus 0.2%. The real result was a positive rate, plus 0.2%. When three consecutive quarters of negative sizes come a first quarter - a small one - no doubt - of a positive size, we cannot talk about a depth of recession. Typical is the definition of the end of the recession. And our estimate is that, in fact, the Greek economy came out of the recession in the second quarter of 2016. I shall, in fact, dare say that the original forecast for annual recession minus 0.3% in 2016, made by the Ministry of Finance, is conservative. I now believe that the economy in 2016 will have a better performance. We're not celebrating. One cannot celebrate when in 2016, after a long recession, the economy remains at a standstill. But it is irresponsible - without considering the actual figures - to reproduce information that the recession is deepening. It's bad for the economy. I would ask the Qualified Opposition, if I may, Mr Stamatis, to be more responsible in this matter. Let me go through the macroeconomic figures in budgetary terms, where in the first half of the year - no one disputes this - there has been an objective of a primary surplus of 1% of GDP, close to EUR 2 billion. I told the committee responsible that it is not our intention to maintain the overrun. The year will close where it should be closed. It will close, that is, with a primary surplus of 0.5%. The second half of the year will therefore experience a large increase in public expenditure within the framework of the primary objective. This, along with the disbursement of outstanding debts, which goes on the basis of the programme - and is quite important, is of the order of 2% of GDP in July - and with the first signs of recovery of the economy - and it is not very small - will lead the Greek economy in the next two quarters, by the end of 2016, to sound positive growth rates. Therefore, the picture of the economy is entirely compatible with the Ministry of Finance's forecast in the 2016 budget, fully compatible with the forecast for the end of the recession in mid-2016 and the first signs of recovery. Is it a picture that should lead the government to reassurance? No doubt not. The sustainable and fair growth sought by the government - recovery by redistributing wealth in favour of the economically weak - needs a high rate not for one or two quarters or for one year, but in the medium term. I would remind you that the rates provided for in the programme for 2017-2018 are in the order of 2.5% to 3%. Given the low level of savings in Greece, the only realistic solution to support these rates is to attract private investment. These investments, together with public investment in Community funds, have the potential to support such growth rates. To attract private investment means areas, it means institutional areas, both in market and in administration and in justice. And these very areas will be implemented by the government next year. I have used statistics, and I would like to make a comment on ELSTAT's statistics and on the debate that has been reproduced in the last month on their reliability. First of all, I would like to say in the clearest way that the Greek Government has full confidence in the elements of ELSTAT and EUROSTAT. It has full confidence and does not question the elements on which the 2015 Agreement was based. He guarantees and protects ELSTAT's independence, just as he did with the process of installing a new manager last winter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u71	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u72	Because there is another parliamentary representative who wants to speak, would you like to put yourself directly, Mr Stamatis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u73	On the position of the Minister and because most of his reference was related to my own recommendation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u74	You want to answer him. That's allowed. I'll give you the floor then. I'm going to give the floor to Mr. Karathanasopoulos who hasn't spoken yet. How much time do you want, Mr. Karathanasopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u75	I will not waste all the time, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u76	Yes, sir. Let's see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u77	The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman said that apart from the truth presented by the New Democracy for the elements of the economy there is another truth. But the reality is one, and it is the reality of a people's family today, the working class, the self-employed, poor farms. And that is nothing but the rapid deterioration of their position, which is, of course, due to the capitalist crisis, but also to government policies being pursued, such as the policies carried out by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL after the signing of the third memorandum. So the truth, Minister and Parliamentary Representatives, is that in order to be able to achieve the first evaluation of the programme in the third memorandum, you have taken a number of measures that were deeply anti-popular, have escalated the tax raid against the people. At the same time, you tried to shape the ground for a better, greater support for business groups, monopolistic groups, such as development law. And, of course, the financial picture you presented for the first half of the year, Minister, with any primary surpluses that do not appear to be "bloody" surpluses. All of this was achieved thanks to the tax bleeding that you and the previous governments had imposed on the people's family. And this tax bleeding goes on. You have also taken new tax measures, such as the increase in VAT, the increase in excise duties, which are mainly anti-grass taxes, while at the same time maintaining the scandalous privileges in big capital on taxation. And from this point of view, any position that you are seeking to reduce the costs pilotly to three ministries, to increase the budget to social benefits, is contrary to reality, which is determined by the automatic cut, Minister. And the automatic cutter is a saying. It will hit wages and pensions in the event of budgetary divergences, it will hit social costs. Excludes all costs of support to business groups. If that's not a class policy, then what else could it be? And from this point of view, if something is confirmed by the current government's policy, it is that any recovery, which will of course be uncertain, requires the escalation of anti-grassroots policy, but a policy that has no expiry date. The logic of 'fair development' is not going to apply, because the maintenance of recovery will also mean new anti-grassroots measures and the permanentization of the liberalisation of the labour market. The second assessment also provides for greater liberalisation of the labour market, so the establishment of a working medium-term. And that's why, Minister? Because maintaining recovery - and you cannot question this - means maintaining competitiveness and capitalist profitability. Competitiveness prerequisites are to be sacrificed daily on the altar of capital gains, the rights of the working class and the fulfilment of people's needs. And that's not just what's happening in Greece. It's happening everywhere. To conclude, Madam President, because I do not want to take any more time, I would like to say that we have said that we will vote against it at the outset and on the articles because it is just trying to create common rules, to unify the European financial markets and the functions of companies active in them, that is to say, common regulatory and operational rules of a capital market which by its very nature is speculative and cannot have the character and functioning of transparency and justice. In this respect, then, we are voting against it. We shall only vote, Madam President, on Article 27. All the other articles will be voted against, as in the first place we shall also vote against. I would like to conclude by saying - of course I could have done so earlier - a question, Minister. It's about Article 20. Through the procedure referred to in Article 20, you shall release the fixing of a maximum interest rate. In the rapporteur's report you even say something unprecedented when there are negative interest rates, that the maximum interest rate - 5.50%, 5.60%, as long as it is - today and as determined is too small. Through this process, what do you make it easier? Overcompensated funds currently in existence should be invested at high interest rates, possibly also for tocopherics. Therefore, the facility is not towards the business groups to be able to raise funding for new investment projects or high-tech companies, but in essence you are facilitating overcompensated funds that are not currently located in the banks because interest rates are too low to draw speculative interest rates. And that is absurd and challenging, as you can see, Minister. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Stamatis has the floor. Mr. Stamatis, two minutes is enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u79	Give me three, Madam President. Plus two, five!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u80	You must now answer what the Minister said. If we are now making a new round of speakers and recycle the debate, it makes no sense. He didn't say anything that might rekindle the conversation. We're talking about ratification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u81	Minister, I would like to tell you personally that I appreciate the seriousness with which you are carrying out your duties, regardless of the arguments we have. And of course I understand what you received, all the Finance Ministers of the Government, after the disaster that went through the Ministry of Yianni with a "n". I understand that. From there on, however, it does not make sense to characterise the disagreement of the New Democracy as sterile, and indeed on a regular basis, when we have repeatedly passed bills of your Government. You obviously mean SYRIZA who also voted against bills with which he agreed. The final example of this sterile opposition tactic was today's bill, as you understood. Beyond that, I didn't understand what you disagree with? The additional memorial or the fourth memorial? If you are disturbed by the word 'fourth', take it off. But they are complementary. I may say it fourthly, you say it simply as a complement. I filed it. The supplementary memorandum was signed on 16 June, i.e. three weeks after Parliament took the measures. It is what I described as 'the price of unreliableness', 'the unreliability clause'. Is there anyone who disagrees with that? Also, what prevents you from presenting this to the House so that Members in particular know about it, SYRIZA's colleagues? Do you doubt the development of the agreement since it was signed in August last year? Was it charged with 1.5 billion additional measures? Has the sum of 15 billion been disbursed in June, as planned by the agreement? Oh, no. Why? Because it wasn't up to the deal. Does this gradual disbursement of loans harm growth and the national economy? I also mentioned nothing about the recession than ELSTAT published yesterday and predicting 1%. I didn't talk about 1.2%, but about 1%. I wondered, under these circumstances, that you should keep the budget expenditure low in a new year, because you do not have to give money or to activate the public investment programme that has been set up, while at the same time not collecting the funds due in time, you have declared a payment stop and the debts of the state to the citizens have now reached 7.5 billion. These are a wide-ranging picture of the economy. It's not the real economy. I do not know if you have read the previous publication of the Bank of Amerika, which says that it will probably close the second assessment, but from information it has, it has strong doubts as to whether the government will proceed with the fulfilment of all the prerequisites. What prerequisites? The ones in the supplementary memorandum which are divided into two parts. It is the 15 that I have submitted to you, and we must now take it to get the second dose, as is the remaining ones included in the additional memorandum, so that we can close the second evaluation and get the remaining 5 billion. I have presented with crystal transparency the course of evolution to come to a conclusion. We have a recession and we are regressing into the new year. The banks are closed. I remember at a meeting that was Mr Stournaras, I objected to him for his optimism. I said, "How is it possible with closed banks, with a recession? How do you view this development'? Why if there is no growth, how will the tax-supply measures be yielded, Minister? Where? The world is already on its knees. The decrease in consumption is small. It would be bigger because it comes from what a year ago, in view of the capital controls, they entered the drawers. When these too are exhausted, due to personal, family or business obligations, you will see dip in consumption. Where will the State collect from? This is the great dilemma that the government should take seriously. Because what SYRIZA should be taught recently - not you - and especially the Prime Minister is that the lies have short feet. Sometime we find them in front of us. Furthermore, it was not entirely true when the Minister of Finance told me that all the budgetary measures were taken. No, because in progress there are two. Undercovered there are two other budgetary measures: the cut-off that can be activated and means budgetary measures and, secondly, the surplus, which will in fact work, if it works quickly, to cover budgetary gaps. So these are concealed budgetary measures that are under way. In any case, it is not possible to vote in favour of this report. I would therefore say that - in relation to the effort to be made, at least you have embraced it, from what I have understood, from your reply and from the private debate we have had - there must be a great cut in expenditure, starting with the ministries. You mentioned that a moment ago, and I'm glad to hear that. Because this is the only instrument that will help us to relax tax policy and with the relaxation of driving to growth and growth to lead us to tax collection. There's a one-way road ahead of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u82	Mr Stamatis, you have used the time laid down in the Rules of Procedure. Well, he wants another speaker - why would I use the equality of weapons - to take the floor? Nobody.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u83	I'd like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Minister, if he wants to answer for a while, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u85	For just a minute, Madam President, perhaps less. I would like to make it clear, Mr Stamatis and ladies and gentlemen, that no new financial measure, no measure that was not provided for in the August 2015 agreement has been legislated or will not be legislated. Everything we have legislated so far has been part of the August agreement. We are talking about a single programme with its weaknesses and its positive effects, in relation to the two previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u86	I didn't question it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u87	No new financial measure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u88	I have not doubted that. With the reservations of HIAD...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u89	All right, Mr. Stamatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u90	That's the first. The second is that the revision of expenditure does not necessarily mean a reduction. First of all, the revision of expenditure is a government's position and not a personal position. It's a collective position, it's a government commitment and not a personal position. It will begin the next period before the end of September. Our intention is to identify those waste that will create a financial space for two reasons. The first is the reduction of taxation as soon as possible, and the second is the redistribution, namely the use of these resources in sectors which have been suffering for five years. And I'm mostly talking about health, welfare and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate was closed at the outset, and on the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Amendment of Law 4099/2012 (A'250) (incorporation into national legislation of Directive 2014/91/EU/L 257) and other provisions’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u92	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u93	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u94	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u95	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u96	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u97	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u98	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u99	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u100	Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Amendment of Law 4099/2012 (A250) (incorporation into national legislation of Directive 2014/91/EU/L 257) and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u101	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u102	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u103	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u104	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u105	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u106	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u107	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u108	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u109	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u110	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u111	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u112	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u113	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u114	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u115	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u116	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u117	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u118	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u119	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u120	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u121	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u122	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u123	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u124	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u125	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u126	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u127	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u128	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u129	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u130	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u131	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u132	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u133	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u134	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u135	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u136	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u137	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u138	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u139	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u140	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u141	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u142	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u143	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u144	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u145	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u146	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u147	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u148	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u149	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u150	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u151	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u152	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u153	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u154	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u155	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u156	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u157	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u158	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u159	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u160	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u161	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u162	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u163	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u164	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u165	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u166	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u167	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u168	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u169	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u170	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u171	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u172	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u173	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u174	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u175	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u176	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u177	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u178	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u179	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u180	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u181	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u182	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u183	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u184	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u185	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u186	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u187	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u188	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u189	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u190	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u191	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u192	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u193	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u194	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u195	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u196	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u197	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u198	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u199	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u200	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u201	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u202	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u203	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u204	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u205	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u206	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u207	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u208	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u209	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u210	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u211	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u212	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u213	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u214	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u215	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u216	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u217	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u218	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u219	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u220	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u221	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u222	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u223	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u224	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u225	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u226	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u227	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u228	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u229	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u230	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u231	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u232	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u233	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u234	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u235	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u236	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u237	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u238	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u239	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u240	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u241	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u242	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u243	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u244	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u245	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u246	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u247	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u248	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u249	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u250	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u251	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u252	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u253	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u254	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u255	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u256	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u257	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u258	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u259	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u260	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u261	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u262	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u263	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u264	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u265	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u266	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u267	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u268	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u269	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u270	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u271	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u272	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u273	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u274	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u275	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u276	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u277	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u278	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u279	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u280	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u281	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u282	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u283	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u284	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u285	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u286	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u287	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u288	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u289	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u290	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u291	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u292	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u293	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u294	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u295	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u296	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u297	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u298	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u299	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u300	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u301	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u302	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u303	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u304	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u305	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u306	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u307	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u308	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u309	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u310	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u311	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u312	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u313	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u314	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u315	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u316	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u317	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u318	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u319	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u320	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u321	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u322	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u323	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u324	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u325	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u326	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u327	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u328	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u329	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u330	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u331	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u332	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u333	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u334	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u335	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u336	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u337	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u338	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u339	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u340	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u341	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u342	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u343	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u344	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u345	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u346	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u347	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u348	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u349	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u350	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u351	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u352	Therefore, a majority of the members of the Court of First Instance have been accepted by the Court of First Instance. Therefore, the Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Amendment of Law 4099/2012 (A250) (incorporation into national legislation of Directive 2014/91/EU/L 257) and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and on articles. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u353	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u354	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u355	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u356	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u357	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u358	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u359	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u360	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u361	The draft law was therefore also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Amendment of Law No 4099/2012/A’250 (incorporation into national legislation of Directive 2014/91/EU/L 257) and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u362	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u363	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-01-S1-commons.u364	With the consent of the House at 13.20 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, September 2, 2016 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a debate on topical questions.
