ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's mandate of 6 September 2016, the minutes of the PPP's proceedings were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, on Tuesday, 6 September 2016, with regard to the vote on all draft laws:]] 1. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, on the participation of Iceland in the joint fulfilment of the commitments undertaken by the European Union, its Member States and Iceland in the second commitment period, in accordance with Doha's amendment to the Kyoto Protocol, ratified by n. Regulation (EC) No 4335/2015 (A148), the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change ratified by No. 4345/2015 (A148). Regulation (EC) No 3017/2002 (A'117).’; 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in Tourism between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic and the Saudi Committee of Tourism and Antiquities of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia’. I have the honour to inform the House of the current Questions Release of Friday 9 September 2016, which reads as follows: A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Georgios Vlachos under No 1226/6-9-2016 by the Member of the Republic of Attica to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the abolition of police departments in the Region of Attica. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 1219/5-9-2016 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about “recognition of the scoppival passports called “Macedonia””. 3. The Question No 1221/5-9-2016 by the Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the resignations of the Boards of Administration of Higher Education Institutions. 4. The question by No 1229/6-9-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece, Nicholas Moraitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the exclusion from the associated aid, on the basis of an inappropriate limit of one hundred and twenty kilograms of milk per animal, for thousands of farmers with indigenous breeds of intensive grazing. 5. The 1217/5-9-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the published balance sheet of the planning federation (GCC). 6. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Saridis, Member of the European Parliament, with regard to visas with the words ‘Macedonia’, under number 1220/5-9-2016, was answered by MP A'Thessalonica, Mr Ioannis Saridis, Minister for Foreign Affairs. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question of the situation of red loans to Evros and Thrace under number 1227/6-9-2016. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the "unjustifiable release of the Tobacco Unit from Agios Kosmas". 3. The question by No 1225/6-9-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about the possibility of reintegrating into the regulation of the hundreds of doses for all those who lost it and regardless of reason. 4. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, regarding the decision-making of contractors in the cleaning service of the Municipality of Heraklion Crete. 5. Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the complaint concerning "bad management" in the Municipality of Kefalonia, by No 1218/5-9-2016. 6. The question by No 1224/6-9-2016 of the Independent MEP II, Mr. Theocharis, Minister of Finance, concerning contracts with experts in financial, legal and financial matters to support the negotiation with the institutions for the conclusion and implementation of the relevant agreements and for the negotiation of the public debt. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the adoption of a joint ministerial decision on the designation as flood victims in the areas of Arcadia affected by the natural disaster of June. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health about the design for the start of the multi-valent Tymbakis medical profession - Heraklion Crete. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 3062/10-2-2016 question by the Independent MEP Mr Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Finance about the compensation of the Partners of Cooperative Banks. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the seventh under number 1203/30-8-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, on HOPIA, called upon to pay the "Smile of the Child". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Treasury Alexiadis. Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. It is an extremely sensitive issue that has arisen in the last few days since the government sent and the clearing houses of HISIA and opened the "TAXIS" for the relative obligation of all Greek citizens and companies operating in Greece. The "Smile of the Child", according to the clearing note received by the organization, is invited to pay HICPs, which reaches 57,000 euros. Despite efforts to hear the demands of the government organisation and the oral assurances received from the Treasury, legislative efforts will be made to exempt those organizations from taxes, they have not been implemented and, without any state funding, the organization is now called upon to pay this amount. The "Smile of the Child" is a purely Greek organization, which has supported more than a million children and their families to date, providing services and implementing activities supporting state institutions. He is the only organization in Greece with pan-Hellenic action, available twenty-four hours a day, three hundred sixty-five days a year. It is staffed by four hundred thirty-seven unpaid staff, supported by two thousand seventy-seven volunteers in Greece. To date, the organisation has been completely consistent with its obligations towards the state and every year it is controlled by auditors. The state, although its obligation, has not stood on the side of all those young children who needed it to stand on their feet. Some people with private initiatives decided to do the work and the duty of a social state. This must be taken seriously and there must be immediate action, as it is a duty of society to protect the whole of society. In view of the above, you ask, Minister - we all ask as government - you do not ask, do not take it personally - the following: Firstly, will the Government finally make legal efforts to exempt those organisations from taxes, such as the 'Smile of the Child'? Secondly, what do you intend to do to encourage initiatives that have a positive impact on children, who are the future of this place, but also on society as a whole? I would like to say here, in order not to blame any organization, that the question refers to organisations, which from the property held by donations and bequests, have no income. They have been used exclusively to house their services, children, and everything else. Whoever has income has to pay the ENPIA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u3	The Minister has the floor, Mr Alexiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, you are absolutely right on the issue of the ENPI of legal persons carrying out this activity. It is something I have mentioned many times in the House. I have mentioned many times to the ENPIA about the "Smiling of the Child", to the ENPIA to be paid by the "World Ark" and a series of other legal persons of a non-profit character who exercise this charitable action. We will agree on that together. It is a big problem and we need to find a way to deal with it. I am not going to agree, of course, that 'in spite of the efforts to listen to the demands of the organization to the government and the oral assurances they have received'. With this organisation and other organisations we are in constant contact. We've explained what the problem is. We haven't refused to see them. We've discussed, we've exchanged mail, and we've been in touch. It's just that it's the framework in which we move. I will also not agree with the wording that 'the state, although its obligation, has not stood on the side of all those young children who needed it'. I think that the actions of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, especially Mrs Fotius, are concrete and exhaust all possibilities available, with unprecedented measures, especially during this period of economic closeness, to help these institutions and these children. On the substance now of the issue of HNPH for these legal persons, I will submit to you documents from the competent services, which clearly demonstrates that to legal persons governed by public law and private law of a non-profit nature, which are not part of general government bodies and are used exclusively for the performance of educational, educational, cultural, sporting, religious, charitable and public purposes, or are granted free of charge, they are not subject to HNPH and are exempted from HNPH. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Trif Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So it is clear that in these institutions buildings, which use for use, to meet their needs, are not subject to HISBIA. HISBIA is owned by buildings, which have to rent and have an income. These buildings fall under, whether they are empty or rented. I fully understand the problem that arises, because all these legal persons need to be strengthened, because they have an important role, not all, because many after audits have been identified. However, the majority exercises an important social task and cannot exercise it, precisely because they also have these tax obligations. We don't close our eyes to the problem. It's a real problem. However, we have said too many times that HPAI, like a number of other taxes, is not a political option for the government, it is a political necessity. We have clearly explained that we have had to adopt all these measures, not permanently, but on a temporary basis. It is clear that it was done through a negotiation process and we have explained as government what the way out of this whole process is. So as far as these legal persons are concerned, we are in contact with them as to how to deal with this problem and in my second speech I will be more detailed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Kammene, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much. Minister, I'm sure you're talking, because I'm talking to them too, and before I became a politician, I had very good relations with the "World Ark" and the "Smile of the Child" and I supported them by the companies. Our question here is that it needs to be raised, and the question is about getting a publicity, raising awareness of the state's legal services to do what they might have to do more quickly. We also need to see that too many publications have come out these days - and we have read them - for too many organisations, which have real incomes, which are legacies and donations. Real estate income is normal to fall under HISYA. We're not talking about this. There is also another issue that has arisen these days. I don't know if it's true or lying, but there's been a protest in my office, again, of a socially beneficial organization that was in the process of getting real estate donations and being cut off. They were cut off by donors themselves, because they knew that if they came to their possession, they would be subject to ENPIA and since they would not have the income to pay him next year, they did not accept the donation. Of course the donor preferred not to go ahead with the donation so that it would not be embarrassed. I hope in today's debate - and the Minutes should be made known, and I will communicate them wherever necessary - that we be clear about what legislation is, we must be fair horizontal throughout society. The state must help and show its tolerance for sensitivity, which many of these agencies have, whether it is about family, whether it is about drugs, either about broken families, children who do not have parents, or all the afflicted people in Greek society. Because we live in a crisis, the state should be a charity and not an enemy, that is to say, not chasing every taxpayer, especially the one who helps the public and the state - truly helps it - and it is a pillar that supports the Greek economy, where it may not be possible - at least in this period of time - the state. We need to be clear about what laws are, on the basis of what legislation, what Circular and what organisations are exempted. This must be clear to everyone, so that the effort made by this government, the efforts of the agencies and not to blame anyone is properly communicated. I don't want to raise anyone, we're all sensitive and more than anyone here who's parents. Children, yes, it is the future, but many children through the "Smile of the Child" have studied, they have become entrepreneurs, they have helped Greece, they have offered to this place. We must help them too and help them. In the end, of course, and I am closing down, we may also find private grants, as happened last year with HISPIA. The 43,000 euros last year in the "Smile of the Child" were paid by private sponsorship. I would prefer the state to be fair and to do what we have to do rather than to be given private sponsorship, which can also be found. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u8	It is clear - I have said it before and I want to make it clear - that the properties that these legal persons use, which play a very positive role in social and other actions, the properties they use to fulfil their purposes, the so-called 'usable' assets do not have an ENPY, are exempted from HISA. But real estate, which they have to earn income, that is, to rent it, has HISY. Of course, we are considering the problem at the political level, namely, bodies which must be strengthened by the state to carry out this work - with specific rules, of course, because I said that we have had problems in the past with some such bodies - who are also obliged to pay tax obligations, with money that will take away from their social action. This is something that concerns us politically and we are looking for solutions, exploring how to deal with it. But there, we have a technical problem. We have asked the competent authorities to give us the list of legal persons carrying out charitable activities. Unfortunately, in their tax records we do not have such a separation. We only have legal persons of a non-profit character. And we couldn't, of course, get through there to rid everyone of it, because it's too big a number. What we are doing in cooperation with Mrs Fotio is to be able to identify the legal persons who have specific charitable activities and with specific features. He informed me that about a thousand such legal persons are already registered. We will move on to 'certification' or control of these legal persons so that we know exactly what these charitable, social action is and which legal persons are generally non-profit-making. We will consider how we can tax these legal persons. You must be sure that you and the rest of the Members, however, will take advantage of everything, because we know on the one hand the important social work that these institutions have, and we know on the other hand the financial framework in which we are located. I wish we could get rid of these institutions! I wish we could reduce the tax burden! I wish we could have another tax system! We are forced for certain political reasons to have these tax arrangements and we are constantly striving to make them fairer, more proportionate. I think that the 2016 ENVY is a first response to all those who were destroying and presenting all these things that have been disguised, as they have been disproved in relation to the tax revenues of recent months, where the data, if you sit and see, are different. We do not describe our own'success story'. We don't triumph. We're just imprinting a match and an effort that's being made to return a page. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the sixth question under number 1181/23-8-2016 in the Second Cycle of the Halkidiki MP, the Salvation of the People's Association - Golden Dawn to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the "unconsciousness of the operators of purse seine vessels and the abandoned fishing vessels, which cause problems in the New Potida Canal". The Minister will answer the question. Mrs Vlacho, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the New Potidae Canal, which joins the Toronea with the Thermaic Gulf, the phenomenon of illegal anchoring of purse vessels - purse to the right of the Canal is observed. This irregularity of portrayal causes a permanent deterioration in the canal inclinations, resulting in a negative impact on the region's image. In addition, their owners, following the conclusion of their fishing activities in the Aegean Sea off the Thermaikos and Toronea Gulf, leave the twins at the bottom of the Canal. This inconsistency makes it difficult for fishermen to do their work, but it also prevents any other ship, as the abandoned strings are complicated in the propellers. Finally, on either side of the Potida canal there are two ports, where abandoned and corrosive vessels are found, which constitute an environmental risk of significant proportions. Is the Minister responsible asking: Firstly, why is there this tolerance to the irregular portrayal of the purse-seine vessels in the canal? Do you intend to deal definitively with this arbitrary action by the owners of these vessels? Secondly, what measures, on the one hand, to deal with the injurious practice of owners of purse in the fisheries sector and, on the other, to depreciate environmental risk from abandoned vessels in the port?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u11	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Vlacho, on the basis of your question, as I owed it, I have investigated the issue, which you highlight and you denounce. The official and responsible reports of the services of the Port House do not confirm the description you are asking. The New Potidae Canal is governed by provisions of the Special Port of Thessaloniki under number 67. There is a description of the data and rules, as well as the jurisdiction of the Port Authority of Thessaloniki. There, in the Canal, it is forbidden to anchorage and tie ships to any type of construction, other than fishing shelters in Potidae, which are located at the entrance and exit of the Canal. Any fishing activity shall also be prohibited. From what the agency has informed me, you have already - apart from your question, which, as you have a right, you have made - made oral complaints, which also concerned the ruthless attachment of vessels to the Canal by way of derogation from the regulation. According to the official reports, I tell you again, reports of services - on the same day, an autopsy was carried out - was not found what you complained about, but that they truly bind ships to the west shelter in accordance with the regulation. They also say the services that the attachment of ships to the canal station is objectively impossible, as there is no infrastructure to enable a ship to tie up there. And the sinks are not enough for that. It is also possible to attach any fishing vessel, as I have said, from the point of view of the Thematic Gulf, to the fishing shelter, from which the canal stadium begins. It is temporary and relates to the necessary operations, loading and unloading of fish, feed, supplies, etc. On the two fishing shelters available, one on the east side, on the Gulf of Toronea, and one on the west, on the Thermaikos, large fishing vessels, "great seiners". No risk for safe navigation has been identified. There is no infringement of international conflict-prevention regulations. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The port authority shall ensure that it performs regular checks on the canal fishing grounds. It shall record all portable vessels and where an infringement occurs, administrative penalties shall be imposed. As for abandoned vessels - and I shall end, if necessary, I can add anything else - that is vessels, which are not used systematically and regularly and are portrayed there for a long time. These are not abandoned. There are their owners, they just don't use them often. Abandoned is a vessel which, in fact, has no owner, has no care, has nothing and presents a risk of shipwrecking and contamination or of causing any other burden on this port shelter. Such vessels, which are abandoned and, in fact, in a significant number, in order to produce a problem, have not been recorded by the competent port authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Vlacho, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u14	Minister, I have proof and photographs. They're anchored at the station on the canal. With the anchoring, which have done on the stench, with the sea waveling, the breasts have fallen, landslides have fallen, trees and cars have fallen. Even the purse-seines remain on the canal and connected to the stadium. As for the spaghetti they have done this. I have visited Ms. Simosi, Head of the Board of Directors of the Department of the Hellenic Antiquities. He told me that ships are not allowed to tie up the Canal. After the purse, we have the lanches and then the small boats. They put strings, which they take from the archaeological sites they have plundered. They use them as an anchor so that their robots can stop. That's forbidden by law. Also, there are abandoned and submerged boats in both ports. I'll show you photos, see if you can verify what I say or not. I have addressed the services of Thessaloniki and the New Mundania. They told me they'd answer me, but no one's answered me. It's called something that I don't want to hurt. They said to me "Mrs. Vlacho, you won't do anything, because festives do a lot of work." What do they mean? I don't know. I believe and hope that, in your speech, the situation will be corrected. The Canal of Potidaea is the ornament of Halkidiki. There is a study to correct sidelines, pedestrians and lighting. That is the aim of Halkidiki Members. I'm figuring out the evidence I've given you about the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u15	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u16	Mrs Vlachos, I personally have no reason to question your allegations and I would ask you for these pictures, if they have a safe date, whether you can submit them in the Minutes or send them to the Ministry, as well as any other evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u17	I've already submitted them to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u18	In any case, what the services also confirm in writing is that no complaint has been made by the fishermen' s associations in the area for a long time, concerning the treatment of purse seines or problems in their propellers by ropes or anything else, which, of course, is presumptional and, in my joint experience, I have also heard, purse seines do not use spaghetti but nets.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u19	No, they use spaghetti.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u20	In any case, it is details that you realise that, at the level of my responsibility, I cannot have a clear opinion, but I am also prepared to look at the slightest detail, much more so since, as you say, there is also a risk of an archaeological site or anything else. I don't know if the President allows dialogue. It's not about me. In any case, please do everything you have, I would be happy to formally send it to the Ministry or through the House or directly. And of course, since there really is any excess of legality, be sure that the Ministry is present and will monitor, as it does every day for these kinds of issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the seventh under number 1199/30-8-2016 topical question by MP I Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the maritime tragedy in Aegina. Mr. Katasfadou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we were all witnessed on August 16 of the tragic accident in Aegina. Four people lost their lives and five others were seriously injured. Of course, the reason why I tabled to my question is not to replace the responsibilities of justice, but to see the responsibilities and omissions that the Port House has, of which you are political leaders, but also to discuss the unfortunate statements - as has been seen in the Greek - which you have tabled on that day and in the next few days. So what I would like to ask you, Minister, is why the port House has reached the place of the accident two and a half hours. It is a hot question that concerns not only the Egyptians, but also all the Greek citizens who have followed this tragic incident which has happened. The second point I would like to ask is why the Duende vessel, which was responsible for this accident, was not accompanied by the port authorities at the Port Authority of Aegina. And the third thing I would like to ask you is how the passengers who were on the Duende speedboat were not accompanied by the port authorities at the Port Authority of Aegina, but by themselves they were taken to another port and from there, they followed a road and came by themselves to the Port Authority of Aegina. I dare tell you that one of those who are alleged to be passengers - because they will be judged by justice - has even left Aegina and has been presented a long time later. These are three basic questions to which you would like to give us an answer, because as you said "the port has done its job perfectly and I cannot understand what else the port could do in this case". And the second thing I would like to ask you is in relation to your statements, Minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You stated that the operator of the turf was experienced, knowledgeable and possessed many years of a turmoil diploma. Your role was not that, Minister. I don't disagree that you should be presenting in Aegina. Well done, it was a naval accident. Not because it was your constituency, but at any point in the country where something similar had been done, you should be present. From that point on, however, at least your statements about the experience and ability of the driver were unfortunate, and that seemed the next day they took his licence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u23	The Minister has the floor. Come on, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, I sincerely appreciate - and I should first of all like to say this - your reference, in particular, to your question, is precisely to answer serious questions, as you say, and to clarify, as a minimum obligation on the victims and millions of tourists visiting our country every year. Below, before you put your questions, you propose a phrase that I really appreciate. You say, "With absolute respect for the memory of the victims and their families." I say this precisely because you are aware of the region - you are a Piraeus MP and islands and a regular visitor to Aegina - and you know people and things, you did not fall under the mistake of your fellow Members of the New Democracy, who in turn did not refer to the respect of the dead or to other things, but they followed - what you do not do - a tactical policy of exploitation - I will say it'speaker' - of misguided publications, which have already brought me, Mr Flamouraris, Mr Stathaki and other SYRIZA Members, as passengers on board the fatal vessel, which has caused this tragedy, on the speedboat 'Duende'. This misery is not followed by you and that is what honors you. This, indeed, like me and all of us, shows respect for the memory of the dead and the suffering of their own people. From there on, I have to answer in detail within the days for all this, and I will do it with the questions that have been tabled. Among other things, as the pan-Hellenic one knows, I ask, and why he obtained a degree in 2014 in the case of the Aegina tragedy! Therefore, I will respond in detail and systematically in writing, because it is a large number of data to be presented. But I'm saying it's not right to let you know. Since the incident was recorded, according to evidence which is not evidence of the case - and I have not been involved in the case-file, nor have I attempted to influence the investigation, and I will prove that, since we have no reason to cover anyone and anything in this case, the opposite - on 12.48th of August, according to the Port Authority's logbook, the port administration accepted, for the first time through the Police Directorate of Nafplio, a citizen, who was on the Monastery and saw the incident, the general news that there is a collision of ships, without further details. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] Immediately, the process of informing the port manager, the delinquent, the head of the port police, was initiated and urgently ordered to join all available personnel in the service. A mandate was also given to all the adjacent vessels operating on voyages after the necessary crossing took place. At the same time, the Aegina Health Centre, the private hospital law of Aegina, became mobilised and invited to all doctors. This was done at the port office at that time, because the immediate reason for human life. A large part of the responsibility of the port authorities was then the dismantling of the bodies of the dead, the treatment of the injured, the transfer of them to Athens and the recording of everything. From 12.48, seven minutes later, at 12.55, they depart by road to Perdica and arrive at 13: 15 ́. There they are immediately seizing the process and have already begun to bring the land and body of the dead and injured. But one of them, the ports, boards a private ship and arrives at the scene of the incident. The speedboat, the inflatable, available at the Port Authority of Aegina with number 334 at 12.56, eight minutes after the first notification, starts departure procedure. You know, a ship needs a process before it leaves. That ship wasn't moving. Its arrival is then recorded and then before 13.30, that is, in less than half an hour, it has been accompanied by the towing of the Duende vessel, the speedboat that caused this tragic event, in the port of Aegina. It was accompanied by this ship. These are recorded not in the case-file - they may, of course, also be there, but they are not from there - but from the official information of the Port Authority of Aegina.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u25	Minister, I would ask you to be brief, because you have covered twice as much time as your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u26	I shall conclude with that, Mr President. From then on, since 13.30' with mobilisation of the Port Authority's Operations Centre, the "601", the "607", the offshore ship, the "050", groups of special forces with equipment and helicopters. The OHIM also made available Super Puma. From 13.30 ́, then successively from Poros, because the process was still open for a long time. This process lasted forty-eight hours, according to the existing obligation to investigate and save potential new missing persons. Nobody knew how many people were missing. No one had an official record of how many people landed in the Lanza, who moved the world from Perdos to the Monastery. There is therefore no delay in this. On the contrary, the whole of the Port Corps and all the headquarters and the district commander of the Port Corps, the Vice-Admiral Mr. Dounis, along with the offshore ship, arrived on the spot as soon as possible. In my second speech, I shall refer to the rest. I am sorry, Mr President, but that is a delicate matter, and that is why I have been delayed. Thank you very much for your understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u27	Good, Minister. Here, Mr Katsafad, you have the floor for your dentistry. And I ask you to be within the time frame set.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u28	You will allow me, Mr President, to take some more time, because unfortunately, Mr Minister, of the seven minutes that you have been speaking, the three minutes you have spoken about the questions which I have put to you and the four other minutes you have made opposition criticism in the New Democracy. I would therefore like to tell you that I do not believe that there is a representative of the people, I do not believe that there is a Member in this Chamber who has not respected the victims and the memory of the dead and their families. From there on, Minister, there is a problem. I think you haven't been well informed. The vessel '334, as you say, belonging to the Port Authority of Aegina, the last time it was fueled was on July 18th. The information provided by the port authorities of Aegina was that it did not have fuel to return immediately, because the route was not made on 10 August. And I come to something else, Minister. The port in the area, in Aegina, has a ship. And I come to the general question: there were over eighty thousand citizens in Aegina. If there were a tragic event - as it did - what would be the mobilisation that the Port House would have on its boat? He didn't have fuel! That was the excuse they told the Egyptians. And at that time he was refueling, Minister! That's the one. Secondly, very clearly half an hour after the incident, when the port office was informed, he went a jeep of the Port House with two men in Perdika. One, as you say, was disembarked on a ship in Perdica and went to the area where the tragic incident took place, but approached the Duende. And here there is a question, Minister, because the big problem, as I have told you, is not that I come here to discuss criminal responsibilities and try to rob the debt and the work that justice has to do. So I ask you this, Minister. Did this porter, the porter who went to the area and who went next to the Duende, or did he not have to accompany the Duende and do not have to leave the inside? Shouldn't he have or shouldn't he, if he'd put the "Duende" waters, put them on the ship that went there and take them to the port office? Because they went unaccompanied, Minister. We cannot sit down and talk about things that should have been done automatically. I'm telling you, the passengers allegedly went to the port office alone, and you tell me that the port has done their job well. That is not the case, Minister. I'm not a veteran of intent or a trial of intent. I'm not trying to find mysteries or constructions. But I quote the facts as they are. The port ship didn't have gasoline. At that time, then, they were fueling it with gasoline. That's the one. Secondly, what you said - and you are right - is that the port jeep was taken away, one of the two employees of the Port House went to the sea region, went to the Duende, asked who the passengers were, told him they were in the cabin and that they were panicked. He didn't go down, he didn't go in "Duende" to see who the passengers were and he left them, and you tell me he did the port right and that you were there all the time during the preliminary investigation. I ask: With all these unanswered questions, with all this mythology that has developed around who were passengers, should a SAD be ordered or should not be ordered? That is the question, Minister. Then there are other questions that you don't just bear the responsibility, your Government I mean. Of course, you are responsible for the fact that, for a year and a half, we have not done anything in a tourist and naval country in order to be able to solve pathogens for decades, as are we, as are those who have ruled this place. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I ask you something, Minister: is it possible, following complaints from residents of Perdica, but also from observers, that the same thing was done with other vessels last day, on the day before, which made dangerous manoeuvres, has not been presented to the region by a port guard? It's possible, when there are daily routes...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Katzafados, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u30	May I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u31	How much can I allow you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u32	One second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u33	It's been four minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u34	Is it possible, when daily routes are made, which have a specific Lanza hour, that we do not know and that there is no control over how many people are invading these Lanzas? So, if there was a maritime accident, a tragic naval accident, because a lager instead of twenty or twenty-two people who fit in the lancza, he'd put forty? Is there control of the state? I tell you that it is not just you who have responsibility. The responsibility is time-consuming, but don't tell me the port did its job right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u35	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry and I would ask you to limit yourself to the three minutes you are entitled to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Katzafados, I don't know, but I guess the good words I told you in my first talk didn't work out. You have plunged yourself in the same direction, raising tons and making a clear attempt to use the tragedy politically. Control is legitimate, but we need to pay attention and respect for the limits. Our government and I personally have regulated by law the possibility of facilitating the ships of the Port House and of supplying fuel beyond competitive and other procedures. In any case, the ship of the Port Corps arrived there in the space in the shortest possible time, but not two and a half hours later, as you said in your first speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u37	One and a half hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u38	One-and-a-half. In twenty minutes it's arrived on presumption.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u39	One-and-a-half-half-one of the twelve that happened until you got up to date is one-and-a-half-hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Catafado, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u41	After I tell you that at 12.50" the tragic accident occurs and at 13.30" there is a registered escort to the towing of the turf towards the port of Aegina from the area. So what are you telling me? But don't go into the details now, because you've already been involved in the own investigation procedure, which I do not want to go into. I described data. I did not make a judgment and, in fact, a total of whether there are any or no responsibilities. They have not been registered by service, they have not been recorded in the investigation procedure, I have not been invited by the interrogator, they have not sent me any labels that there are omissions that need to be checked and indeed responsible. If such issues arise, we first will control everything. However, it is not possible to change the Minister to an interrogator, when the interrogation exists, opens and goes. From this point of view, therefore, all these issues, namely what should, in what circumstances, one or the other, have allowed the investigation procedure to regulate them. The prosecution has every right and obligation, I would say, to put all the questions and to do so. So we have to be lower. Now, why did I go to Aegina? I was in Leonidios and the Chief of the Port Corps briefs me on the tragic incident. I didn't think about it at all. Mr. Georgiadis, the Vice-President of your party asked you: "Why was Mr. Dritsas fighting?" Yeah, I got pissed and went. I couldn't stay to bathe in Leonidi when this tragedy has happened. To get there, I have done nothing but to coordinate - already, the time was afternoon - from my own point of view of responsibility, all those actions for the injured, for the continuation of the rescue investigation. I saw the crew of the ships and the men of Special Forces. I have dealt with all these issues in my responsibility and with the Port Authority, which was responsible for the preliminary investigation procedure, all I said to him was for nothing to do with this case. None.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u42	If you didn't say so, I mean...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u43	He would have done that anyway, but already a number of rumours had begun to circulate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u44	Minister, please, finish it up. Mr. Katasfadou, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u45	I'm done. PASOK after my interview with SKAI, Mr. Lyritzis, to which I mentioned that it is not just the licensing procedure, which here involves your party and PASOK and ND, in what the permits were given...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u46	Do you do something to change that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u47	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u48	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u49	I'm telling you, don't interfere. That is exactly where I mentioned deportingly both the driving to land and the driving to the sea, the behaviour of a driver or governor who wants to have himself, as I said, a bully and a leaf of plumb and the sea, and I said that with the experience and knowledge I have in the Perdicus - Monastery pass it is not a high speed. It's a narrow passage. Even swimmers, bold ones, could meet but there are plenty of boats, small and large, and it does not mean speed. An experienced commander, therefore, is presumption - not from the jurisprudence, but from the common information he used on the island - it is not understood to show diligence due to it and run with the strength of a high-speed ship in this area. It is inconceivable that there should be no regulation on narrow passages, that speedboats should be allowed to run at the same speed as they will be in the sea. That is what I said in my answers and the PASOK press issued a statement that they have intervened in the preliminary investigation and in favour of the defendant, and that is where the specs of all of you began, and of the journalistic staff and politicians.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u50	Minister, please. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u51	This, then, is not respect for the memory of the dead. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move to the next timely question, I have an announcement to make: MEP Ms Christophilopoulou asks for a short-day absence from 12-9-2016 to 13-9-2016 due to her transfer abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u53	The House therefore approved the requested permission. It will not be discussed, due to the absence of the Minister responsible abroad, the third with number 1205/31-8-2016, a top-level question by Evia MP Evia of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Finance, on the "scanning sale of TRAINOSE" against the incomplete price of EUR 45 million. Also, it will not be discussed due to lack of responsibility - the Ministry of Finance - the first under number 122/5-9-2016 for a timely question from the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the "complete inertia to deal with the "grey leases" in private accommodation leases. We enter the fourth with number 1207/1-9-2016 topical question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health, on the "no policy in defending the health of citizens". The Minister will answer Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, I would not have gone through this question if I hadn't been worried about the way the Ministry made public announcements dealing with issues such as the reappearance of malaria in the country and of course with its results, in my opinion, unsuccessful treatment of seasonal influenza recently. So my reason for asking this question is that John Hopkins, one of America's largest universities, has published a major study in America, where, as a third cause of death in America, he considers medical errors. BMJ posted them, pounding the alarm. It strikes the alarm, saying that this is mainly due to the fact that the guidelines are not complied with. That means everyone should be careful about it. I will invoke another study, the first that was announced this year by the American College of Cardiology, which says about the following terrible things. Again, I am talking about America, where the laws on medical ethics are stricter - if you like - by our own. After pass surgery or cardiology invasive methods, for five years they have been following what is happening. And what did they find? They found that in the multivascular coronary artery disease, staging surgery had six times more deaths than normal surgery. When we say "death," we mean death. We don't mean work, falsified results, etc. We mean registration with a name. So the question is what policy does the Ministry of Health, to see what is going on in the country, not only in the cardiology I have brought as an example, not to extend to other specialities, but to all specialities? Is there, then, the mechanism, the agency that controls, not the individual, but the way it is in America, in hospitals, in private centers, in whatever files and about what is happening? Do we know today, for example, how many stents have been planted in the country? Do we know how many of them live in five years? There are no scientific work at all. The Ministry, however, must, if there are no scientific work, organise studies, because this is an objective essential to life and death. When, in the previous question, the Minister and the honourable Member were concerned about five to six deaths in an accident, you realise that when one sees such data in the global medical community, one should be concerned about what is going on in his own state. The question therefore does not mean either opposition or criticism of the Minister, but is intended to consider what is going to happen or what is going on in the country at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u55	The Minister, Mr. Xanthos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u56	Colleague, we have discussed these matters before. I have answered with very substantiated evidence that the climate of generalised insecurity for the public health services of the country and for the management of the health problems and citizens of our country and the migrants and refugees currently in Greece are in complete contrast with reality. There is a systematic effort by trade unions, politicians and journalists to create a picture of general insecurity in society in terms of health issues. ‘The health system is falling apart. Citizens die helpless outside the intensive. There is a sanitary bomb.’ Others say there is a sanitary minefield. ‘There are epidemics. There is a disaster.’ I think this road is slippery. I am not saying that the climate of your position was this today, but they really need to think of some, who have institutional roles too, that they cannot play with these things. Public health is a very serious case of becoming a vulgar political spice and confrontation. The country is sanitaryly safe. The scientific and institutional representations of Europe are attested. I'm talking about the European Infection Control Centre, the ECDC. The US ECDC has come and in its report there are no such problems. Of course, we are in constant contact with and technical cooperation with the World Health Organisation. There is a question, therefore, whether the WHO guidelines are complied with, if scientific data are to be investigated in that country. Obviously there are shortcomings and we have a huge problem - you know that very well too - data recording in the country. However, at this time we are strengthening the tools, so that we can actually obtain reliable databases and with this data we can also make the necessary political planning. It was completed after a story that lasted for many years - I think over decades ago and which had also been spent too much money, if I remember well over 6 million euros - the so-called old 'health map' or 'health map' has been completed at this time. His new name is "Allas" health. It's a very advanced information system. He became intact for the Greek State by the Ministry of Information and the corresponding EOPY office. We did not instruct any outside supplier to upgrade it and modernise it to us. We now have a very good tool with epidemiological data, with medical data, with markers of mortality, infant mortality and an image of the geographical distribution of health needs across the country. Also, we have a system called BI, which is a system that takes information from hospital information systems and enables the Ministry, in real time, to have a picture of gaps, to have a picture of the flow of payments, to have an overview of the coverage of human resources, to have an overall picture of the daily life of the health system. We have therefore made the necessary contributions to this. What we have done, however, is, above all, that we are striving with reverence and respect to implement the core guidelines of the World Health Organisation. These are: firstly, the universal access of people to health services. We did this by law 4368. With this law it has become a huge incision, covering the care of uninsured people and establishing for the first time in the country the view that health is a right that the state must give it to everyone regardless of their income, insurance and work situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u57	Minister, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u59	You have the time of your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u60	Allow me two minutes, because otherwise the unity of the intervention is lost. The World Health Organisation's second guideline is a shift in primary care for prevention. This is being implemented in this period with a very well-processed plan to reorganise primary care, a new model that we will even have the opportunity, using European resources, to promote not in a pilot run, as we were planning at first, but in a generalised application in 50 urban areas of the country, developing over two hundred and fifty new decentralised structures with the family doctor and the health team. These are the directions of the World Health Organisation. Third direction: Focus on mental health and dependencies, which is the emerging threat to global health. We have a bill ready - you know, we believe we will bring it into September with the beginning of October - for the administrative reform of mental health services. It will be a very great effort to revive the vision of psychiatric reform that it has put in place and improve the service of people with mental health problems. Of course, the crucial issue of emphasis on public health. Because, in fact, the refugee situation has put new data in the country, our first priority and the greatest concern were to create mechanisms for adequate response to any problems that were encountered, which were expected to occur. In fact, at this time, we have managed to identify, in time, any cases of infections, not to disperse either the refugee population or the wider social fabric, to be dealt with effectively and to receive credit from the European CDC. Also, to work with dignity and high-headedness with all institutions. That's what this government does. The country is sanitaryly safe. Of course, we can discuss as much as you want ways of improving better, better scientific reorganisation of the system, the creation of new data and new policy tools. I think, however, that we all ought, especially in public health, to show the requisite responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, you will also give me some time, because this is a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u63	I'm sorry to interrupt. No one realizes that this is a serious matter. However, the Rules of Procedure also provide for a specific timetable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u64	The Minister spoke for seven minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u65	The Minister spoke for more than seven minutes. I do not deny the tolerance shown by the Bureau in any event. You know that very well, too, as Vice-President. However, I would ask that we should not be flattered, because other Members are also waiting for the timely questions they have.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u66	No, Mr President, I will be precise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u67	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u68	Remove my time, please. Minister, you must know that I have done two and a half years, and I have done a non-parliamentary minister. I have been chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs for five years and have dealt with these issues. I would be very concerned if I were you, and I would not be concerned. I have to tell you this: On 5 August, President Obama on a national network appeared and said - see CNN - that the Zika virus was invaded in America: 'I have four cases in Florida. I'm counting on an extension of cases. I'm doing a more general check on the transfusions in America. I'm ordering. I'm saying there's gonna be an extension of cases. I am not reassuring". Obama, August 5th. Yesterday he said: 'Zika virus, a case in Malaysia'. Because as the world is today, America is not far from Malaysia and Greece. Question: Are we concerned about the Zhika virus? Has anything happened, or are we waiting for the first incident? When I was the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, I said at European Parliament level that malaria was invaded in Europe and I am talking about 2011. Forty-two cases in Greece of mosquito bite to Greek citizens, not the imported one, and I asked for help. I said 'The invasion of Greece is an invasion of Europe, you have the problem, we now have it'. Help, technocratic, was given. The next year from forty-two cases we had twenty and the next ten and the next zero. Although the cases increased, although the immigrants increased, despite the fact that the migrants' bodies increased, because they fought properly, in 2014 we had zero cases, in 2015 they reappear, in 2016 they continue and do not know how far they will reach by the end of the year. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I, if I were Minister, would not say that I was quiet, I would say that I am very concerned. This is the thing in history, how matters are dealt with. As far as the first question is concerned, I would expect you to tell me that, you know, we have put so many cents from the funds in the country, so many sick people live today from the people we put, we do not know what others died of, there has been no study. We plan new studies, one, two, three, four. Let's help you, if you want, on this, in technocratically. Well, that's the answer. Telling me everything's fine in the country, okay, I'm glad to hear it, but I'm not at all reassured when I see those numbers, which are generally. If I don't take you to others, I'm taking you to myself. I raised the issue of Ebola in 1995 in Europe, as a Minister for Health, and do you know what my fellow ministers told me then? 'What are you talking about, these are issues which concern sub-Saharan Africa, we are Europeans, we are Americans.' Ebola's been here in twenty years. So that's not the right thing to do. Tactical is that we are worried about nothing, tactics are the right thing to do, and that is what we see others applying. Would the Prime Minister or the President of the Republic ever go out here to say that we have an incident with Zhika virus? I am not saying that I demand it at all, but the Minister for Health must go out first and say 'I'm worried', as Obama said. That's the right health policy. I am telling you this because, because we had a debate on flu, I then sent a note - for it to be in the Minutes - about what had to be done and not have these numbers in the flu. It's in the Minutes of the House. Why did I send it? Because if you don't, next year's things will be worse, they may be just as well. But I sent it. I sent it to get it - which I hope I will not bring it and get it all done well, but I say, if they do not - and I say 'here, that's what I said'. You need to know, Mr. Xanthi, that I'm a technocrat and I don't come to the House to make the politician nor to exploit life and death. Because if I wanted to take advantage of him, I know many ways to take advantage of him. Keep this in mind. Please take this into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u69	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Kremastine, neither I nor any of the Ministry's political leadership have claimed that all things work perfectly in the health system. We have barely recognized the problems, the uncovered needs, the pathogens, the distortions, the difficulties that exist in the daily lives of people and workers in the health system. What we are saying and proves with projects is that the political direction has changed, that in practice there is a priority in public care in that country with increased funding for hospitals, with recruitment packages for permanent staff, with the reorganisation of the procurement system, with the development of primary care. I say this, and of course, on public health issues, we must all be very careful and very responsible in our attitude. Of course we're in a period of danger. Modern world, Western societies and obviously climate change and population movements and the migratory wave of this period create additional risks. It is another thing to recognise the danger, to take the measures you need to resort to a populist hysteria that plays with xenophobic reflexes, which you know at this time throughout Europe have favourable social conditions. On malaria, see how we handled this. What did we say? We didn't hide the cases. We have even said publicly that new domestically transmitted cases are expected in the next period. That's what the epidemiological forecast says. But we did not come out, Mr Kremastine, to say that in 2010 and 2011 or 2011 and 2012 that you - your political space - were in power, that we had an accident explosion, and it was your fault, because there were these cases. There's a variation...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u71	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u72	Watch out. This is a PASOK announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u73	I didn't do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u74	...which says scientific inaccuracy, Mr. Kremastine. Do you know what the PASOK announcement says?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u75	Minister, what I'm saying is true.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u76	‘The recurring malaria while grubbing up in 2014 in the country is due to SYRIZA’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u77	I won't apologize for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u78	Watch out. Leave me now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Kremastein, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u80	So you cannot make political criticism and, as you say, well-meaning, I accept it. It cannot be done by you personally and by your political area with inaccuracies. The malaria has been grubbed out in the country since 1974, Mr. Kremastine. Since then there have been and every year there have been sporadic cases due to imported transmission. Indeed, since 2009, we have had a record of transmissible incidents because of the presence of an immigrant population in the country from endemic areas. This annual incidence has a variation: sometimes it reaches forty, sometimes it reaches zero and sometimes it reaches four that we have this year. We hope to have no more, but most likely we have as the epidemiologists say. This does not mean that SYRIZA has brought malaria back to the country, because that is what you said, Mr Cremastine, as a political area.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u81	Please, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u82	I'm not saying you said that. I have a statement from Mrs Christophilopoulou of PASOK. There you go! I'll testify to her in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u83	I've asked a specific question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u84	Look, with these issues, we won't play. Either we have a serious scientific and technocratic debate, or we'll have populism. Pick.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Blonde. Before we move to the next timely question, I would like to inform the House that the first question under number 1210/5-9-2016 of the first cycle of the MP Kosanis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Theosmos to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the protection of retrospectively paid pensions, will not be debated as a result of an impediment by the relevant Minister. Also, the second question under number 1211/5-9-2016 of the new Republic MP Carditsa, Konstantinos Tsiras, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning increases in farmers' insurance contributions will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister responsible. Due to a blockade by the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection, the sixth question under number 1204/30-8-2016 will not be discussed for the first time in the first cycle of the Potamian MP, Jason Fotilla, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on increasing infraction with the civilian victim. Similarly, there will be no debate on the fifth under No 1208/2-9-2016 topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks Mr. George Lazarides to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction regarding the mergers of police departments in Thessaloniki. The second question, under number 1206/31-8-2016, of the second question of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning the "blond action by Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace" will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Kotzias, due to the absence of Athens. Finally, the fourth question under number 1216/5-9-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning measures to absorb all children at the children's stations, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction. The fifth will be discussed under No 1215/5-9-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the conversion of the unemployment benefit to a labour order. The timely question by my colleague will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Urania Antonopoulou. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Let's go to another 'infinite' disease in the capitalist system, for which you give 'aspirins', that of unemployment. Minister, a few days ago you announced another OAED programme and presented it as a new, supposedly innovative, that of converting unemployment benefit to a job, an innovation which has indeed surprised the representatives of industrialists and other rural organisations. They did not expect this step to go further with the contributions of the workers, whose purpose is to protect the unemployed with this low allowance, which has become so low from the cuts that have been decided and which you maintain, which the former governments of the New Democracy and of the PASOK have in fact not dared, for that is why their great satisfaction. The unemployment benefit, based on the labor and sweat of thousands of workers, is converted into direct support for employers. It is also added to the pit of billions of euros of the programmes that have been implemented over the past few years and have become the tool to secure a cheaper labour force. It facilitated the abolition of full and stable work, the abolition of collective agreements, enhanced flexibility, abolished labour and insurance rights. As the director of the OAED said in an interview, the net impact of the programmes on employment was insignificant. So your government comes and does this at a time when unemployment has been 'collapsed' at high levels, where the protection of the unemployed and their families has been nullified. We have reached this minimum aid for the unemployment benefit with the EUR 360 paid only 10% of the unemployed, to be given by the Government of the'second-time left' handful to employers, to increase their turnover and profits, since the people who produce wealth will not be paid by the employer, but by the contributions retained by the workers who, as I said, are intended to subsidise them during the period of their unemployment. This is a challenge, Minister. This design of you, together with the so-called nonexistent or so-called commitments made by employers, but also the unfounded creation of fixed jobs, opens a new line of voluntary departure production that will then be "baptized" for unemployed people. The conversion of the allowance into a payroll creates a new blow to sectoral wages because, like you said in your interview, Minister, you will ensure the minimum wage. Not the industry, but the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Katsotis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u88	I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, you will contribute to the employer's effort to lower sectoral wages to the levels of the national collective labour agreement. We are therefore asking whether you will insist on this provocative programme to strengthen employment and, in fact, whether you will leave the unemployed unprotected, even this 10% that is currently protected by this unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u89	Mrs Antonopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. I would first like to thank Mr Kattotis for giving me the opportunity to address this very important issue. Our government, at the very beginning of the day, has put at the centre of its attention and its policy to supporting the people who have been through unemployment, and we have set ourselves as planning and aiming to rationalise the few resources that our country has today, so that we can strengthen human resources on the one hand and, on the other, make the necessary contributions so that new recruitment can be made. You mentioned a lot of things. I will not even use the answer I had prepared in the question you tabled. I will, however, respond in particular to the points you have raised today. We support - you said - industrialists. We support the backbone of the Greek economy, which is the very small businesses. That is why we have said that this programme is aimed at those micro-enterprises that have from zero today up to nine or ten employees. These are micro-enterprises. We did it precisely because we do not want to support the large companies that are able to recruit and we do not want to have branches. We were very careful about that. You spoke of'spirins'. Listen. With the "spirins" that our Government has "given", it has managed in a very difficult environment to reduce the number of unemployed by ten thousand, to increase the employed by a hundred and twenty thousand. This is not because we have Brain Drain and people are leaving the workplace. Because if you see, the workforce has grown at the same time. So employment has increased, the number of unemployed has fallen, and we are doing this precisely because we are using all the possible tools we have in a streamlined way. You referred to full and stable work. We have received not only a huge unemployment rate, but elastic relations that we are trying to change. We therefore have in the first seven months of 2016, the first time since 2010, a change in the downward trend. We're not happy where we've arrived. We've got a long way ahead of us. But the aspirins you're saying are trying to put this little and constant pacemaker into the labour market. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing.]] I'm gonna need another minute. You have spoken of the unemployed who will not now be able to receive their allowance. Who said that? We give the unemployed a choice. There's no need. We say that anyone who wants to participate and give the 360 euros as support to an operation to hire him. For example, he may have had an unemployment benefit for five months or twelve. Maybe man's in the 11th month. We say we call the eleventh and twelfth, hire you to an operation, and provide the Ministry of Labour in addition to supporting this job, having ensured that three months before recruitment there has been no redundancies in this particular job for which it is recruited. Over the 12 months, which we have secured, there will be no dismissal and there is also a requirement that the businessman should then keep him for three months. If the unemployed or not are looking for this, that is, not to limit it to EUR 360 but to be able to have a job, it will appear. He's not with the minimum wage compulsory. We give 360 euros. What's gonna appear like a trend inside the market, we'll see. That's why we didn't say we were making a law and opening it to all the unemployed. We said ten thousand to see how it goes, to make our checks and finally to see if we are responding to the needs of the unemployed. We support micro-enterprises, we support the reintegration of the unemployed, those who want and think they want to join this Programme. Why do I say 'those who wish', Mr Papoutsis? Why am I saying that? Because when someone enters unemployment, there is a time he is looking for a better job that wants to go to an IKK to change his qualifications, who wants to be able to join a small-trained programme that he thinks will lead him to a permanent recruitment. We could never make it compulsory as a government. We're saying we're giving the alternative. There is a chance that this programme will not be absorbed, that they do not want to be involved. We'll drop it. In these difficult circumstances, the Greek economy together with the private sector - I will tell you - has managed to create new jobs. Every time we try to support the unemployed in the labour market, you come and say why we do this, because we do that, because we give'spirins'. So, what do we do? Shall we sit with crossed hands and wait when the lust growth is coming? We're obligated! We've done it on every program. I am delighted to come to a plenary, to present to you exactly what we have done and how we have achieved these results. They didn't do it on their own. Our government has tried and our government has succeeded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u91	Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u92	Madam Minister, I think you are again causing your answer. What is the trend we know very well: it is the deepest exploitation of workers, unpaid work. That is the trend that exists and that is what you are strengthening it. What you say: “What should we do? Should we wait for growth?" No, protect the unemployed. Even the euro of what the worker pays should not give to the employer. Not even euros! So far you have continued this provocative reinforcement. Challengeful reinforcement! Let's see if you're talking about small and medium-sized enterprises. So what does your commander, Mrs Carmesini, say in her interview? ‘The relationship between small and medium-sized enterprises and OAEDs may have facilitated the first to finance, at State costs, those who had opted for or the insurance contributions of their relatives, who would have worked in an undertaking or without the grant, but the net impact of the programmes on employment was insignificant’. So the OAED incriminates small and medium-sized enterprises for the failure of the previous programmes. Where does he go? It is geared to the large businesses that want to make the programmes, as usual. Check out the "CARREFOUR"! What programs has she got, Mrs. Antonopoulou? Look at that! Big business! Not from you now, I'm not saying yours. From before. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Listen and don't shout.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u93	Come on. Don't interrupt. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u94	Here you're subsidising the unemployed with 10%! Unemployed people from 1.280,000 receive only 10%. Aren't you embarrassed to say that you're protecting the unemployed? And you only give 10%, with conditions like that that everyone's out? So what is your policy here, that you have to protect the unemployed? Did you take other measures for the unemployed? We have made a law proposal since March 2016 for the unemployed. You still have not brought it to Parliament to discuss it here and see whether there are any measures to relieve the unemployed or not. See if you want to take these measures or deny and you're in the same direction as the previous ones. Let us see if you are in the direction that the European Union has taken to support employment in every way, so that through the OAED, with the instrument of the OAED - such as the Local Employment Pacts that you have taken first and foremost at the time - you will hit the sectoral collective labour agreements, hit the full and stable job, widen the flexible forms of employment. Because this has been done so far, and this is still happening both with your own policy and with your programmes and with the support - as you say - of work and not unemployment. Protection of the unemployed! That's what's important today. And you've gone out of all these lines and logic to protect the unemployed. And this 10% soon will be unprotected. And let that be their choice. The choice is a policy and this option will be generalised so that this contribution that is being retained today also goes to the turnover and profits of businesses.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u95	Mrs Antonopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u96	Thank you. Let me not talk about free access to health. Let me not talk about the free movement of the unemployed in public transport and what else we have done. I'm going to focus on the essence of what you're saying. You have heard the words of the director of the OAED, Ms. Karamesini. In fact, you're putting me in a difficult position because I didn't expect you to make a selective secondment of speeches made by Mrs. Karamesini and present it as her position of what is going on today. Listen, Mrs Karamesini, with whom I work very closely - as you know, she is a body I supervise - said what you mentioned about previous programming. What we have changed and said 'ordinary streamlining' lies precisely in this. What have we done, precisely so that one does not hire one of his relatives, precisely because in a similar effort previously made in 2011 there was a restriction that the company should - whatever business not the micro-enterprises, the backbone of the Greek economy, those who have been hurt and suffered the maximum - have been hired for twenty-four months? Hey, there's no such business, my lord, today! So no one came in to be able to hire through this program. It was inert, no one was going. That's what Mrs. Karamesini says. We come, then, piloted to make a correction. You still say it's only 10%. It's 10% because we've received it. Have you noticed the redesign that we did in terms of public work? That the world is now working for eight months, and that is why the forty-three thousand people who will be recruited through this programme - the 'aspirin' that you say - then, after eight months of work with all labour rights, will be able to take the unemployment fund? Tell me, when we have a hundred and a hundred and thirteen thousand today, and suddenly you'll have another forty-three, won't you raise 10%? 'Aspirin' gives us once again by Mrs Antonopoulou'. Listen, these interventions are aimed solely at helping the unemployed to have choices, not having horizontal training programmes, as we have so far, but sectorally, to be able to reintegrate into the labour market. In this job is not the job of one, it is not the job of Antonopoulou alone, nor is it the Ministry of Labour. It is the job of all the ministers and those who are next to me, who support the entrepreneurship of young people, who are doing a series of interventions. For the results I have spoken about, namely the fall in unemployment - I repeat - it is not one's job. It is the work of a government, which, organised, coordinates, aims to support the unemployed and reintegration into work as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mrs Antonopoulou. We continue with the third with no. 1209/2-9-2016 topical question of the second question of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on measures to compensate for the break-up course of the Greek economy. The Minister will answer Mr. Stathakis. Mr Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as the relevant Minister of Finance and Development, the Ministry is taking initiatives concerning entrepreneurship. We all agree now that ELSTAT in June is talking about 0.9% recession. And Mr. Juliarakis now, in his statement, accepts that these elements of ELSTAT are correct and the government accepts them. If you have any other information, I'd ask you to tell us. At the same time, the government passed a development law. You said all the ministerial decisions would have been made within three months. We told you that they were time-consuming and we expect you to hear whether even this development law, which would give two hundred and fifty thousand jobs in your Secretary-General, is ready and able to present their proposals. The second is that, although there was at first a possibility with the Juncker package, we would like you to inform us where it is at the moment. In fact, there is an operation that, on its own, mainly made the agreement, but we would like you to tell us where the other proposals are. The third issue is the new ESDP 2014-2020, where you, in your reply, said - and you understand - that projects may have been launched, but at the moment they will be very difficult to get over 500 or 600 million. And I think in these numbers I'm saying, I'm getting off the thresholds, because right now they're on schedule around 243. I don't know how much money can be absorbed and I'd like you to tell us. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done with this, and I'll come back later. The fourth issue is the major investment, which the Ministry of Development well or badly - may not be exactly your responsibility - plays an important role. A great investment is the Greek one, which, unfortunately, Mr. Tsakalotos has not given us the pleasure of coming to Parliament for eight months to speak to us. He'll have other, serious jobs to do. It is an investment of 8 billion, which is being delayed. We read the publications. You yourself say that it will, based on the study by IOBE, bring more than sixty thousand jobs to GDP by 2%. There are other private investments, for which you, as Minister of Economy, would like to inform us about your own plan to change the data for the benefit of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u99	The Minister has the floor, Mr Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u100	I will begin with the remission and collapse of the Greek economy called the title of your question, "Measures to compensate the course of the Greek economy". Let me remind you for the last time that the collapse of the Greek economy was between 2009 and 2014, when the country's GDP fell by 25%, when unemployment from 11% reached 29%, when the formation of fixed capital decreased by 64% and investments dropped by about 60%, private consumption of 23% and public expenditure 28%. This is called a collapse of the economy. In 2015 and 2016 the economy, as you measure it, is stabilised. In 2015 the recession was less than 1% - we had said this since June and even more in September - a year when three elections were held, which was the period of renegotiation, when we reached an agreement where we now have a stable economic recovery programme. So, the idea of collapse should probably replace it with the idea of stabilisation with a prospect of recovery. That's the data. Secondly, for the second quarter of 2016, the title that there is a recession in the second quarter came out. The recession on an annual basis - I stress, on a yearly basis - is less than 0.9% - is not new news - because it bears the weight of three quarters of the period, of the end of 2015 and of the beginning of 2016. The second quarter is the first quarter that has a positive figure compared with the previous one. It's plus 0.20% and something. If we add to this certainty that in the third quarter, which will be a positive sign, the central idea is that the second half of 2016 is the turning point from stagnation to recovery. If a third quarter is followed, as you know the three consecutive quarters with a positive sign are considered by economists a more permanent element for recovery of the economy. Therefore, this forecast and data is justified and the wording that from June to June - what the European Union has - the Greek economy will increase on a 12-month basis by 2.7%. This is about recession. Now about the data on the various issues that you have raised. Development law: The development law we voted on, we said it would be activated in September. The first four programmes, which are the most important, are expected to come to the consultation on 20 September. I am referring to the 'General Entrepreneurship' programmes and several others. I remind you it's eight. Of the eight programmes, four will now come to the consultation and will obviously be activated immediately afterwards. Secondly, all the regulatory decisions that they needed to date have been adopted. For example, a regulatory decision setting up an Advisory Committee, setting out distinct categories of investment projects, etc. Some supplements will come out together with the programmes to which they will refer. So, at the end of September or the first week of October, companies will be able to apply for the four major development law programmes. At the same time - to highlight this - the development law has had a strong transitional provision for previous investments in old development laws. We are talking about two thousand investments in various stages of integration. Several of them have been completed and have not been paid. I would remind you that our aim and commitment was within the next year to speed up the procedures for the liquidation of old development laws, with the recruitment of two hundred external associates, engineers, economists and other specialties that will make the checks and conversion of the entire service to the Ministry in speeding up evaluations. We calculate to reach a desired pace, to close a hundred investments per month at a minimum. The answer is, therefore, that we are closing down and disbursing resources from the old developmenters, the co-financed ones which end this year and the autonomous ones which will be repaid on a seven-year basis, as foreseen by the law, and at the same time we are energising the new development in a normal flow. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The second point I wanted to make concerns institutional interventions. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'm gonna need another minute. Apart from the development law, by the NSRF, which we expect will absorb all these projects linked to the entrepreneurship of one billion - and we will absorb them by the end of the year - as you know, 50% will have been called. The ones that were proclaimed until the end of October. In what has already been announced, because of their great interest and because of the fact that, of course, we have now set up a process in the NRP that simulates the pan-Hellenic exams and no one can intervene and influence the result, because all evaluations are made blind, without knowing the name of the operation and so on, it is a "blind" system of absolute merit...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u101	Minister, the rest in your dentistry. We've reached seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u102	Good, as you wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u104	I understand that you are told at the Ministry that for the first time the 'blind' system becomes, what you said 'all closed'. In the previous evaluations, we had a 'black' system. I'm just telling you, so they'll at least let you know right. Now, I don't want to get into what happened in the past few years. They are Mr Dombrovoski's statements, very well known to everyone where we were in 2014 and where we went. Mr Regling's statements, in the presence of Mr Tsakalotou, are known for the 86 billion that the good economists of SYRIZA and the good Prime Minister in the country cost. But that's what we're leaving. I am very pleased, because the proposals you made about the assessors and all that were proposals that we made to you and we are pleased that they will be implemented. I keep from you that, on 1 October, investors, the private sector will be able to make their applications for investment schemes. It is a commitment that I hope you will keep it, because you remember that the next time you said that you will deposit the investment law and deposit it after two years. We are here, however, and that is good. I'm glad you're saying you're going to absorb a billion. I will not say if there are a lot of them, but I am pleased that you say in your commitment that a billion will be used out of the new programmes. Here we will be looking at them. However, I have also raised other issues - and I hope you will mention them - concerning the major investment which you, too, are responsible for as the Minister for Economic Affairs. It's about the Yungger package. And I would like you to tell me what you have submitted to us, where they are and in what procedures. I would also like to ask you what others are your initiatives on entrepreneurship and large investment. I would not like to mention to you the well-known problem that has arisen with the CRS, which creates new data or anything else. But I told you about a characteristic problem, the largest investment that will create and change the data in the country and Athens. It's what we say will be implemented by the Athenian Riviera from Perama to Sounio. And you know that these works, which were completed today in part of this region, upgraded Athens. I think at least we'll be waiting for an answer from you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u105	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u106	I'll start by continuing where I stopped. I would remind you that the strategy towards private investment, as described, has three pieces. One piece is the N.S.S.S.S.S. The NSRF is funding the Entrepreneurship Programmes so far, small and very small enterprises, and they are fully oriented to start-ups and small and very small enterprises. The development law is absolutely geared to small and medium-sized enterprises. The area of strategic investment, the Younger Plan and large investments are another separate section where the main aid is made by access to financial instruments. The strategy is therefore clarified in its three boxes. Now, let me say two - three things about large investment. First of all, a new tool will be added to the Younger Plan, which is now being set up. It is the equity fund managed by the European Investment Fund, the EIF, where it aims to attract public funds and private and private funds to create a large financial institution, a fund of funds, that is to say, which will primarily provide equity participation. Now, I'm coming back to Yunger-type funding. The funding programme is working on and matured the projects that we have announced here, the over 40 billion projects and, at the same time, private investment is going on together and the funding of some of the privatisations, which are taking place - step by step. I refer also to the regional airports and the port of Piraeus. About the Greek: The Greek Convention, as you know, has been signed together with a text of mutual understanding. It is one of the ten prerequisites, which will come to Parliament within the month for ratification. It is the agreement, which took place last June. In addition, let me stress three more major impact initiatives to facilitate private investment. The first initiative is the one which is already in consultation, namely the self-authorisation of enterprises in four major sectors of the economy. The company will be able to license itself and simply disclose the operation of the company. This also concerns tourism and focus and large sectors of the Greek economy. The audit will be carried out retrospectively in the operation of the operation. Therefore, there is no time, which for bureaucratic reasons was delayed, in order to open up a business in these four areas that go ahead with self-authorisation. In addition, the institution of the "One stop" for all enterprises, set up at regional and logistical level, will come into October with the Chamber of Commerce legislation and a large number of other measures, which are aimed at the radical simplification of the start-up of businesses and to the effort to directly and effectively support the new entrepreneurship and the investment cycle, in which we all aspire the economy to enter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Before we move on to the debate on the draft law, I have the honour of announcing the following to the House: First, the Ministers of Economy, Development and Tourism, Foreign, Finance, State, Deputy Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism and the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs submitted a draft law on 6 September 2016: ‘Statement of the Tripartite Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Cooperation in the field of tourism’. Secondly, the Ministers for Rural Development and Food, Economy, Development and Tourism, Education, Research and Religion, Foreign, Economic, Environment and Energy, Maritime and Island Policy, and the Deputy Ministers for Education, Research and Religious Affairs and Environment and Energy submitted on 6 September 2016 a draft law: ‘Strengthening the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and the Ministry of Agriculture and Improving the Arab Republic of Egypt for cooperation in the fisheries and aquaculture sector’. Third, the Ministers for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Foreign, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Finance, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks and the Deputy Minister for Home and Administrative Reconstruction tabled a draft law on 6 September 2016: ‘Statute of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Transboundary Police Cooperation’. Finally, the Ministers of National Defence, Finance, and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights submitted a draft law on 7 September 2016: ‘Standard the Memorandum of Understanding on the Organisation, Administration, Security, Financing and Reinforcement of NATO Mixed War [Joint Electronic Warfare Core Staff (JEWCS)] in support of NATO, between the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Nations, the Ministry of Defence of the United Nations and the State of Defence of the United States of America’. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. We are now entering the debate on today's draft law. A sole debate and vote on the principle of the law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC (No. L 127/1 of 29.4.2014), as amended by Commission Delegated Directive 2014/109/EU of 10 October 2014 amending Annex II to Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council by establishing a library of iconographic warnings to be used for tobacco products and other relevant provisions.’; The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 31 August 2016 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, on articles and amendments. I would like to inform you that a ministerial amendment concerning the JETD has been tabled and that five - rather four have been tabled, because one has withdrawn - Parliamentary amendments. I would like the Minister during his speech to say what he is accepting so that Members will know when they are placed. The first two rapporteurs will be able to register electronically and those who wish to join will be able to register. If there is no point in the procedure, then we shall begin. There isn't. Mr. Andreas Michaelides, SYRIZA rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, may I have the floor? I have a request for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u110	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. I will not delay you, Mr. Michaelides. Mr President, as a parliamentary representative of the Democratic Integration, I would like - as far as the Bureau can do - to ask the Minister for the Interior if he can come or send a partner of the State Secretary to inform us of the way in which the government is dealing with the issues arising from bad weather and floods. All yesterday and today's report are flooded by people who have suffered serious harm. Because the government will obviously react, we want to have an image here at the National Representation for how it reacts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u112	Please, we can submit a request. And it may be at the end of the procedure or, at the end of the procedure, with the consent of the House, that we spend half an hour in which the government and a representative of each party can speak because of his extraordinary event.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u113	I would remind you that with your intervention the Minister for Immigration had come here. We had the same procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u114	Okay. I will contact Mr. Kurubli, Mr. Loverdo, when I come down from the Chair. I can't know his answer, but I'll do it anyway. In any case, we can submit this to the Secretary of Government as a unanimous request - I do not think any of our colleagues - have any objections, even a little outside the Rules of Procedure, to inform Mr Kurublé and during the sitting to know whether or not he will come. Here, Mr. Michaelides, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the draft law we are debating today in plenary is to adapt Greek legislation to the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products. This directive comes to replace substantially, by adding, by updating and updating, an earlier directive, 37/2001, which had been incorporated into Greek law by the Joint Ministerial Decision of January 2003. This earlier Directive laid down rules at European Union level for tobacco products relating to the content of various substances. In order to reflect scientific developments, which have, in the meantime, been and which obviously represent the need for substantial changes in this directive, a new directive should be repealed and replaced. With regard to the reasons that have made it necessary to formulate and adopt a new regulatory framework for tobacco products and related products, we could first - firstly - state that the Member States - Member States and the Commission need detailed information on tobacco components and emissions to assess the attractiveness, emotionality and toxicity of tobacco products, and assess the risks involved in the consumption of these products for health. The use of different reporting formats makes it extremely difficult for manufacturers and importers of these products to fulfil their obligations and, of course, makes it difficult for the work of the Member States and the Committee to compare, analyse and draw conclusions on the basis of data obtained. There are also differences between the national provisions governing, in particular, labelling of tobacco products, in particular with regard to the use of combined health warnings consisting of image and text, to be indicated on the products. It is also necessary to adapt labelling provisions in order to align the rules applicable at Union level with international developments and, of course, international scientific developments. It can therefore be summarised that the need for a stronger regulatory framework at European level for the construction, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products is first based on the constant and high priority that governments and societies must attach to health and, of course, on the protection of public health. The continuous production of scientific investigations confirming the adverse effects on human health of the use of tobacco products makes, by definition, such tobacco products as unusable goods. The results obtained from various countries show that stricter rules on advertising and the use of tobacco products have a positive effect on the individual health of smokers and non-smokers and on public health systems in general. This is undeniably true for all the countries of the European Union. I would say, however, that strengthening the regulatory framework for tobacco products is even more necessary in Greece, and that is why we all know about it. For example, it is well known and is confirmed in surveys, such as that of the 2015 Eurobarometer, which is widely known, that Greece has the highest proportion of smokers at European level, 38% compared with 26%, which is the average in the European Union. In the same research, as in other countries, there is also the much greater exposure to tobacco in Greece in catering facilities, even in workplaces, compared with the average citizen of the European Union. This study has been published in ‘Hellas Health’ 6-2015. This, of course, reminds us that even more stringent regulations will not be beneficial and improveable if they are not to be implemented. I am referring, of course, to the problematic application of the so-called'smoking' law, in terms of smoking in enclosed areas, which is an issue which, unfortunately, is open. Furthermore, although health protection is the most important reason why we should legislate on tobacco products, we should not underestimate - without, of course, that is the main reason - the burden that smoking entails for the public health system too, given the high proportion of tobacco producers in Greece, with what this may mean for the public health system. Although the above is true, I would like to point out that, according to the Eurobarometer survey mentioned above, the vast majority of Greek citizens, as well as European citizens as a whole, appear to agree to a series of stricter measures concerning the sale and restrictions on the use of tobacco products and related products. Having referred to the above in relation to the need for a new regulatory framework for tobacco and related products, as well as, of course, the obligation of the country as a member of the European Union to adapt the directive to its domestic law, I will very briefly refer to the provisions of the draft law, assuming that we will also be able to hear the views of the other political forces on this draft law. First - and so the maximum levels of tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide are set. In addition, it shall specify the ISO standards by which the measurements of these emissions are to be made, as well as the procedure for verifying the measurements by the General Chemistry of the State and accredited laboratories. It is intended for manufacturers and importers of tobacco products that are increased - in relation to the existing - reporting obligations of components, emissions, in particular additives contained in cigarettes and tobacco for shredded cigarettes. The circulation of cigarettes and tobacco for tanners with a characteristic flavour or flavour, as well as additives that give the impression of a reduced health risk with colours or other properties which may mislead the consumer, shall be completely prohibited. Detailed references and a description of the new labels to be carried on tobacco packages shall also be made. A basic provision of Articles 8 to 14 - and one of the fundamental changes to the substance of the draft law - are new health warnings, which concern, above all, packaging of cigarettes and tobacco. It is particularly intense in these tone that the warning messages are formulated in combination with hard - I would say - colour photographs that will accompany them. All this marks a new way to prevent and prevent smoking, as well as informing smokers and the general public about the consequences of smoking. Alongside the draft law, cross-border distance sales of electronic cigarettes and containers from abroad to Greece are prohibited, although otherwise, sales from Greece to other countries are permitted under conditions. Let me refer a little to Rule 17, which has also been a point of view, and I would say at the meetings of the committee responsible, and at the first reading and at the second reading, but also at the hearing of the non-parliamentary bodies. It concerns the licensing procedure for new tobacco products. The introduced draft law proposes a procedure, which is admittedly a close procedure, which provides that within three months the company which imports the new tobacco product will have to submit a complete technical file. A five-member committee is set up in an advisory capacity, which decides on the request, followed by the procedure for the authorisation of the product. I must point out here that this procedure - because there has been a reflection on this - may be very extensive in time and may pose problems of delay in the development of the licensing procedure. This procedure will be specific, up to three months. In the absence of an opinion from the committee concerned, a ministerial decision will not be required. Therefore, the product will be placed on the market, but without prejudice to the fact that if the product is placed on the market and then a negative recommendation is withdrawn. Finally, it is attempting for the first time in a way to coordinate an overall arrangement for the various issues relating to the sale and use of electronic cigarette. Specific product specifications are laid down, notification obligations are laid down for their manufacturers and importers, and all kinds of advertising of these products are prohibited, just as is the case for classic tobacco products. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a minute, if you're kind. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this bill serves a number of targets and prevents a number of consequences without affecting tobacco cultivation. Promote a strengthening of the level of health protection of the population of the country and of smokers' health. It sets increased notification obligations to tobacco and other tobacco and new products, such as electronic cigarette. It creates better conditions for public information and public health protection. Many of the obligations contained in the Framework Convention of the World Health Organisation for Tobacco Control apply. And, finally, it's not the state budget. On the contrary, the imposition of infringements on manufacturers and importers strengthens actions of the Ministry of Health on smoking. In view of the above, I think it is necessary to vote in favour of the draft law, just as it is introduced by the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u116	The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, Directive 2014/40 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which is incorporated into our national law by this bill, is undoubtedly a positive step. We sincerely hope that its implementation will contribute to the objectives set, to reduce tobacco consumption, to reduce the number of smokers, to reduce the cost of health care for smoking-induced diseases and to make the rules of the game clear and common, so that there will be equal competition in the internal European market between businesses, manufacturers and importers. It is true that, until recently, differences in Member States' regulatory frameworks on tobacco products and the circulation of electronic cigarettes and new tobacco products would probably increase these discrepancies. Ladies and gentlemen, during the preparation of the bill in the committee responsible, very interesting views have indeed been heard from scientific bodies and market representatives. We have, for our part, reached two main conclusions. The first is that we do not have undeniably scientific data on the effects of new tobacco products and electronic cigarettes on human health. The second is that what we are most interested in is the improvement of public health, but also the healthy competition that can be ensured in full, without undue obstacles to business activity, especially when companies have already lifted excessive burdens and in the current difficult situation they are looking for ways of survival. That is why we disagreed with the way in which the rules on the movement of new tobacco products were transposed into the bill. I would like to point out here that new tobacco products cannot yet be defined accurately. Many of them are in the process of research and development, which is why the text of the directive says what these products cannot be, rather than what they are. In any case, they have tobacco as a ingredient and one can smoke them, may not. Because they are new products, research into their health effects is under way and there are no definitive conclusions. It is therefore right for the legislator to deal with these products without prejudice. We do not know their characteristics, they are not widespread in Europe, and they are likely to have a serious impact on human health, even if they are reduced. However, this reasonable reservation does not necessarily mean excessive regulation. Public health may be protected with adequate protection, without adding undue administrative burdens to undertakings. Very briefly, I would like to make a few comments on the administrative procedures referred to in Article 17 concerning the placing on the market of new tobacco products. The directive contains a compulsory procedure for the notification of new tobacco products to the competent State authority, as well as a brief reference to the possibility - I stress - of the Member States to introduce a licensing procedure. The Greek legislator chooses to make this optional licensing procedure compulsory, achieving a European originality. It proposes a procedure that is similar to that in no other country. Twenty-one Member States retain this article as it stands in the directive, i.e. they accept that the notification procedure provided for in the directive is sufficient and has an increased character of control by the public authorities, because it enables them to control the safety and quality of products for six months before they are put into circulation and, if there is a problem, not to allow the product to be placed on the market. The other six Member States have provided for a formal approval of the new tobacco products in addition to the notification. The approval shall be granted by a competent authority within the period laid down, without any additional condition, other than those laid down in the notification procedure. But we wanted to save and well make a difference. We have set up a complex and time-consuming bureaucratic process, with committee, opinions and possibilities, which result in a ministerial decision to release a new tobacco product on the market. If that's not the deposition of bureaucracy, then what is it? Of course, those who pay it are the ones whose government asks to pay more taxes, direct and indirect, and increased insurance contributions. We would like to ask the Government: is this how you support our quality agricultural products, such as tobacco? Is that how you deal with unemployment? Is that how you stimulate small and medium-sized entrepreneurship? Not to mention, of course, the amendment brought to the Committee of Sixteen Members of the SYRIZA, calling for a ban on the sale of cigarettes to whipped cigarettes, i.e. to micro-migrants, who have seen their cigarette fall dramatically over the last six years. This amendment, having been rejected by the opposition group, has fortunately not been accepted. We, ladies and gentlemen, want to help. The government has choices, without punishing production and trade. You want more information? You can enter the additional information you request for the licensing file as required in the notification procedure. Do you want to better organise the information communicated? Create a standard for electronic submission as set out in European Commission Implementing Decision 2015/2186 for tobacco products. It expressly states that you may also propose a corresponding form for new tobacco products. Do you still want a ministerial decision? A joint ministerial decision setting out the restrictions on the commercial communication of new tobacco products to the consumer is envisaged. This issue is not included in the directive and therefore there is a legal vacuum, which must be covered. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, I find it difficult to understand why the government insists on this Greek patent, a licensing scheme which is not provided for the most dangerous traditional traditional tobacco products. Ladies and gentlemen, on another controversial issue of the bill, the ban on the use of electronic cigarettes containing nicotine, so-called steaming in public spaces, which is where smoking is banned today. A report by the World Health Organisation entitled “Nicotin electron inhalers” states that some experts are positive towards these products, because they can contribute to reducing smoking, while others estimate that they can neutralise the efforts made to marginalise smoking. The same report states that, because the scientific data available to us are limited, there are no safe conclusions as to whether the use of electronic cigarettes is a precursor to smoking or an exit gate from it. Even if scientific research has not responded definitively to the range of risks from atmospheric pollution, it is recognised that electronic cigarette has a significantly less health impact. Invoking all this uncertainty, the legislator may take restrictive measures, such as those provided for in the Community directive on prohibitions on the commercial communication of electronic cigarettes. However, the directive does not regulate or encourage the use of electronic cigarettes. After all, ladies and gentlemen, when scientific data is contradictory, we believe that we need to think and act politically. Because, you know, at the end of the day, what matters is how we achieve the main objectives of the directive. Do we want to reduce smoking and smokers? Let us accept the use of a substitute for conventional cigarettes, which has been a sign of salvation for smokers or former smokers. This also results from the testimony of the steamers themselves. Do we want to achieve a reduction in health care expenditure? It is better for both public health and public finances to have two hundred thousand steamers - so many today are counted in our country - than two hundred thousand smokers. Instructions and practices that have deep roots do not easily change. And the major changes, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, are taking place. We believe that smoking is such an intermediate step that helps smokers to get rid of cigarettes and non-smokers from passive smoking. We consider such a choice to be much more effective than horizontal bans and absolute approaches. If you consider it appropriate, you can review the matter, after having come to the public in 2017, the conclusions of a major European study on the effects on health of passive exposure to the steam of electronic cigarette, which a study is expected to confirm recently scientific data showing that there is no passive smoking in the sense that the health of third parties is not affected by exposure to the steam of electronic cigarettes. I would like to point out here that atypical public spaces have been allowed in various countries of Europe, such as the United Kingdom, France, Italy and Spain, and, indeed, in countries where the ban on smoking in closed public places is applied, unlike our country. So if you want, Minister, to do something essential to protect public health, let us immediately implement anti-smoking legislation, something we have committed ourselves to, and we will soon bring it to a debate in the Committee on Social Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-two students and students and three school attendants from the Netherlands. Welcome to Greece and the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr Ioannis Aivatidis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the introduced draft law is an adaptation to the European Directive 40/2014 and concerns the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products, including electronic cigarettes, and a library of graphical warnings for tobacco products is being established. Public health, the health of Greek citizens, is well-known as being the state's top priority. The relationship between smoking and unfavourable health has been fully demonstrated for decades, both in terms of active and passive smoking. On the other hand, tobacco cultivation is a traditional crop, which employs at least fifteen thousand families and is costing Greek primary production, and the tobacco industries in Greece have a long tradition of successful production and exports, despite the successive blows which have been suffered by the policies of the European Union, by overtaxation of tobacco products and by the failure to put an end to trade and smuggling. The growing of tobacco is also associated with the tertiary sector, in the sense of wholesale trade and retail trade. So a political manoeuvre is required that will find the golden incision to this matter. Electronic cigarette based on scientific data is 95% less harmful than conventional cigarette, whereas passive atom does not exist in practice. The conventional and electronic cigarette equation is therefore unscientific, as was unfortunately heard by representatives of operators in the committee that took place. Some of them showed up fanatical tobacco wars, but in a stubborn way, because I must remind them that tobacco, cigarettes, is not a banned substance in Greece, but only in the Kingdom of Bhutan, between China and India. The main position of the Golden Dawn is that prevention is more effective than the suppression and punishment that the state often displays, both in terms of smoking and atmospheric pollution. The electronic cigarette is not a portal of entry or re-entry to smoking, but an alternative method to limit or stop smoking, which is expressly supported by the Ministry of Health, for example, the Great Britain. Electronic cigarettes are the most widespread - and, as it turns out, a means of limiting and stopping smoking. Only a 0.2% of users of electronic cigarettes have never been smokers. So potentially the electronic cigarette is an exit gate and under no circumstances an entry gate for smoking. Therefore, this simulation, the equation of conventional and electronic cigarette, in terms of adverse health effects, is unscientific. I think that the full implementation of Anti-smoking Law 3730/2008 is abusive and another solution should be found, as regards the restrictions on steam in public spaces, catering areas and so on. Clearly nicotine is a potent addictive substance, with adverse health effects, where appropriate. However, I believe that these appalling illustrations in cigarette packets are semi-metres and cannot solve the problem. They are not a preventive means of smoking, because the dependent smoker will overlook these illustrations and make use of cigarettes and tobacco. Golden Dawn proposes to stimulate growth in domestic tobacco cultivation, as well as in companies active in electronic cigarettes, mainly in Greek forms of production of electronic cigarette replacement fluids with high level scientific support. As far as the draft law itself is concerned, I would like to say to the Minister that it would be advisable to make an explicit reference to the containers of the liquid replacement of electronic cigarettes, with regard to the high-security stoppers for the protection of children. We shall be voting in favour of some of the articles - in principle we have declared 'at present' and will vote 'at present' - relating, in particular, to certain prohibitions on tobacco products with a specific flavour or flavour, which may be misleading. This is Article 7. We will also vote in favour of Article 13 - for a ban on products that give the wrong impression of being less unhealthy as tobacco products and a ban on oral tobacco - but also on Article 16, which prohibits cross-border sales of electronic cigarettes and refill fluids from abroad to Greece. With regard to the amendment tabled, the general number 661 and a special number 55, we say'residents'. However, we will vote against Article 18, which concerns electronic cigarettes, but also Article 24, because these articles start with an incorrect anti-scientific basis, namely that the use of electronic cigarettes, steam, is a gateway to smoking. Because this is completely wrong and unscientific, we are voting against these two articles and, in particular, Article 24, which is also the subject of national jurisdiction, that is to say it was the government's choice to create this ban on electronic cigarettes and atmospheric, which is essentially equilibrium with smoking. I shall refer very briefly to a topical issue. A fine of EUR 10 million for hazardous waste was imposed in our country because of the lack of even a treatment and burial area for hazardous waste. This is a wide-ranging concept of public health, and of course it is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. So far a fine of EUR 37 million has been paid from our country for illegal landfills and EUR 13.7 million has been paid for the absence of biological cleansing. Especially with regard to the latter, I am going to address an issue that concerns Corfu in particular and concerns the work of Agios Ioannis, who could have been handed over to the beneficiaries since 2010. Due to the absence of biological cleansing, this settlement has not become operational and is a ghost settlement. The government - of course this is a matter for the Ministry of Labour - must resolve this matter immediately. In conclusion, I should like to refer to a number of issues of a general nature, first of all, after mentioning that the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paulakis, has shone in his absence in this draft law. And without this being a certain ironic position, I think it could be a positive contribution. The Ministry of Health with its Ministers is being cut for public health. Golden Dawn had warned of the adverse effects of smuggling migration, the invasion of these uninvited people, even uninhabited, from third world countries. Golden Dawn was this political body that mentioned the risk of tuberculosis - confirmed -, the risk of malaria - was also confirmed - but also other infectious diseases such as hepatitis A. It is indeed a dramatic confirmation of our predictions, which we would not like them to be confirmed, but have been confirmed and disproved of reports on the healthy population of migrants. Minister, you do not answer the questions raised by the Members of the Golden Dawn. You are sticking to this practice, and it is critical, which is what you yourself know. Nearly all the other ministers respond and you anticipate that there is a trial in progress for a criminal organization. I believe, Minister, that you are condoning your ministerial duty with an imperceptive and extreme leftism, which is essentially inconsistent with the public interest and which affects the third political party in our country. And it is certain that the Golden Dawn will continue to exist and grow, while you will sometime stop being a Minister of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u120	The reason for this is the special speaker of the Democratic Association, Eve Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this draft law on the tobacco directive is taking place in an environment that is difficult. It is difficult, Minister, especially for pensioners, who, as you know, are facing bitter truth in front of the ATMs and the thirteenth pension they would receive, lose the twelfth. Mr Katrugalos himself, ladies and gentlemen, has just accepted that up to 40-45% are the reductions in supplementary pensions. Of course, one recalls that not only with the third and most remarks made by SYRIZA and ANEL have accepted all the cuts made by previous governments to deficits, but today, on alleged surpluses, these ancillarys are far higher. Of course, Mr Minister, and through you, the government must respond if, even this robber, insurer, 'Katrugalou's law is applied, because the cuts are felt and information that they are made without a reasoned decision by the administration, they are being made as, so they are illegally, and they are being carved far greater than those which you have just voted on. Retired people are denounced, there are examples - I am bound, Mr Minister, in my dentext - to set examples, and I cannot, after the survival ransom of the canalarchs, to have a retired person's survival ransom beyond the law. The government and the Minister responsible must respond, because we cannot legislate in a vacant way and speak only of tobacco products, while things, people and situations and laws are being devastated outside. I now come to a second point, as serious as that. You abolished the ESS, which we, the German-German-German-German-speakers, have so far resisted. So you're abolishing the CSCE. And Mr. Katrugalos and Mr. Tsipras came and told us that zero is participation in drugs, so as to alleviate the pensioners who lose the CSCE. Minister, today we are talking about, do you know that IKA's circular has not arrived and pensioners have no drug involvement at all? Do you know, Minister, that there is no electronic system that can support pensioners? We are talking in this environment. Furthermore, because, Minister, you have invoked us and invoked me personally for populism, to make things clear. Because we seem to have read our communications as you wish, with glasses, we didn't say you brought malaria, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u122	That's exactly what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u123	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u124	That's exactly what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u125	Read again what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u126	Now don't start dialectic. When your time comes, Minister, you will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u127	I told you all about pensions and he did not sweat your ears and is now sweating for malaria. Listen to me. All I'm telling you is that the program that had started for a problem, which was indeed because of immigrants and refugees, had become intense in 2011, through an anti-consumer scheduled action, had arrived in 2014 in not having a case. All we're telling you is that you didn't plan and bring in an old problem. Why didn't you? Because there's a lack of programming and management. But by communication you get '10'. You get '10'! So cuts on cuts and somewhere it's because of someone, some opposition, who doesn't take you "with and with you" and neither will take you - it's also Mr. Loverdos here - "with and with you." Minister, anti-smoking law. I would like to submit to the Minutes, so that we can remember it, ladies and gentlemen, the image of Mr Polakis, the image of your Deputy Minister, to smoke in a public place before a press conference and you can do nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u128	The interview. In the press room.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u129	In the interview, yes, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u130	That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u131	How's that not true?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u132	It wasn't an interview.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u133	He was at the press conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u134	It was a closed space.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u135	It wasn't an interview!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u136	It's okay, colleagues will get...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u137	Well, we won't fight about where Mr. Paulakis smoked.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, through you at the Conference of Presidents with Mr Barriots from the River...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u139	I'll keep your time, Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u141	Mr. Paulakis was smoking...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u142	Mr Loverdo, ladies and gentlemen, can you hear the Bureau? Is it a matter now, where did Mr. Paulakis smoke? Is that the problem with the Ministry of Health? I wish that was it! There's too much more and more serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u143	And this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u144	Of course, but don't interrupt for that! Carry on, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u145	Theatres are known. They don't surprise us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u146	I'm going on, Mr. President. At the beginning of the summer, after a timely question from my colleague from Potami, Mr Barriots, we are making a joint letter from Mr Barriots and I to the President of the Committee on Social Affairs, asking, ladies and gentlemen, that the Committee on Social Affairs should be convened on this only subject, with a view to highlighting the time-consuming nature of the problem. Because we do not tile or propaganda. We're trying not to folk. You do the exact opposite. You don't deceive yourself. You're lying. And what did you do? We have reached the end of July, Minister, in order to come to this directive. And I ask you, too, and Mr Barriots in the first committee: 'What are you going to do with this?' and go on to say: 'Yes'. Thank you in public. And now thank you for saying 'yes'. When, Minister, is there a second meeting with the agencies? You guys didn't want to call. We suggested it, you accepted it. We thank you for accepting this in order to highlight the issue of the application of anti-smoking legislation and, more generally, this directive, which has the agreement and needs to be raised. And neither at this sitting nor at the second reading, Minister, you are setting a date for convening the Committee on Social Affairs. So we're waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u147	I do not invite the committee, Mrs Christophilopoulou. The President convenes her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u148	Yes, Minister. I know very well, as you know, that the President is convening her. But whoever doesn't want to ferment is sifting ten days. The bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u149	Forty days.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u150	Forty, my colleague. We're not going to ruin this. We in this bill, as far as the implementation of the corresponding tobacco directive is concerned, are in agreement and will be voting in favour of the majority of the provisions. After all, it has also been made clear from the hearing by the institutions that there is a wider agreement in the Greek scientific community in relation to the implementation and application of this directive. If we raise the tons for the smoker, it is less in this case than the pensioners, so that we can actually put the finger on the type of sunshine, Minister, and see how we can apply what we are doing here. Because in this particular directive we have two directions. We have a direction in the packaging and cigarettes themselves, where we have a burden on how to promote and market products. And that's where I think there's an absolute deal. There is, however, also the piece concerning steam and electronic cigarettes. I would like to remind you here and, indeed, to call on the Vice-President of Parliament, Professor Kremastino, who spoke of important research data and bilateral approaches. It is a new product. We also heard, ladies and gentlemen, in their committee saying that electronic cigarettes are a gateway out of smoking, but also some voices saying that electronic cigarettes can lead or exist as alternatives and help addiction to smoking. We believe that, because these research work is both dubious and controversial and because the product is new, we must not go beyond the directive. That is, to implement the directive, but not to go beyond the directive, and also to consider something else that we have said in committee when you go to the other end of rigour. We are not applying the anti-smoking law. And I say again that it concerns all political forces. So apply the anti-smoking law. Are we going to implement this law, which says 'not even the electronic cigarette in public spaces'? Is that too much? The second issue. Article 17, Minister, concerns technical specifications for licensing. Here the Greek Government proposes that the House should legislate beyond the directive. That is, instead of going to electronic cigarette notification, like conventional, we should go to license. And there is a process, quite bureaucratic indeed. We told you in committee too. However, I would like to ask you this and I ask you to inform the National Representation: If for this technical, technical rules, you have implemented Directive 2015/1535 of the European Union, which wants, if a Member State makes a technical rule, three months ago, to have put this issue in consultation with all the Member States. Of course, this directive does not apply if the technical rule is included in the directive we are voting on today, and we are voting in favour of it. Look, this is a little technical, but we need to be careful, Minister, not to legislate about something that we will be dragged to the courts or'speak it - legislate', we will have to 'vote'. We do not like to 'express' - vote' and we do not. So we want to say that here we need to see if the Greek administration sent for consultation this, if it had to be sent, and if the Ministry of Health has done so, let us know if that has happened. Because, if it has not been done, there is a question of the vote on Rule 17 as it stands. I expect an answer, Minister, because otherwise, as I told you in my first speech, we have agreed that we will vote on all the articles in this bill. One more point I would like to make, Mr President, and I shall conclude. In closing my speech, I would like once again and hope that today's Conference of Presidents determines this debate, we will see again how smoking, which causes 20 000 deaths every year in Greece and 13% of the total morbidity in our country, is due to cigarette, it must be extinct from public spaces at least. If you think that I have unjustly supported Mr Polakis, I will close my speech, unfortunately, by supporting the political world in general. I am not saying names and names of the President of the Republic himself, too, to us here at Parliament's canteens and, of course, the highest political leadership, almost all of the political leaders. I recall a post of 1 December 2015 that the political leaders were smoking happily with the President of the Republic. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we have a duty not to do that. We first have to show an example. Even if we are smokers, we should avoid smoking in public places in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u151	Thank you. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr George Lambroulis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. In the specific text of the draft law, the directive and the government in terms of the discussion procedure in committee, it was stated that the purpose, objective and orientation of the implementation of this directive is, in particular, the protection of public health with regard to smoking. No doubt smoking is a harmful habit, which can lead to tragic effects. In this sense, the concern of the state, the governments, the European Union to protect our health from smoking could also be touching. We believe, however, that this directive, like the past, and the anti-smoking measures adopted, are hypocritical and disorientative because they focus unilaterally on smoking as a health risk factor. After all, both the previous and the current government, if they wanted to deal with people’s health about smoking harm, other measures had to be taken, whether before or right now. When we talk about public health, about its comprehensive protection, this requires systematic assessment, monitoring of the conditions of a number of factors, such as living, working, education, recreation, and so on. It is linked, in other words, to that work needed to minimise the risk of creating a health problem. However, how is there at the same time that the interest in the health effects of smoking does not show the same interest as the many consequences for the health of our peoples, the peoples, if you wish, at European Union level, in the deep anti-grassrooted policy that is being promoted and exercised, by the towel of pensions, undeclared carpets, huge unemployment and poverty, huge shortcomings and the tragic and dangerous state of public health structures, work to death, the lack of health and safety measures at the workplace, the environmental disasters caused by industries, resulting in the proliferation of cancers in the areas polluting their waste - with the top example of the Oprahs - and the merchandise health, cuts in benefits and medicines from the funds? And after expressing the interest in declaring the effects of tobacco - it was forbidden, for example, in insurance funds to cover the necessary medication to stop smoking, they were even regarded as lifestyle products, so that those who have decided to stop smoking, but also patients who are being treated for their health problems, and, of course, have either entered or want to enter the smoking cessation process, using the medication - why, for example, is there complete indifference in what is called 'health', much more so when public health services are naked than necessary personnel and media? There are, in fact, no public health services which could play a role in the issue of smoking, both in terms of prevention and in terms of smoking cessation. Even in the directive that we are discussing, there is no provision for prevention, especially for young people, nor for the rehab of cigarette addictive substances. So, for example, it is hypocrisy as provided for in Article 16 on cross-border sales. So, is it a measure to prevent young people from supplying, for example, cigarettes and electronic cigarettes, as they say inside? However, most important, in our view, on the issue of smoking, as well as on other issues relating to health - obesity, lack of exercise and so on. - is accepting or trying to accept from the people in the direction of individual responsibility for the issues of their health. And this is to hide that smoking is linked not only to standards and behaviours supported over time by the previous governments and by the European Union - we all know and remember advertising for the promotion of tobacco products, the standards put forward by children but also by adolescents - but also, above all, it is also linked to the socio-economic factors that politicians have shaped and shaped. It is well known to everyone, for example, that smoking cessation is almost impossible, when the smoker is fired, he is unemployed, he is suffering a great deal of stress, lives alone and abandoned and more. Also, people who stopped smoking, under the current circumstances, have increased chances of relaunching it. So when these factors live and reign, any ban or fines do not help the smoker. Indeed, it is a challenge that, at the same time as smoking is banned through a series of measures, discussions on the decriminalisation of soft drugs are increasing. So the state, the government, the European Union and what does it say? I am taking some measures, I am making certain rules, and let everyone take their own measures, namely, the responsibility, in order to tackle any problem, both to prevent and to tackle health issues, thereby dismantling the obligation to protect the life and health of the people. And it is a huge challenge and hypocrisy that whatever interest it does not have in the health of smokers, but a burden on the effects of smoking on public spending and on insurance funds, that is, costs. This is how health, public health, as a cost to the economy. This is also a proclaimed objective in the European Union of governments and parties which accept the strategic choices of the European Union and which call for the individualisation of health and safety responsibility, as a result of the commercialisation and privatization of these sectors as well. That is why it is a challenge that whatever interest is not in the health of smokers, but in the costs of insurance funds and state expenditure, which concern both the issues of prevention, health care and the treatment of health problems. So everything that has to do with the effective prevention of smoking and its discontinuation - health care, sport, health services, insurance funds, anti-smoking medicine - is constantly being curtailed by the state and traded. At the same time, with policies to reduce state and employers' health spending, the strategic objective of saving state funds is being implemented in order to enhance business competitiveness. Thus, while the State, in every country and as a whole of course the European Union, seeks to deal with the problem without a burden on the state budget, on the contrary, the problem is being exploited, of course, invested with the propaganda concerned, in the direction of increasing state revenues. For example, the treatment of tobacco smuggling, along with the promotion of the movement of uncontrolled dangerous, dangerous cigarettes for health, is accompanied - and it is even called a dominant problem - by the loss of state revenues from the loss of tobacco tax. The state itself, however, is its governments, which continue to impose taxes on tobacco. See, from the beginning of next year, a new tax on cigarettes will be added, unless it is necessary earlier, the revenue of which or even a part will be directed to the support of the public health system, since the argument is that the measure is acting from a deterrent to smoking, on the other hand to pay those who are responsible for the system. This is hypocrisy, since at the same time the European Union and the governments are reducing government spending on health, moving more and more of the costs to the people, whether they smoke or not smoke. Thus, with this policy, on the one hand, there is the misuse of smoking and, on the other, some of the health costs are dependent on increasing smoking, since public revenues are also increased from the burden of the people, but not from business groups, from the tobacco-industrial groups, because that is what competitiveness, that is, their profitability. In fact, the abstraction of hypocrisy is the hideous photographs that are to be placed on the packaging and which are also provided for in the directive we are discussing today, thereby replacing state responsibility in the development of services and infrastructures with terrorist campaigns. In fact, what have the results so far had, such as, for example, package warnings, an increase in cigarette prices? Both these and those proposed on the grounds of smoking deterrence touch on the perception of the European Union and the governments that 'I show what may happen, what may happen to you from smoking, but I do not implement measures to deal with the problem, but rather I replicate the problem with the measures that I take'. See wages, pensions, environmental issues, unemployment, health system, modelling, etc., which overall contribute to the premature deterioration of the health of people's families, whether smoking or not smoking, respectively transferring responsibility to each individual to give a solution. What is more, do the same things not happen with other sources of health? Is there any need for healthy food, for example, on the occasion of the treatment of cholesterol or heart disease or obesity, etc., when a large part of the population eats junk, why does it correspond to the level of wages and pensions? Of course, the situation is much worse for those who do not have it. Therefore, any anti-smoking measures taken or planned in the name of public health are projected to be sensitive. However, it does not show the state - governments with their policies, this urban state and the employer at the same time - the same sensitivity to health and safety at the workplace, as thousands of workers acquire occupational diseases, thousands of people being murdered or crippled at the workplace by criminal employer activity. They do not show the same sensitivity, but they are abolishing or abolishing heavy and unhealthy. Governments are not talking about economic costs here. The life of the workers is consumable. Moreover, an accidental death costs much less as compensation than health and safety measures. We believe that the decision, the attempt to free smoking, can only be a collective and individual choice in the direction of eliminating dependencies, which the organized state will stand by all means, notably by prevention, which is inexistent and outside the direction of policy being pursued. We believe that there should be control measures, but above all measures to deal with all the social and economic factors which have a negative effect on the lives and health of the people, not only on smoking, but on the whole on the living conditions of our people. What is needed is integrated prevention and state care programmes and public free rehabilitation infrastructures, integrated into an integrated public health and welfare system, with a ban on all business activities, which can only be implemented on a completely different path of development, with the working people in power. On the basis of all this, Mr President, the Communist Party will vote 'at present' in this draft law, in this particular directive. Let me take the time left - less time to use - to ask the Minister, from the government. I think that this proposal will be embraced, because other Members too had tabled an amendment. It is an amendment concerning the extension of contracts, by the end of 2016, of contract workers who concluded a contract with the municipalities. We refer to it in the amendment on the occasion of the Municipality of Heraklion, but that also applies to other municipalities throughout the country. It was the second phase of contractors in Genarris, for which it was not predicted or, anyway, no amendment had been taken, as had been made with the contractors in December, that is, on 31-12-2015 they had concluded contracts with the municipalities whose term of office was renewed - to say so - by the end of 2016. For the second phase of contractors, in January 2016, we ask for the amendment to extend their term of office until the end of 2016. Of course, in addition to that, we are also calling for the amendment to end the term of office, in this case at the end of 2016, for their working relations to be transformed into an indefinite period of time. I think the government will see that positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u153	Mr Constantine Barriotas, special speaker from the Potami, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. I think that today is a really good debate on smoking, bans and regulations. The incorporation of the directive, as it came from the Ministry, has indeed been discussed in detail. We have had the opportunity to hear the views of all the stakeholders and the scientific community, which seem to support the new regulations and the harmonisation of our legislation. I would like to remind you of what we have heard an optimistic fact that the number of smokers is falling in Greece. It is now about 27%, something less than one in three adults is smoking. We still have one voiceless minority, which, by force, imposes on Greece, like many others, the rule of the strongest, at least on the voice. So one in three adults has smoked and imposed the abuse of anti-smoking laws and smoking everywhere, as Mrs Christophilopoulos said before, in Parliament, in the catering areas, in hospitals. I think that this is the first point to be made, namely that the country's large deficit was not harmonisation, it is not the introduction of bans and photographs, it is probably not even the ban on electronic cigarettes. It is mainly the implementation of legislation in which there is a huge hole. Mrs Marku, who had a recent experience in neighboring Turkey, said that smoking on board ships and on deck is banned and no one smokes. The 'and no one smokes' is what is not done in that country, even in the areas where smoking is prohibited. I think that what we need to discuss, leaving aside the hypocrisy that distinguishes us as a society, is the question of banning smoking and enforcing the law. That is the most important thing, and that is not what we want to see. Minister, I think it is important that you accepted the proposal to convene the committee. We are waiting for the date - and it must be soon - and there must be a debate not on the debate, but on the development of a new anti-smoking legislation policy. Implementation is the problem, as is many other things in the country. The important thing is to implement the existing legislation. Emmanuel Roydes told us a long time ago. Shoeble told us recently about "it's the implemenution". The truth is that. If we want to make a start, even 'near the lion', we have to start from here. Smoking must really be banned in all places where the law - this law we have or any other vote in the future - provides, with specific penalties and specific means of policing. So it is very important that we see the ban, that we see something that is not done anywhere, that is to say, the ban on the sale of tobacco products and of alcohol of all kinds to minors. It's still a huge hole in Greece. As far as the bill is concerned, I will be very brief. I think we've had enough of this conversation. There are very few points which are questionable and there is an open debate. One is Article 17 - if I am not mistaken - regarding the licensing of new tobacco products. We also pointed out, like many others, that here with the choice of the licensing process from the stiff bureaucratic - to say it all - corrupt Greek public is creating an additional difficulty in introducing new tobacco products, unlike electronic cigarettes and old ones. It is only a practice that is adopted in our country as far as I know in any other country of Europe, and indeed in a country that is one of the largest tobacco-producing countries and has an important part of its economy, which is based on the cultivation of tobacco and its derivatives. Just because new tobacco products involve less harmful or new forms with less nicotine and less harmful substances in their contents, we think that the very heavy bureaucratic process should be omitted. In this sense it will be the only article in the bill that we will vote against as well as we will agree and vote for all the rest. The second one - and at the risk of being very unpleasant to some good friends - concerns e-smoking. I think the conversation is open. It is a mistake to discuss whether it harms cigarettes less or more. Clearly, it damages less and it is a conversation that has many subcategories, since it is not an e-smoking device, but it is too many different devices with too many different substances and at least a number of ways to extract these substances that makes it very complicated scientifically. However, if we want to be right and serious, e-smoking is a substitute for smoking, which is used in various ways. It is indeed used as an intermediate interruption agent. It is used as a permanent substitute where smoking is banned - in this Chamber for example - and then we go out and smoke a cigarette. It is used as a chronic substitute for smoking. In any case, it reproduces a social and cultural model, this model of inhalation of substances, which we cannot accept in public space, and I see no reason why people who really use it to stop smoking will obviously be helped by the fact that they are not free everywhere, but are subject to restrictions like others. I think, therefore, that although there is some evidence that we could see, some spaces might be excluded from the ban on electronic cigarettes, such as massive too large catering areas or I know nothing else. It must surely be banned in hospitals and in public areas, where youth access is available. I think that should be the direction towards a total ban on electronic cigarettes. I do not think that it is a model that can be reproduced, and it is a process that in its chronic form, that is to say, as a chronic use for many years of electronic cigarette, we have no idea what it can create and what side effects it may have. So I think that this should also be voted on and the ban on electronic cigarettes should be generalised. For a very short time, I would like to deal with the amendments. It's at least four, if I'm not mistaken, so far. Although one withdrew I will not be able to withstand the temptation, and I will retrain the ban on selling cigarettes from burglar stores and other shops and reintroducing the old sale regime from the kiosks. As I said the other day, the procedure - or not very elegant withdrawal after the pressure from trade unions etc. - it demonstrates that this customer behaviour and the effort to serve each time different groups with ruffles and essentially concessions of monopolies to groups against others and has now ceased to function and in fact creates greater contraception and discontent. I think that the time when the return was managed this way and when the ruling party was giving little gifts to small groups, thereby ensuring a crucifixion, is a very old tactic. Unfortunately it makes the ruling party look desperately like old times. It's copying practices, which is really disappointing. We see unbelievable practices, which come from a long time ago and from pieces of the traditional political scene, which have been partly condemned by the old political formations themselves. It is a pity indeed to see such amendments. It was really wise to withdraw and hopefully no one will ever see such things, at least by this government. The second amendment I would like to comment on is an amendment of the parliamentary nature, which concerns subsidiary doctors. We have so far supported and have voted for almost all the amendments concerning staff in hospitals, since there is really a lack and gap. But transferring one problem or solving one problem with another's parallel creation neither helps nor solves problems. The abundance now and a little unscathed - in my view - of subsidiary places everywhere - even in military hospitals, if possible - is giving the impression that what is actually happening is that the cost of payroll is transferred to hospital budgets, which is balanced by the growth of debt. We are going back to a very bad practice, which has blown the health economy in the 1910s, mutatis mutandis, so that we increase the debt of hospitals by taking money from vital costs, such as materials and health material, to pay on-calls and subsidiarys. I would remind you that these were the choices of this government. This government has unlocked the possibility of transferring funds from vital functions of hospitals, vital funds from hospitals to payroll. That was forbidden in the past. At the moment there is no picture of what is happening. I know of large hospitals that have zeroed supplies for implants and materials to pay on-calls and ancillarys. This amendment will be voted against because it says that subsidiary doctors can be extended, supposedly covering organic positions that have been announced, without saying anything else. This means, in all likelihood, that doctors who occupy the organic position - whose positions have been proclaimed and, unfortunately, very few cases - will coexist for long periods with subsidiary doctors, who obviously cease to be necessary in that position. We will be asking the Ministry today to give us the full picture throughout the country of how many assistants serve, where they serve and on what criteria the recruitment is made. The picture I have is that while in the previous period the directive was "when there is money to take subsidiarys" here we have reached the point where the directive is "take subsidiary for every request and we find money for the world to ruin". It's two extreme logics, one of which doesn't serve the system.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u155	He's making a decision. Specifically!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u156	I think it is time, Mrs Jufi, after two years of government, to see criteria, programme and not attempts to appoint everywhere. Because that's what this is about. Although - and I will end with this - we were positive of any appointment, from now on we will be very critical and very careful, as it now seems that a specific strategy has been adopted which, as I said, will simply blow away once again the budget of hospitals in the air, creating a new debt crisis very soon, perhaps outside the time limits and political horizons of this government, but within the limits of real time. We cannot transfer the debt unreasonably to the future. This is a policy which has been bankrupt in the past and I am very afraid that it is now for the sake of some appointments which, I repeat, are neither sufficiently reasoned nor well justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u157	The reason is the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Thanasis Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. I believe that this bill does not require any parliamentary status at all. It's enough for me the other capacity I've had for thirty-seven years in public hospitals. I want to start and say that some of us here might not understand exactly what smoking and cigarette means. But the World Health Organisation knows very well. It is this agency that a few years ago forced all the countries of the European Union to supply used vaccines for H1N1. And when some time later it turned out that a senior employee of the World Health Organization belonged to construction vaccine companies at the same time, the fiasco took a tangible form. Three countries then did not receive any vaccines in honor of their then ministers. I say this because we are in the face of a reality that does not fit into any question. I want to invoke an example. In the rest of the animal kingdom, neither drinks any animal, nor smokes nor takes drugs. And Russo at the "Social Convention" has said that nature is avenged by those who ignore its rules. We can see that. It is not only twenty thousand deaths from smoking as Mrs Christophilopoulou said - and I have no hesitation to invoke any testimony from colleagues who say in my view - but they are much more. I just want to remind you that our country - despite the fact that my dear to me, Mr Vagionas, has corrected me in committee - is one of the countries with the highest proportion of smokers throughout the European Union. I would also like to remind you that in Sweden, the Netherlands and Denmark, countries that I know very well, this figure is less than 12%. Indeed, the citizens who smoke in these countries are not purely Danish, Swedish and Dutch but are mainly people who have come from developing countries. The same percentage in developing countries, i.e. where there is no information, which is no prevention, is up to 50% and 60%. Some just don't have money to buy cigarettes and improvise. They drink smoke themselves and so forth. I want, with all due respect, to come to a great category of people who live from their crops. I would like to remind you that the poor people of Afghanistan live from the cultivation of opium. Everyone you don't know, find out. There's nothing else going on there. There's a question coming here. Will these people live to extract opium all over the planet or something else must be done? I am of the opinion that something else needs to be done. Some people are indeed poor, well-meaning citizens, cultivating tobacco. What do we have to do? Are we helping them? What are we doing? My view is this: Slowly, not sharply, but constantly, these crops should be modified. Throw it away, you can disagree with me, but that's my opinion. I think we should slowly withdraw this crop from small Greece. Before entering my main point, I would like to say that I have friends who love them very much and who can't stop the cigarette. I say it with respect. They are sensitive people, who have made a lot of efforts to stop cigarettes and can't. Are you killing these people? Do you despise them? No, of course not. They want - I believe - they too want help. In no case should the market rules - and here I agree with the JRC - prevail over health rules. In any favoured state health is an undisputed good. It's more than anything else. Is this the case? No, it's not happening. We've seen how the world's drug society behaves. We have seen how global society treats alcohol and smoking. We think that, in a positive direction, compliance with our legislation with this directive which we are discussing today and which we shall vote on today is not something we are discussing. Is that enough? I don't think so. Small Greece can set an example. It doesn't cost anything to do with it. And I can explain: Because we have lived through public hospitals - I for thirty-seven years - I just want to remind you that the experience of the future citizen who see him melting like candles, reaching from eighty to forty pounds, we have lived it too many times. Not once, but fifty once. When our normal bed job comes to an end, we have to see such incidents. It's a shock picture. I also want, because I hear too much about electronic cigarettes, to remind the world that those who had a person in their environment who died of smoking, proven to be 99% sharply cut off the cigarette. Is this therefore a tangible proof that you have to suffer this shock? Oh, no. I'm not in favour of repression. I'll tell you where I am in favor of repression. I am in favour of information and education on cigarettes from too early, bombardment literally. When I see in a grocery store, in a kiosk of someone asking for five packs of cigarettes, I get caught inside of me. It's not only that he's throwing money, but that he's throwing it in a dangerous way, that's the feeling. And I say: we need to inform this man that what he does is the most bad thing he could do. Can't the state do that? I think he can. I would like, without eating too much time, to say that I have experienced the experience, as a newspaper coordinator at the hospital "Evangelism" that I have had the honor and luck of serving for many years, - more than thirty - of a cigarette infarction and a cigarette death, as well as strokes that left disabled people blinded by cigarettes. I am saying this in plenary because I want them to be heard, I am not in danger. It's not only lung cancer, it's some people who think it's just lung cancer, and in general nine out of ten cancers are lung cancer - it's eighteen cancers. Does anyone, for instance, know in this Chamber that one of them is bladder cancer? I would like to say that it is incredibly harmful to cigarettes and I would also like to inform you - the pediatric teacher said them the other day in the committee - that the protests in the form are terrible and terrible. The irresponsibility of a woman being pregnant and smoking or not smoking, but living in a smoking environment, is criminal for the child she will bring to the world. Does she know that her child can have troubles for the rest of his life? Do we know that passive smokers, who have no defence in the cigarette, are at times at risk from a smoker who has acquired some defence? Does a young man know that his sexual abilities are falling? Does he know a future couple that fertility, i.e. being able to catch a child, is affected by smoking? I want to recall the image - shock that I experienced on a afternoon when I finished the external medical office - I said it to the committee, and I will repeat it now, I have time - when I cried out a name, to go see it in the bed. All clinics do it for incidents that do not belong to the hospital that are hospitalized - Mr. Kaklamanis knows - and they invite us to see an incident that has something to do with our speciality. I call a name and I hear an ambulance voice somewhere in the background. When I went in front of me it says, "Doc, don't you remember me?" I say to him "I don't remember you, help me." He took me back 30 years, we were young then, we went to Corfu, like all the kids, to tourism, you know. It was really one of the most beautiful people I've ever met in my life. We did joke him, and we said, "Hey, buddy, we'll get out of Corfu with you here." He was really a very nice man, nice kid, he was a Kalamata cop. And with the voice of a dead man he says to me, "There was no one who could kick me in the slap. I smoked from seventeen years old four packages a day." In fact, he died in a week. For two months I was really shocked because I was bringing this man to my mind, how I knew him and how it happened. Oh, no! Health discounts cannot be made. I will once again say that at some point market rules impose something. And I say: will this market finally level everything? Are we going to get to the point where we can make discounts here? I don't think it's an extreme position. It's a real place. I think we should adopt it. We owe it to the people around us, to our women, to our men, to our children, to the people around us. It's proven that cigarette is catastrophic, it's damaged. I might be indifferent at the moment to the companies that are growing up like mushrooms, because they have learned that here there is money and "we're here." I am interested in the tobacco industries, which actually started with the word World Health Organization. It's nothing. This is a splendid field of glory, Minister! Article 22 - I do not remember exactly what - gives you the opportunity to intervene every time and I think you will, not only for electronic cigarette, but more generally for cigarettes. I think this campaign, the terrible campaign, will stop smoking. It'll have to take flesh and bone sometime and not to words. Of course, smoking should not be permitted in public places. I remember when I was in the Netherlands, three girls caught me and kicked me out. I was misunderstood then, the leprechaun, who had learned to make a cigarette figure. It's been years to figure out how right those girls were. They literally kicked me out at a Dutch store twenty-five years ago, and they did well. To conclude, I will recall Russo's conversation at the "Social Convention": "Natural avenges those who ignore its rules". Anyone who smokes ignores nature's rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u159	Me too, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Of course, in the Netherlands, which you mentioned twice, they have a record on top of smoking another type of cigarette that is publicly permitted and not thrown out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u160	That's more than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u161	I said some other kind of cigarette.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u162	Now do not cause me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u163	I'm telling you, I'm gonna smack you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u164	There is a great deal of trade in the Netherlands - I am sorry to say - from immigrants and not from the Netherlands. If you don't know, I'll give you the evidence whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u165	However, it is not just migrants who smoke it. The Dutch are smoking it too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u166	I was clear. I said that the large proportion of smokers there comes from other countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u167	Okay. I have a picture of the other kind of cigarette in the Netherlands. Mrs Theodora Megalo-Economics from the Centro Association have the floor and the position of the rapporteurs and special speakers has been completed. Immediately afterwards, the Minister of Health will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u168	How are we going after the Minister, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u169	The Minister for Health will speak and because they are eleven Members of Parliament, two colleagues will speak and then a parliamentary representative will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u170	I request the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u171	Mrs. Kerameau and Mr. Mandas have already been asked to speak, as she does, then to close. Then anyway, it's your turn. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of smoking in Greece is of the utmost importance, as we know, because much of the population has been smoking since the early age. So the European directive, which is being voted on today, is a positive contribution to having a uniform and stringent legislative framework throughout the European Union in an effort to protect public health. Anyone reading the whole directive and the bill understands that it is a series of good regulations. Let's get the articles. Article 3 limits the maximum emission limits for tar, nicotine, carbon monoxide per cigarette. Article 4 provides that this information is to be checked by accredited laboratories. In Article 7, tobacco products with a characteristic flavour or flavour shall be prohibited if they contain vitamins. That, in this case, is very right. The consumer is protected from buying such cigarettes and general tobacco products, which are allegedly advertised as healthy. That is right, and I think we are all in agreement. However, we should all know the reality. You will ask me: What is the reality? The reality is that we are legislating and the problem lies in the application of the laws. Globalization and the Internet have made it easy to order anything one wants via the Internet. It is now up to the customs authorities, as we know, to determine whether and whether they can do so by means of a sample check to detect what they are attempting illegally to enter the country. It is therefore absolutely essential to strengthen the staff of customs, because the work of these people is huge. Let's go to an important part of the bill, in Articles 8 to 12, in which the messages on cigarette packets are written and illustrated. So, with this, we aim to prevent citizens from smoking. Indeed, some of the photos on the packages are appalling and we hope that perhaps non-smokers will be more difficult - by this procedure - to start smoking when they reflect these images. Of course, this is where the adversarial is. As we know, commercial activity is running before this European directive. So, the tachyker fashion will come again. We will remember, Minister, the old song "Why you gave me this tampering" with Sofia Vebo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u173	Of course, for another reason it was written.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u174	Nice cases come out now, if you saw them. They've got flowers now from the outside. They have nothing to do with the packages. They have flowers, moons, they're very nice cases. So entrepreneurship runs before the law. The inventiveness of traders is always a step forward. So the smoker will not be forced to see these hard pictures described by the law, with which you think you will make him quit smoking. Also, in this bill a few days ago, you tabled an amendment, number 661/55, according to which CEDEFOP, except CEDEFOP, OKANA and AEMY, should staff be recruited additional doctors and scientists, with a service report. Evidently, the CECH and the rest of them are necessary to have appropriate staff, for they are doing important work. But, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you: should the state not have provided these services with the right scientists? And since there is such a large gap in staff, why does the Ministry of Health not recruit the staff required for permanent and permanent needs and should the other bodies at the last minute choose? In the report, in fact, of the General Accounting Office of the State states that only an additional EUR 120,000 are required every year by the CDE. We therefore consider that there are objective criteria for which specialities and with which characteristics they will be recruited in these positions. Some questions are being raised. In other words, you are preparing positions without saying which specialties, with which characteristics, which objective criteria. The amendment under number 661/55 is a little ambiguous. It surprises us, and a little troubles us. Let's move on. I come to Article 16, which is related to electronic cigarettes. It is foreseen that in the event of the sale of electronic cigarettes in another European Union state, the company that makes the sale should verify the buyer's age, so that he is obviously not a minor. Of course, in practice, not being a minor is quite right. But now I want to ask you: Can the company safely verify the age of the consumer who is thousands of miles away, who is ordering via the Internet, and what is the age? Aren't questions raised? So, on the Internet, will you order to the other end of Europe or America, and will the company know what the age of the consumer is ordering? Overall, the electronic cigarette bill has also been called into question by the traders of electronic cigarettes. We have no scientific evidence of its harmful effects and we cannot say it for sure. It is therefore very early to have safe conclusions on electronic cigarettes, but the legislator chose to ban it in public spaces. Okay, if it's right or not, I cannot make a decision, but I think we should monitor developments and act accordingly in the future. We cannot condemn it or acquittal it. Because there is the possibility that electronic cigarette may be harmful, but there is also the possibility that it may not be and that it may not be a good and harmless solution to smokers. The national legislator should therefore adapt to the findings of the investigations. The findings aren't over. We do not have analyses and substantiated answers. But, ladies and gentlemen, those of us who have participated in the committee of this bill know very well the enormous proportions of cancer and other smoking-induced diseases. We know how serious the passive smoking in Greece is. In fact, in 2016 there is no respect for public spaces. There is no cafeteria, a restaurant that clearly says that smoking is prohibited. You can go smoke, put your kids at risk and so on. This is, of course, unacceptable in a civilised country, and I say that I am a smoker - and I blame myself - but at least my grandchildren do not want when they go to a public place, forced to breathe the harmful components of smoking and should be asked, before they go in, whether they are allowed or not allowed to smoke. The fact is that the Greek feels that he can smoke anywhere, because that is based on a lack of education. I would also like to say this: we need to take an initiative to support the organised anti-smoking campaign in all the schools in the country. You'll have to in all grades, in all high school, in all high school schools to learn a lot about how bad the cigarette is. So the new generation will have the right attitude and will now have the conscience to apply it and embrace it without imposing it on it. Ladies and gentlemen, there is another dimension of the problem. As far as legislative matters are concerned, there must also be a political will to implement it. We have a smuggling of tobacco in our country and that is a terrible problem. In fact, we're talking about a giant sector of the paramilitary economy. In 2015, Minister, the Greek State lost 740m euros from cigarette smuggling. We're talking about an incredible, inconsistent amount and you let 2015 lose 740 million euros of cigarette smuggling and cut the ESA to pensioners. Even the disabled have cut benefits. Talk about it with the Minister of Finance. All these numbers appear in a small drop in 2016 and I will present the relevant post of "KATHMERINI". However, the problem remains too big. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Theodora, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned publication, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, it is not only the enormous damage of the Greek public who loses so much money, when the place is so in need, but public health too. You know that smuggling cigarettes have not passed any kind of control, they do not comply with any specifications and they are extremely dangerous and we cannot control them, that is, they have no specification and can be completely harmful to the health of consumers. Therefore, the major war is there, in the effective fight against smuggling, and we are now waiting for the results of the recently adopted Law 4411/2016 on the award of the supply of tobacco tax films by the Bank of Greece. I hope, at least, that the smuggling of tobacco is struck and that the place is rid of the catastrophic phenomenon, which the previous governments have tried, but have not succeeded. Also, the many and great revenues, what the Greek public loses in this critical time when we are living is very important to stay in our place and stop making the other cuts from the poor and the retired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, too. Mr Minister, you have the floor and I will give you the floor instead of eighteen minutes twenty minutes to say which amendments you are accepting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. I think that there has indeed been a productive debate from all sides with a contribution to tackling a major social problem, a public health problem. We all know that smoking is the first cause of early but avoidable mortality in developed countries. So for a country like Greece is indeed a huge public health problem. There is a slight retreat in recent years in the proportions of smokers in the general population and in the young population, and this is encouraging but overall the rates remain too high. The SYRIZA rapporteur also referred to this. It's about 37% to 38% with a little more superiority of men. It is also interesting that there are investigations that prove that a large proportion of high school students, over 20%, have tried, have contacted tobacco or other products, and an approximate 10% make systematic use of tobacco, systematically smokes. I think we have to face a great challenge and the great gap is, of course, that the anti-smoking law has not been implemented for eight years. With this draft law, we are closing down an institutional lack of transparency, which exists, in order to incorporate a European directive but, of course, the problem is to implement it in practice. There are also two other critical loose ends here. One concerns the application of the recently adopted law on smuggling of tobacco, which has rightly been pointed out to contribute to a very large proportion and may falsely reduce the consumption rates of cigarette smuggled. We must make this clear: firstly, we do not legislate in a vacant way. There is a very specific framework set by the 2014 European Directive and in this context we tried to move and where the directive did not give us choices, we kept exactly its letter and where we had choices, we were consciously going on a little more stringent version. We have also taken into account - and this is very important - the conclusion of the Interministerial Committee, a committee set up by cooperation between three ministries and experts from last year, since the spring of 2015, which tabled a very specific finding, and that conclusion was the basis for this draft legislation. So there are some critical assumptions in the European directive, which we need to take into account. Firstly, that tobacco products, nicotine and tobacco products are not common goods. This is a top principle. They're not standard goods. The priority in their approach should therefore be to the issue of health. Health protection should therefore be high priority. That's exactly what the preamble says. There must be high priority in the approach to these issues. Also, a second assumption is that nicotine is a toxic substance. We all know that it is a very strong psychoactive substance, but for the first time, the term 'toxic substance' enters into a legal text of the European Union. This is of great importance for how to deal with even the newer products, which, however, contain even less nicotine. The third is that the less harmful product is not accepted by the European directive. That is what I think is, too, very important. It goes without saying that this logic can be misleading. It also does not accept the logic that, on tobacco products or elsewhere, there can be allegations of a reduced effect on health or health claims. Last but not least, the European directive expressly mentions - and this is a consensus scientific and political which has been produced in Europe's institutions - that electronic cigarette can be a potential gateway to nicotine addiction, particularly to young people. In other words, that is not what the government says, the Interministerial Committee does not say. The European Union says so in its official text. With these assumptions, as shown in the debate we held in the Committee on Social Affairs at the hearing of bodies, which naturally participated in professional groups and also excellent representatives of the country's scientific community, the majority of the scientific world agrees and favours them. Of course, it has to be understood that there is a scientific dissent on these issues. It is not documented. The studies referred to are studies relating to a few incidents and do not have the specifications for a valid record and an early viewpoint, which may, where appropriate, review the approaches taken. So what we are doing is firstly that we set the framework for the movement of new tobacco products. We have consciously opted for licensing. It has given us the discretion of the European directive to go to authorisation and not to simple notification. There is no question, like what Mrs Christophilopoulou has raised. Article 19(3) of the European directive expressly states that Member States may establish a system for the authorisation of new tobacco products. That's exactly what we're doing. So there is no need for any specific type of consultation with the European institutions. We are given the authority to legislate on the basis of our own criteria. What we tried to do, however, - I must remind you that this was the Interministerial Committee's original proposal - was the deadline for submitting the dossier and expressing an opinion by the five-member committee to be a semester. We downloaded this time in a quarter. We said that if the quarter expires fruitlessly, without an opinion being given, the members of the committee should inform the Minister in writing of the reasons for the non-response, and in this case the Minister gives the opportunity for another month to complete their work. Taking into account the climate that has been shaped and the reservations of Parliament's wings, we have come up with - and I will present it now with a legislative improvement - that if the Quartet does not have the five-month period to come to an end its work - the effort we are going to do will be to complete its work and be aware of the duty to bring to the political leadership of the Ministry and to the state for a valid opinion - and without this opinion being given, the product will be released without a ministerial decision, and of course the Minister will also be obliged - not to withdraw it. This is the legislative proposal that we shall be tabling. I think it is a balanced proposal that takes into account the concern about the possible bureaucratic malfunctioning of services and the state, and I really call on the political forces that have expressed reservations and objections to this article, following this arrangement, to lift them. On the subject, too, of electronic cigarette, which has been debated a great deal, we must have an image. What we are doing is a product, which was released for about eight to ten years in the country illegally, without any authorisation, now entered into a framework. Enterprises, trading electronic cigarettes, are obliged to submit dossiers with product specifications, with nicotine contents in refill containers, etc., with strict standards that have been introduced by the European Union, this was the express direction of the directive. In this part, the European Union and its directive have left us no room for manoeuvre. They only provided for notification and not for authorisation. However, with the requirement in a six-month period of time that the dossier should be submitted, which will provide the details of each product which is released and thus give us the guarantees that we have on the market in relation to safe products. Now, too, what we have decided is not to exclude electronic cigarettes from the bans on classical cigarettes in the designated areas, that is to say, the law, which, of course, we know is not actually applicable. I believe that this is also an important message in a country with very large proportions of smokers in the Greek population and, above all, there is a regime of immunity, lack of control and impunity for those who violate the law. I think there will be a message that there are spaces of respect for the right of non-smokers, which are the majority of society, not to contact, neither with our smoke nor with our steam, and that there are spaces which must be guarded, either by classical smoking behaviour or by its simulation. That's the idea. We think it is a step forward in changing social awareness, which, of course, takes time to change definitively and overthrow this climate of transgression and lawlessness, which exists. It wants coordinated efforts from the state primarily, which is responsible for the implementation, but also requires the coexistence of both the scientific community and the social organisations and the political forces. And, obviously, everyone's personal attitude has its role in this. A wish is expressed many times by fellow Members that we need to find a balance between public health and the functioning - let us say - of the market, the individual interests associated with this area and so on. You know very well that this balance is not easy. It is very difficult to balance between public health and the market. There is heterogeneous interests and objectives and it is very difficult to find this balance. So we have consciously chosen in this dilemma to squeeze the ballast towards the side of public health. And, of course, one must take into account the economic and social consequences and possibly make compensatory interventions. But for us, for the Ministry of Health, which recommends this bill, priority can be no more than public health. Of course, we cannot get into the logic, as I have said before, of the least harmful, in this logic that the industry claims to have its new products. We cannot go into a sense of being the regulators of business competition. What we want to guarantee is the safety of products, which are related to this harmful product, which is nicotine and tobacco, but above all the protection of individual and public health. We therefore want a culture of respect for human rights to be established in the country, because human rights are actually being violated in this part. It is an antisocial behaviour to smoke in public, closed spaces, where people who may find years of obstructive lung disease may be found, depriving them of the possibility of a social situation, such as all others have - or other chronic illness patients who cannot be exposed to passive smoking. It is not medically centred, we have said so from the outset, because that is why there has been a charge. It is the logic of protecting public health, prevention and health education, that is, it is an anthropcentric approach. And we really prefer to blame that we may make certain arrangements that risk a bureaucratic distortion than being accused of making discounts in the logic of public health. So I think there is an important step in this bill. The next steps are, however, the most important, i.e. the steps to be taken. I believe that political determination, scientific documentation, social coexistence, the contribution of each individual personally and collectively, is needed in order to make climate change and corresponding maturity at all levels and, of course, in society, which will really enable our country to harmonise, with what is happening in the developed world, in Europe, so that we do not continue with this insulting - I think - and for our culture and for our culture an exception from this regulatory framework. I would therefore like to close - with introductory words - my position and refer to what I said earlier that I will table a body of legal improvements - there are seven in the number - which I will present shortly. I just don't have the time to get into details now. We have taken into account as much as we could and the contributions made during the debate in the committee. There is a ministerial amendment concerning the JET.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u177	Minister, before Parliamentary Representatives speak, have tabled the legislative improvements, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u178	I can testify to her now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u179	Finish now. After that, I would ask you to submit it, but before the parliamentary representatives begin to take it into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u180	All right, fine, Mr. President. However, it is the main thing I told you before. But the ERCF amendment requires a debate. Well, that's what you're saying, but know the following: Firstly, we have enabled the CEEC to declare thirty-five permanent posts in a certain way of undetermined staff to cover time gaps. This has been happening since 2006. Since then, there have been staff recruitments at the CEDEFOP. This regulation is about a specific problem that exists. We have seven psychodiagnostic centers. They were financed by the NRP. Last year, the funding period ended. We found a solution. An eight-month contract was awarded through the CEDEFOP, which now expires on 14 September and cannot be renewed. So we are giving the CEFD the opportunity to move forward with permanent positions and thus cover the vast majority of the needs of these psychodiagnostic centres, which are doing an excellent job in the field of dual diagnosis - it is a very critical intervention - with a blockage to take about twenty-five or twenty-five employees, to fill this gap so that there is no problem with the therapeutic continuity and care of dependent people. That's why he's getting in. This possibility was in any case available to all other entities except the CECHA. Now we're giving it to the CEDEFOP. We've been asked by the C.E.E.L.E.L.D. itself. Secondly, we are accepting the amendment by the SYRIZA Members that removes this proposal from the regulation on the extension of the term of office of subsidiary doctors, which says 'if the position has not been announced', because it could create a problem in covering current gaps, because a crisis procedure has been initiated, but Mr Barriots also knows that it is particularly important for doctors to have enough time to complete. So only the announcement of the position would create a problem. Obviously the trend is to strengthen recruitment with permanent staff and to cover the gaps in the health system. You know very well that seven hundred sixty seats have already been opened. The last corresponding notice - if I remember correctly - took place in 2010. There's a great deal of interest. There are places for which eighty, ninety and hundred doctors have submitted their papers for one post. Many of them are already abroad and show a tendency to reverse the current of immigration abroad, when they got the signal that the state starts and backs up the public health system. We do not want, obviously, there is no plan to transfer the cost of recruitment to hospital budgets. But we have increased the corresponding allocation. We've almost doubled it over last year. It was 34 million. We first went to EUR 60 million, and it is already at EUR 82 million, because it is precisely at this difficult time that we wanted to have the easy and relatively short solution to fill gaps through subsidiary doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u181	You referred to the amendment - you did not say the number - with a general number of 660 and a special number 54.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u183	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u184	Also, with regard to the two identical amendments made by the JRC and the PASOK concerning the workers in the Ottawa Cleansing Sector, the information...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u185	They're not exactly identical. It's about the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u186	Yeah, they're about the same thing. They're obviously not. They have another policy...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u187	There is a proposal for an indefinite period.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u188	Deal. So I say that I have been informed by the Ministry of the Interior that special arrangements are being prepared. There will be - I think - a bill next week from the Ministry of the Interior which will include dealing with this issue. Anyhow, from what I saw by the end of the year, do we have room for it or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u189	They should be extended by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u190	Expand. Anyway, these are handled by the Ministry of Interior and will make the corresponding move. There is also an amendment tabled by the President-in-Office. It is the general number 658, and special 52, which calls for the possibility of extending the term of office of doctors of the ERC beyond the sixty-seventh year of age, invoking the real problem, that there may indeed be a gap in the staffing of the health system with experienced doctors and a high term of office in the ERC. I think this issue, although it has a logic - because the proposal says that it can remain in place until the position has been fulfilled - but it is problematic that this approach, which says that we should continuously extend - and beyond the usual biological limits - working life of people who have contributed to the health system and have obviously testified their experience and knowledge. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] We are at a stage where we are urging new positions, and there is a request for the renewal of the human resources system, which we must send the signal to young doctors, as I said before, which is abroad that this country can give them the opportunity of a decent professional and scientific outlet. So, then, we're in a phase where the system starts and hires young doctors. I believe that she is opposed to this reasonable amendment. We don't make it acceptable. A similar request has been made for both university doctors and, in consultation with the Ministry of Education, it is also negative to extend working life beyond the sixty-seventh year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed with the speeches of the Members of Parliament and of the Members of Parliament. A parliamentary representative and two speakers will be speaking. We'll try to get rid of the list. Parliamentary representatives have the floor for twelve minutes and my fellow speakers for seven minutes. Let's start with my colleague, Mrs. Kerameau.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u192	In violation of the Rules of Procedure. The first six speakers should have spoken, and then the Minister. Unacceptable, once again!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u193	Mrs. Kyrame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider it to be a sign of political culture that, in the preparation of this draft law in the committee responsible, a climate of consensus has been established at least around the main direction, but also the necessity of the draft law. I consider a sign of political culture that everyone in this Chamber, smokers and not, agrees that smoking is a major risk factor, a serious public health problem, and that we should legislate on any action to combat it. But I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, what is all this worth when the Minister responsible for the protection of public health smokes in the Ministry of Health's conference room and this photo takes a round of the Internet? What is all this worth - and now I am addressing all Parliament's wings - when, within Parliament itself, the anti-smoking law has been passed, does not apply the same law? In order to speak openly, clearly, tarrat, with the exception of the Chambers of Parliament and the committees, there is hardly any room within the House where the ban on smoking is respected. Finishing room, party halls, secretaries, hallways, toilets, everywhere cigarette! Ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago I had the happiness of being pregnant as a Member of Parliament. I am sad and disappointed to tell you that I have been struggling to find room within Parliament, in which I and the unborn child are not forced to suffer smokers. I went from chair to chair, to sofa, because someone was always smoking next to me. Ladies and gentlemen, it's sad, but it's also outrageous. If we first do not apply the laws, how do we expect citizens to do so? On this occasion too, I would like to ask the Bureau of Parliament for self-evident treatment to finally implement the anti-smoking law within this House. And I come now to the bill, although I do not have much to add, because our rapporteur has analysed in detail the parameters of incorporation into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/40 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union concerning the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products. As we all know, there was an earlier directive, 2001-37, which had to be updated. It had to be updated, among other things, because there were new scientific investigations demonstrating the adverse consequences of the use of tobacco products. It had to be updated because new products appeared and spread, such as electronic cigarette. It had to be updated because there were investigations showing, among others, that stricter rules on advertising and the use of tobacco products have a positive effect, both on the individual health of smokers and non-smokers and on the public health system in general. Whatever the reasons why it was necessary to tighten this directive up, above all it promotes the high priority that governments must attach to the protection of public health. Unfortunately, this cannot be claimed for our country, when we have a anti-smoking law introduced since 2008 and eight years later, it is almost nowhere to be applied, not only to the good of public health, but also to any concept of the legal order. It is insulting to all of us when all the countries of Europe have integrated and implemented - because implementation is crucial - anti-smoking legislation with strict rigour, we are constantly gaining negative foundations. I consider it important that the Step forward be made to say some truths, as they are unrelentingly formulated by the force of numbers. According to a survey by the Eurobarometer in May 2015, Greece has the highest proportion of smokers at European level: 37% -38% compared to 26%, which is the European Union average. Secondly, smoking is responsible for some seven hundred thousand early deaths in the European Union every year. Third element: One in four deaths in people over thirty-five years of age is associated with smoking. Fourth element: About 90% of regular smokers began smoking before the age of eighteen. Fifth element: One in three children aged twelve to eighteen have tried smoking, while one in ten children of the same age not only have tested it, but they are already addicted to smoking. And these figures, ladies and gentlemen, do not only reflect the damage caused by smoking in public health. The consequences are also dramatic in the economy. Public health systems are charged with EUR 25 billion every year because of smoking, which exceeds 1.5% of GDP, with an increase of approximately 2% per year. In Greece, during the crisis, there is a charge of EUR 3.5 billion a year for smoking. The loss of productivity in the European Union due to smoking is estimated at EUR 8 billion per year and is also increasing at an annual rate of 2%. And I stop here. Allow me to make a reference to the Ministerial Amendment, which allows the CSE to cooperate with doctors, nurses, therapists, former dependants, to meet its needs in staff. In principle, we have no objection, as the CEC has to function unreservedly. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all very well aware of the financial constraints and the rules governing recruitment in the public sector. And we all know in this Chamber the possibilities for new recruitment and that these are limited, despite the fact that the lack of staff, especially in health institutions, is causing enormous needs and malfunctions, which can even lead to the loss of human life, while, on the other hand, there are public services, which are overstaffed. However, ladies and gentlemen, for twenty months you have been in power, you have not stopped hiring naughty, unscheduled and, above all, without prior investigation of needs. Who's gonna pay the bill you're currently getting so generously up to stay good at party customers? Most of all, how do you plan to meet real needs in public health, in public education? The real needs of meeting when you have spent the quata of hiring for horizontal re-intakes, for example, in 2015? I will close and be brief, Mr President, with two comments from the news. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I can only make a brief reference to what was said yesterday in the Committee of Inquiry into Media Loan. What was revealed yesterday in the Committee of Inquiry? From the statement of the CEO of the newspaper 'AUGI' it emerged that, first, 'AUGI', with daily sales of only a thousand leafs and a negative credit record - I recall that 'AUGI' had made a payment stop, debt write-off, all of this was confirmed yesterday by the CEO of the newspaper 'AUGI' - received a loan in 2009 of EUR 1.2 million, which was then made EUR 1.5 million. I ask this: How did he get this loan? He took it on the basis of a letter from SYRIZA to the bank, not a guarantee in the legal sense of the term, but a letter, which he said? He said that little - very much SYRIZA is the boss and therefore is the so-called "father declaration", that the boss of AUGY is SYRIZA. A second point which was revealed yesterday is the following. AUGI, with daily sales of just a thousand five hundred cards, received advertising from banks amounting to 470,000 euros. Third, the CEO of "AGE" has repeatedly refused to disclose the name of the natural person behind an offshore company, which was located on the SGEI's blog. In fact, the representative of the newspaper said: 'I am not saying the name 'no noise'. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, what does HUMAN have to hide? Why does it have to become noise if the name of the natural person behind offshore media is revealed? Last one revealed, very importantly, is this: It was revealed that SYRIZA financially supports the newspaper through its state funding and this, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA, is a flagrant violation of Law 4304/2014. Look at it, it's Article 1. What does this article say? It says that when the party is financed by the state, this money can be spent for the following purposes: for operational expenditure, for electoral expenses, for scientific and for educational purposes. He cannot give the money that Greek taxpayers pay to the parties to invest in mass communication. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems finally that the triangle - model interactive media, banks well hold on to SYRIZA. I will make a second comment and close, Mr President, from time to time. Last week it was passed on to Zula - if you allow me the term - with a legislative improvement at the last minute in the Ministry of Education's bill, a provision enabling members of the EIB and of the EDPS to become lecturers in closed procedures, that is to say, against what is normally envisaged for the listing of lecturers and teachers. Opposition has risen, the academic community has risen, and what are we reading today? Today we read that the relevant Minister has given a mandate to freeze the application of this law that was just passed last week. I ask, ladies and gentlemen, is that how you legislate? Is that a way to legislate? Is that a way to rule? Are you voting and voting according to the reactions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Kerameus. Minister, did you say you wanted to make legislative improvements now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, I am presenting them. It's seven legal improvements. I developed one before. On the other hand, I have taken into account two comments made by Mr Yoyakas in the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs. They're real improvements. You'll see the changes, it's nothing special. We have also reintroduced a proposal from the Central Legislative Committee. We have reintroduced this regulation, although there has been a recommendation to remove a paragraph. What is important is this: in this five-member committee there has been a reservation as to how the committee will be set up, if the EOF or the Pulmonary Society do not designate representatives and, if necessary, whether there is a delay, etc. So we add a verse which says that if these relevant bodies are not designated, then the Minister for Health also designates these persons, an official of the IFO with an appropriate cognitive object - to have audit experience and so on. - and a Pulmonary Director of the ESS or a Pulmonary Member, if there is for some reason a difficulty in setting up the Committee, so the issue of delays in the setting-up and processing of the procedure and the licensing process is left behind. These are the main changes. I'm tabling them for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u197	My colleague, Mrs. Merope Jufi, from SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, although a climate of consensus has prevailed today, since I was in Step after the New Democracy Parliamentary Spokesman, our Parliamentary representative will obviously respond - I would just like to say the Greek saying 'The thief is shouting to fear the housekeeper'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u199	For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u200	I would like to make two small indicative comments. New Democracy is the party that owes and has borrowed over EUR 200,000, 000, respectively, and much more has been borrowed by the PASOK party - which, obviously, no one knows when to pay off. Of course, he has not given an answer for the unpaid loan of the Mitsotakis family to Piraeus Bank by "KERYKA KANNIS", to which the current president of the New Democracy is a shareholder. I repeat that this is not the purpose of my speech, and I move on to the same part, in the Ministry of Health bill today. I will obviously repeat a few things that have already been said. It is a bill concerning the production and movement of tobacco products, i.e. an important sector of Greek society. He is trying to combat smuggling, I think - and with the legislative improvements accepted by the Minister - a balanced, reliable and complete licensing system, despite the objections and reservations made about bureaucracy, and also attempts to ensure that tobacco and production equipment are handled properly. However, what I should like to talk about above all is the provisions relating to the sphere of protection of public health, namely active and passive smoking, with particular reference to electronic cigarettes, where this legislation constitutes, as the Minister said, the adoption of a European directive on this subject. Because of my medical capacity, you will allow me, as I have said before, to focus mainly on this. The very large impacts on serious chronic problems and diseases for smokers, as well as increased mortality, are known. It has already been said that we are the first country of smokers in Europe, with one third of our population smoking, mainly men, but, unfortunately, with ever-increasing participation by women, while banning certain enclosed spaces is systematically being circumvented. An important parameter, which I would like to highlight because I think it is systematically degraded and took many years to highlight its serious effects, is passive smoking. As a pediatrician and pediatrician, I told you - and I told the committees - that smoking during pregnancy has been associated with an increased risk of abortion, early delivery, deficient pupils, while proven to lead to severe micro-heading, resulting in the birth of children with a very increased risk of neuro-development problems, less or more serious. In addition, exposure to passive parental smoking in neonatal and infanthood increases the risk of sudden death, severe infections of the upper and lower respiratory tract, occurrence or worsening of bronchial asthma, neurodeveloping problems and others. In the longer term, it appears to increase by 20% the possibility of subsequent cardiopathies, lung disease and different types of cancers. This is why bibliographically the very dramatic figure is that fifty thousand children die annually from passive smoking. If one puts the WHO data on research into ninety-two countries, one will see that numbers are growing dramatically, as the number of adult deaths by passive smoking touches the six hundred thousand a year. And, unfortunately, we also have the Greek evidence that 28% of Greeks are exposed to passive smoking at home, while 79% - look out! - has to smoke other people's tobacco in public places such as work and entertainment areas. Our aim, therefore, has been said by many - it must be to observe the existing law that is systematically violated in public, private and closed areas, possibly by tightening up its framework - and we have agreed that it will be the subject of a separate debate - and, of course, of changing culture and the level of consciousness surrounding smoking as such. If, in other words, we think that only by criminalising and banning smoking in enclosed areas, we will solve the problem, then the bet will not be won. We should focus on continuing and extending a serious anti-smoking campaign with emphasis on rehab, of course respecting dependent smokers who retain the private right to their choice with the availability of special medical facilities, but also reliable methods and accessible products. And there are serious efforts in this direction. But, above all, it will be a prevention premium so that we can say that we have a successful policy on smoking and its disastrous consequences. And at this point, we have to say about the hopeful elements of ELSTAT which show that in the last seven years the stable smokers and 13% of the incidents have been reduced, while it is very interesting that the age group of 16 to twenty-four years has fallen by 33% since 2009, while on the other hand the same figures show a very large increase in passive smoking. And now I come to the electronic cigarette, which has already won a significant market share and is advertised as a healthy alternative to conventional smoking. However, more and more studies question this view by pointing out a number of risks relating both to the short-term but mainly to the long-term use of these steaming appliances. In addition, the positive effects of electronic cigarette on the interruption of the normal product are seriously questioned. It is not an approved scientific method of rehab, as was submitted by all the scientific companies involved, but also by international data. Also, steaming as a simulation of smoking behaviour can be, especially for young people, an alternative. And there are recent studies, i.e. the starting point of smoking culture, nicotine addiction and the starting point of dependence, both at the level of social behaviour and at the level of biochemical reality. There were voices that accused us of being too strict in banning steaming in the public space. However, recent studies conclude that the use of electronic cigarettes produces emissions of aerosols, aromatics, heavy metals, nanoparticles and nicotine. It is therefore a new source of polluting chemicals, which, of course, require other studies to prove, as has been done - and it has taken many years - that traditional passive smoking. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I would like to say that the Health Ministry's bill is on the road to guaranteeing public health, and not, as has been said, happily by a few - the committees and the media, on the road to the normalisation of the one or other package of business interests. That is precisely because the problem is very serious and needs more and in-depth study, until there is evidence of the risk or not of electronic cigarettes, we have decided to tighten up the framework of the provisions. For us, ladies and gentlemen, public health is a priority. In fact, some of us have served her in practice for many decades. Our experience, rather than our political view, dictates that this multi-factor problem must be dealt with in a multi-dimensional manner by means of interventions that form a single framework from prevention to disarmament. In this direction we will move forward, reconstituting primary health care - one of the next legislative initiatives of our Ministry and our Government as a whole - by providing the necessary medical knowledge and coverage to the Greek population, in a matter - not the only one, there are more - important and threatening for man and his environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction "Structuring the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Cross-border Police Cooperation". Now, Mr Georgios Vagionas from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this issue has been exhausted in committee. In the House too, however, Mr Yoyakas has said so very well, and I agree entirely - like the parliamentary representative, Mrs Kerameos, on smoking and on the 'ethical advantage', the so-called SYRIZA. I'm closing this parentheses. I will try not to repeat what the previous speakers have said and they have been told in detail in committee. But I want to say things about all the colleagues who were not in the committee. The electronic cigarette works with a battery that heats the liquid it contains. And the liquid it contains is four things: Propylene glycol, glycerol, nicotine and aromatics. We put it in tobacco products because it has nicotine, like other substances are completely harmless. Uh, no, they're not harmless, and I'll prove it. Since aerosols contain fewer chemicals and substances than tobacco from real cigarettes, they are considered as safe alternatives to cigarettes, but it is shown that this is not harmless. And I will say that from the experience of centuries of common smoking, millions of studies are known. The experience of nicotinous abort devices, however, counts less than ten years. For steamers passive smoking does not exist. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Wait! The next generation will show whether or not it is, bearing in mind the active smoking of all people. Who, Mr. Jufi, was speaking in medicine thirty years ago about passive smoking? Nobody. You said it and I stress it to show the truth. Why wasn't there? Because then they were peculiar employees who were smoking their neighbor. But he accepted that it was literally disastrous. Now, they claim that electronic cigarette helps stop smoking. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This is demonstrated by the only - I believe - study carried out by a group of people in five hundred seventy-seven existing studies. In fact, the thirty-eight of them also entered the immigrant program. I will not say about metalysis, because special statistical knowledge is needed. What was found, however, is that the percentage that quit smoking was 28% lower than those who used electronic cigarettes compared to those who did not use it. This study exists and is available to everyone. As far as those who say that there is no health risk - again with an analogy - of twenty-seven studies and twenty-six incidents have been found to have effects - on healthy people - both on respiratory and cardiovascular and gastrointestinal and immunological. Also, there are battery explosion accidents, even nicotine suicide poisoning with four deaths. So those people who say it's completely harmless. In response to the community of Greek steamists, the bill does not move in the wrong direction. The right conclusion is that what prohibits common smokers also applies to steamers. I believe that one of the main factors - the most important to me - risk - is smoking. Obesity is also diabetes mellitus, etc. We're leaving this. I shall, however, give you an analogous example, which is of great commercial significance. When I finished my medicine, the cholesterol levels were in two hundred and fifty. If I'm wrong, fix me. After thirty years we went to two hundred twenty. Now it's two hundred, and soon we'll go to eighty. All the dairy industries in America would close, the unemployment problem would explode and have implemented it. Nowadays, however, there are the pharmaceutical companies that are investigating and saying, 'please drop them even a little'. And we get to Greece to have pharmaceutical expenses of about one billion a year for antihypertensives and anticholesterol medicines. Do you disagree with my fellow doctors? That's the real situation. I owe this post to one, one and a half minutes to congratulate the Anticancer, the Cardinal, the Pulmonary Society - especially Panos Behraki, who is also the Greek government responsible for this bill in Brussels. They have been recommended and will be implemented by Europeans. So here's a first we have, a good first. And we must improve it. As regards tobacco products for the last ten years, you remember what negative propaganda has been done with photos, poor pictures of lungs, livers, hearts, filters, no filter, finer cigarettes, different paper, mastic gums etc. However, what I would like to stress is that in the next bill one should come up with a way of learning, knowing what flavourings are and how dangerous each one is. If you read - and I recommend it - you will be surprised and say 'no' to the electronic cigarette. If today we do not apply what is true of ordinary smokers and electronic cigarettes, we will mourn victims, which I cannot predict. I'm just confirming it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Now, as far as the permits are concerned, and who will give them. My Minister, you have such good scientists and partners. Find the best way to deceive the ministry a bit of licenses and bureaucracy. Thank you and excuse me for the 20-second diversion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Independence, Mr Loverdos, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, I will address myself in my position on two issues relating to the draft law, which - Mrs Christophilopoulou has analysed with a sufficient degree of vigour - we will vote. I shall, however, extend to two issues of general political interest, which, as a parliamentary representative, I have the opportunity to make by the Rules of Procedure. Minister, when I took over in September 2010, it was only a matter of days, the application of Law 3868/2010, which was proposed to the House by Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou. I would like to speak a little bit about it, and I shall also submit some documents. I am trying to tell you today - and I told the committee yesterday and we had a little misunderstanding - that when the Ministry of Health gives the message that we are smoking, you cannot say what you say here. The other directive, of course, is correct - but your general references. You're a doctor. You have a member of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who insults you personally, and after a few months you come here to introduce a draft law and generalize the debate. You don't have a political right to generalization. You typically have the right to say whatever you want. Any minister in your position would have kicked him out of the ministry, and if the Prime Minister covered him, the Minister himself would have resigned, he would have created a political issue, not what you have done to pass it, as if you hadn't seen it. Because you've seen it. If I remember correctly - I'm not sure about that - you were next door. The second thing I want to tell you is that, perhaps, if I am well informed, it limits the right to speak to a minister, is that you do not have control over the application of the anti-smoking law at all. You're out of your mind. You are not the only one responsible and the previous ministers of the New Democracy did the same. The actions that you have developed as Ministry - I am not referring to Mr Behraki - are limited. Mr President, I would like to submit my own press releases and what I have been trying to do, Mr Xanthi, ladies and gentlemen. I also supplemented the legislation prohibiting smoking in a car when there is a small child. Mr Chryssogonos, your MEP, Greece that has not done so - did not know - while Great Britain did this last year. You don't even know that. You also did not expose us to the problems, to have the National Representation of the issues you have. Because you have issues. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the law had to be implemented with the Ministry of Health’s SPS auditors. It wasn't enough. How many are there, Mr. Xanthi, for the whole country? Forty? Somewhere so many. I asked the Prime Minister at the time, who was also a precursor to the fight against smoking, the support of the Ministry of Public Order, the Police, and the Minister of Public Order at that time and the Prime Minister at that time said to me: 'No, it is another job for the police'. The only thing I did was the assistance of the Minister of Labour, which allowed me to be checked by the auditors. Did the municipalities work with the City Police then? Oh, no. I had even made specific complaints against two major municipalities in my region, not to mention other regions. Note that I'm a smoker, but I know how to respect each other's rights. I know that a Minister of Health, even on the court, in an open space to be photographed, can't stand in his place. He can't stand in his place. It's this area. There are people in the European Union who smoke, politicians like Junker. Minister of Health, it can't be a smoke show. It can't be done. It's a definite contradiction. They're not helping the municipalities. They said mayors of large municipalities at the time, Minister, "But we have the municipal police for parking, for one thing, for the other, we can't make it". Others said, "Don't get me in trouble." You know very well that the problem is going to the sanitary stores where the other one goes with his children and is the other side and with cigars many times, while we in Parliament say these. I do not know if Mrs Kundura has told you - she should have done so - that, for the Minister of Tourism, it is worse to ban smoking, but everyone is not allowed to smoke. Why does the tourist ask, "It is allowed or forbidden?" he is told that it is forbidden, but everyone smokes to the humiliation of the country. You should have come and tell us what the problems are now. I'm transferring mine that I had at the time. Maybe they've changed the data. But what you cannot tell me has changed is that everyone smokes everywhere. I'm talking about sanitary shops. If we want to be serious, ladies and gentlemen of the majority - because I have heard your rapporteur, who is a doctor, my fellow professor of medicine, and I imagine that in the Standing Committee and other doctors you will have the floor or you will take him here later in plenary - or you will say what is going on with this or you will say, it is good to incorporate the European Union directive with you, but the problem is another. On the second health issue - to close with the questions of competence of this Minister - that is, the amendment by the SYRIZA Members you have accepted, for the assistants, I do not have an accurate picture of the matter today. However, Mrs Christophilopoulou has informed you of what she has said to me, as well as Mr Barriotas - who is a colleague of yours in medicine, and a member of the ESS - who mentioned from the Step before that the way you do so, creates individual local inflations in clinical trials and leaves other cases of clinical leave. Our proposal is to see it rationally, and if you can get the colleagues' amendment to take it out of the field of customer relations and put it in the field of rationalisation, which definitely needs a system that all of it leaves people and should...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u205	It has nothing to do with what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u206	Ma'am, you heard me. I've been invoked as a colleague. If he's wrong, the Minister will say so. But it may not, because I know something from it too, I hear the argument. The dialogue will show the correctness or wrongness of the arguments. Now more generally, Mr President, I asked Vice-President Kaklamani, as he has repeatedly done in the National Representation, that the Minister for the Interior should come and tell us about the floods and disasters. It is not opposition, because you remember that with Mr Muzala too - I had asked him and had come - a very useful job had been done. I don't know if the government has announced measures while we're here. However, having a picture from the media since the morning and last night where people spoke and not politicians, I understood that this is a very big matter. Of course, death helps you understand in second. There are people who have destroyed their homes. The government must react. He'll react. But it would be better - and it is better - until the meeting, whether or not it is in the Chamber or not, for the Minister of the Interior to come and talk. You see how we deal with this, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. Do you remember what you said in every disaster? Do you remember what you said to every suicide? Still some of your ex-boyfriends online tell us something about suicides of people today. Remember what you were saying and what your children were saying, in the morning halls, in the channels that were calling you and making you feuded by some. Do you remember them? You don't remember them. Loss of recent memory, short political logic. Everything we've made in speculation, we've made it, now we're forgetting it and doing the managers of power. In any case, the Minister for the Interior is expected. We're not asking the Minister for Health, because he obviously doesn't know. The Minister for the Interior, however, has to inform - if he has not already done so - of the measures which the government intends to take immediately to deal with the problem of people. Now before we say about the draft law, the Minister of Development spoke about growth and gave some evidence in his way. We've become accustomed to Mr. Stathakis now. The given, ladies and gentlemen, is that even if the recession remains at 0.3% of the first quarter of 2016, compared to 2014 the Gross Domestic Product will be less than 2 billion. Even with 0.3%. Minister, you are obliged - and we will see it in a few months' time, we will be fine, with the budget - to tell us where you will find these two hundred million which you have made at the beginning of the political year by voting for the 2016 budget. Where are you going to get them? Here all the ministries say, as the Minister for Education said a few days ago, that their budget is increasing. Where will you find them if the year closes with a recession? I am not telling you the recession predicted by others who reach it and 2%. I'm talking about 0.3% of the first quarter. I also ignore 0.9% of the second quarter of 2016. Where will the hospitals and education find the money if the Gross Domestic Product falls? How many fewer taxes does that mean and how many contributions less that means? I shall mention briefly two last issues, as far as I can, because I don't have time. Ladies and gentlemen, you have referred to the parties' Committee of Inquiry loans, media loans. First of all, generally for the media, ladies and gentlemen, their loans are, as the majority Members say, 1.3 billion over these years. Only 35% of them have not been settled. The others have been returned and paid. A huge part of these concerns the 'TELETYTON', since it began to close. Ask the aggregates so far for the Committee of Inquiry and your colleagues will tell you. Yesterday, let us say, the 'AUGY' which came - of course - but also the 'PARAPOLICA', the papers by Mr Kurtakis who came, said that they were not required. A few days ago, "KATHMERINI" said the same thing. A few days ago the rest of the channels came, the Nearmenis, all of them, the "STAR", and they pay for their loans. So with what you say by insulting us - not them, but us - that you have not taken it, sea-loving, etc., you are a liar. Ask your colleagues there. Today we are in the House, which is a political body rather than an examination. I was absolutely opposed to SUNDAY coming yesterday. It is, however, a political matter to tell us who has the offshore stock of 2.5% of the shares in "SGEI". This is a political issue, it's not a matter of examination. I was quite opposed to the exam and to the fact that AUSYIA, like others who do not owe, who owe it, but the political issue exists. Why don't you say the name? In reply to me, the Director of "AGEY" said: "I am not saying the name, so that no noise is created." Are you all right? He also told me: 'The law does not impose it'. I didn't know. I have, however, here the existing legislation, which imposes denomination on the last person, and that is what all banks do when a media asks for a loan. You're exposed for no reason. Are you hiding anyone? Are you afraid of anyone? Is there someone you don't want to say who he is? What's happened? I was very mild in the examination yesterday - ask me, ladies and gentlemen. It's on the Parliament's channel. I repeat that I didn't want AUSY to come and I insist that its contribution was useless, but this is a more general political issue. It's not about exams, it's nothing. Are you afraid? Who is it? Why don't you call him? There's another lie that's moving - and that's what I'm finishing - and it's insulting us. I have not yet had a colleague in the media to tell me, but I was listening to your parliamentary representative saying so to Mr Teddy who did not react this morning. He said they didn't pay all those years of lawlessness. He said it and you say it. I don't have any focus. I will now add them, but a channel that the day before yesterday took off these, 'STAR', I saw a seventeen million frequency rental tax. A little, you could say. Well, we could raise it or raise it. A special TV tax, a hundred and fifty-six million. Other channels with larger viewing reach three hundred or even seven hundred million. Taxes on employees, special contributions and taxes at the end of the financial year. Whoever says that again, that these years have been taken off by the poachers who have not paid while paying for them... One had a question that you borrowed with eighty million in the spring, you - on your day - and a bank with too many political participation that continues to do so. Today, Mr President, the Minister of State said that the control of things would only concern the first dose. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been identified with certain people. I wonder how you have not yet had strong disagreements within your party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Leonidas Gregorakos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I take this opportunity as an Independent MEP, to say a few words other than the agenda, of course, in the context of the national disasters that took place yesterday and the day before yesterday in Greece. I want to condone the relatives of the victims and tell the government that we are here with you. The government has to bend over the problems these social groups face, especially farmers and citizens throughout Greece, from the catastrophic floods. I want to say two things about my region, Laconia, in particular about the region of the Municipality of Euros and the river Euros and the bridge of Euros, but also to connect this to the economists and people who in the summer, while the municipalities wanted to go deforestation and clean up the wells, the winters and the river, appealed to the Council of State and canceled these efforts of the municipalities. Not that these fellow citizens have no rights to ecology and the environment, but we must see all of this with a measure so that it does not bring disaster and we also have loss of life, Minister. So I believe that at the moment the government, its members, will fall over the great problems of the rural economy and all the other problems that these catastrophic rains have caused and will give a solution. I was expecting the Minister of Interior, Mr Kourublis, but also the Minister for Rural Development, or Mr Spirtzis, to tell us about these disasters. Another point, Mr President, which I would like to raise, was the issue of sport and I saw these days that they visited the House. It is very nice that the President of Parliament, the Government and the President of the Republic accept the Olympics. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise this issue because Greek culture is based on four pillars. We do not want them, we do not recognize them, these are the pillars: The philosophy, education and culture of Greece, our democracy, sport and the Church, Orthodoxy. I do not know whether these pillars are of particular importance, but on an international level, we are negligible and not the repeated discrimination of some other states and not of Greece. I would like to say that we need to take advantage of the spirit of olympism and bring back old proposals, which will give the country another way out of the problems of sport and olympism. I think that we should take advantage of this because it is a comparative advantage for Greece. They have left in recent years because of the crisis, some proposals that were there for something different in Elia and Olympia, but I would like to say that there are also amazing sections in the universities in Greece - about ten - which can deal with this management of sport and the organisation. Of course, in Sparta there is such a part that we need to act on it, because it can offer the maximum on this issue. Mr Minister, I come to the matter of ours which we are discussing here today. I shall begin with the amendment of the CEDEFOP. It's right, you need to move on. We're saying it's in the right direction. Go ahead and do a lot more on the drugs issue. As regards the assistants, I agree, but I have another approach. My approach is that all these auxiliary, dear Minister, who are presently present in the National Health System should be integrated into permanent posts of curator C'. Everyone who is, we'll set the criteria, we'll discuss it here, we need them and we'll go for curator III and then we'll proclaim as many vacant posts as there are bishops and there will be hierarchy. We cannot operate the hospitals without the subsidiary. So join them in the single payroll, in the health ministry's budget, and everything will go well and nobody will blame you or Mrs. Jufi or anyone who increases hospital budgets and expenses. I oppose Mr Kaklamani's amendment, which you have seen with some positive eye. No, Minister, that's enough. Sixty-seven is enough for all of us. You can't put surgeons in hospitals, shake their hands and operate. We're done. That's how well we are. I see, my dear Saki, good friend, you agree. We're done with this, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u209	I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u210	I think we did what we did. However, it is a question of the proposal I made to you with the assistants. So, then, we don’t need the great doctors who have experience. They gave it, they give it, we thank everyone who has been present all these years in the National Health System. Now let's get into our politics. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have seen what has happened these days, so that the Prime Minister can go to Thessaloniki and say that something has happened with the channels, the 250 million, which will in fact be 80 million, which we will give to some social groups very sensitive. Ladies and gentlemen, in politics there is always a small and large picture. I, at least, require my country, the government that governs it, rule it without color and stand in the big picture. That is to say, I am interested in caring about the great problems of the country, society and citizens by promoting appropriate solutions. I don't care about micropoliticals, the little picture. If a government wants to be effective and useful, it must go beyond itself, speeding up its working rates, without being consumed on secondary aspects of its policy. This SYRIZA - ANEL government seems unable to make this elementary distinction between the big and small image. The reason is simple. The inappropriate relationship with authority. Governance does not see it as a challenge to do good for the place, to promote major social, political and economic goals that it had and told them when it was in the opposition, but sees it as an opportunity to enjoy the privileges and powers of power. This explains why the first time a left-wing government, which plunged the moral advantage, now that it is at the wheel of Greece, is following policies that are far from the declared positions that we were told on the channels before taking power. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I didn't have time to say anything. Ladies and gentlemen, no serious man can charge you the crisis and the bankruptcy of Greece. No one's charging you. You've come to power with an orchestra of promises. You stay in her because you like her. Your statements, your election commitments proved to be fruitfruits. Instead of bringing the hope you promised us, you brought us grief, frustration and anger. Those of you who have been enthusiastic in Marxism - because you have been enthusiastic in Marxism - remember the great verb. The economy is the basis. This is where policies are being assessed, that is where governments are judged. That's where the present and the future are playing. Minister, I want to tell you that the bill you brought is in the positive direction. You have made huge efforts to go much further. We can also see the protocol proposed by Mr Behrakis. These people who are interested in the anti-smoking match, the Behraki Foundation is one of them. Many institutions have put forward positive proposals to discuss this next time. We'll be present. I personally vote for this bill. I tell you that here we are open to discuss the major health problems of the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of the River Mr Amyras has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u212	Won't he speak a second congressman?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u213	Mr Amyras asked that he lead the second Member because he has to take part in a committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for the floor a little earlier than my turn, because I am going to the Committee on Production and Trade on the second floor in room 223. So that's where I came from, I met counted nine smokers. The four of them are MPs. The five are administrative officials and possibly police officers. If you come and smell my jacket, it'll stink of cigarettes. Here now, if we open this door, Minister, we will have a view of two gentlemen who smoke outside the plenary session. The House voted for the anti-smoking law and is unable to implement it itself. Then let the citizen get a healthy message in his attempt, if he is a smoker, to expel this bad habit for himself and for his health and for them around him. But what about the rest of the non-smokers, seeing your reaction earlier, Mr. Minister of Health, Mr. Xanthi, when reference was made to unfortunate - I will say - the incident of Deputy Minister Paulakis, who lit cigarettes in a closed room of the Ministry of Health? What will the citizen do in this case? Shouldn't he follow that anti-smoking law too? Does it then take the symbolism that 'I don't have to cut back on proof, do I not have to be consistent with my obligations towards the state', since nothing is being observed? Members of Parliament are smoking and voting in Parliament. The ministers of health smoke in exuberant, magic and fine. Not only do you not revolt and say - as I say - that it was an unfortunate incident and end up there, but you're trying to give him a moral excuse - I don't know what. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. If we want the anti-smoking law to be implemented, start with your own ministerial office. So it doesn't apply. I remind you that the first time shops, restaurants and bars withdrew the ashtrays and gave glasses. But now, ladies and gentlemen, the glasses have been removed and the ashtrays have been taken back and they are great, heavy, to enjoy the smoker. We therefore have a lack of legislation, we have a lack of strategy from the Ministry of Health on this issue. We're back where we started. As far as tobacco is concerned, Greece has a very large tradition in tobacco production. In Kavala, Xanthi, Thrace in general and also in Larissa, they have a production that could in various ways be strengthened, because it is essentially export. I was told by a quite old and well-timed New Democracy MP that in Kavala and Xanthi they were faced with this problem. Since tobacco was famous, various companies from Europe took the seal of tobacco from Xanthi and Kavala and placed it on their own products. Kavala and Xanthi had arrived to have such tobacco production as Greece did not have together in the last thirty years. This shows, however, the qualitative advantage of tobacco production within the Greek area. I would like to repeat, because perhaps we did not have a good impression - Mr Barriots, our rapporteur, said so - that our very good colleague, a very good fellow MEP, in Thessaloniki, Katerina Markos, traveled by boat to Imbros and Constantinople. On the deck of the ship no one dared to light cigarettes, because in Turkey the ban on smoking is universal. In the summer I think we all entered a ship and went to some island. What was the most common move? At sea, the butt! If we had so many fish butts, we'd be the richest seafood habitat in the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u215	We've got butts!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u216	We've got gums, yeah! But I'm talking about the other butts. So that shows that we're probably battling the wrong way. Since we are talking about the wrong arteries and about butts, I am glad you are laughing, because this shows that, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you have not understood the meaning and dynamism of symbolism. When you see the Minister responsible for the protection of public health smoking and then immediately thereafter counter-attacking those who ask him to erase the cigarette and hide it from public sight, then we have a problem. The fact that we are milking the wrong way seems to be the following. There came ERVIA for the SOS Children's Village on Playari 92,000 euros. The "Smile of the Child" came ENVY 60,000 euros. At the "Greek Children's Village" in Filiro, 12,500 euros came, as the payroll of the people who work in this children's village for two months. "Melissa", hosting abused girls, raped, beaten and abandoned, will have to pay ENVY 20,000 euros. I say, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, didn't you say that HISBIA is a law that is not corrected, but is abolished? Can you not now either replace the extreme injustices of this law with another system, even for the social relief of nuclei like those I mentioned to you? Where was your fighter, where did your efficiency go? Why don't you abolish HISBIA for these institutions? What's keeping you? Silence. Can I now say about supplementary pensions? Two hundred and forty thousand pensioners are almost there - beating wood - to have an ATM infarction when they saw their pensions crumbled and I fear that some of them will turn it into smoking, which will also be a smuggler to be cheap. Can we talk about the unemployed in private channels? The black in the ERT didn't hurt a part of society alone, but it hurt the whole society. The black one in private channels? None of SYRIZA and the ANELs will shed a single tear, but not a single tear? They're two thousand families. It is also the achievement of your Government that they will be enrolled in the unemployment fund with a clear future. It is not so obvious, however, for the future of the newspaper "SUGI". So we learned that in 2013 he had bank advertising revenues of 118,000 euros, in 2014 he had 272,000 euros, in 2015 he had 500,000 euros, that is, half a million euros from bank advertising. For 2016, things are even better, according to the figures of the first quarter. A thousand three hundred cards, a thousand three hundred readers and the shareholders of "AGEI" are more than the readers, as the CEO of the SYRIZA party paper said yesterday. I ask you, Mr. SYRIZA's good colleagues: do you not burn yourself to know, which natural person is behind the offshore stock that owns 2.7% of the shares in "AGE"? Aren't you burning? I'd be burning up. If the Potami was going out of a newspaper and there was Cypriot offshore in it and went out and said the newspaper's representative "I don't tell you who is behind offshore to keep it from happening", then I would have taken another kind of action and made the person who knows how to say it. Who's hiding? Is Koskotas hiding? I don't think so. So this case picks up a cigarette? Oh, no. The case raises investments. As Anna Korakakis, the golden Olympiacos, said at the committee's formal meeting on the other Olympians, health investments and investment in sport, we need a multitude of support for Greek society back. As far as the bill is concerned, Minister, Mr Bargiotas told you the points on which we have some objections. In Article 17 we have an objection and we will not vote on it. You have not been able to reach agreement with the Ministry of Finance on the complete transposition of this directive, which came in two instalments. I would remind you that I had tabled a question to you on 24 February 2016, and I was asking how you would deal with the unacceptableness, in our view, of the government's delay in fighting tobacco. So you answered me with a document, which you said you set up an Interministerial Committee, but in which the officials of the Ministry of Finance did not participate. I came back and asked you why and you said they disagreed with the content. I say, therefore, that when a directive, which is cut into two parts, is incorporated by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health, despite the fact that it is very much linked, both ministries admit that there is a cold on this subject, I must tell you that I have some questions about whether you will manage to apply it in practice as we all would like, so that this smoke hurricane will slowly disappear, which affects all of us, whether smokers are active or the other passive smokers. The cigarette hurts. Those who listen to us, let's try to cut it off. They will see their skin cleansing, women will be more easily weakened, everyone will see their lungs respond better to exercise, up and down the stairs and their hearts will become stronger, in order to receive positive messages more easily, to be perceived and not behind a smoke cloud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Igoumenides from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me first comment before entering into the matter we are discussing. I think that a bad habit, a poorer and more dangerous one than smoking, as it tends to develop, is the inappropriate risk of anti-population, an attempt to present the image of the government and the government majority as an image of dissolution, an attempt to present various measures, as naughty movements of people, to keep them in power in every way. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the current government, despite the unfavourable financial environment it has inherited, gives a historic battle within and outside the House to face the humanitarian crisis to keep society and the country standing. In this effort to mark the Left and the current government, which is the left, it is the unity, if you like, of the timing of parliamentary activity with the extra-parliamentary struggle. Indicator for us, where the government goes, is the vindication of the struggles of the fighting society. Right to give power and decisive impetus to the government, to defend the interests of the country, to justify the struggles in which struggles, in fact, workers have as yet another weapon, the government and its attitude. I started by saying these, because I think some things can't stay in business. As far as today's draft law is concerned, the European directive, which regulates the tobacco products until now, is being incorporated into national law and also lays down rules here. For example, it defines the maximum levels of emissions of nicotine, tar and carbon monoxide, it also sometimes defines with strong meticulousness - indeed - critical details and aspects relating to health warnings, but also the specifications that electronic cigarettes and replacement containers must meet. A large part and a large item that dealt with our debate is the cessation of smoking. A number of remarks have been made, which obviously do not seem to be the opposite, but which only stand on the police side of the case. It is prohibited that smoking, spaces be defined, ashtrays do not exist, signs called it, etc. I have in mind, but unfortunately I cannot show you the image of the University Hospital's cardinal clinic, where I was working, where on the balcony of the cardinal clinic - I do not know if anyone is listening to me right now and if they are still in the same situation - in the pots the soil did not appear. I'm talking about the balcony that separated the escorts who came to see their heart relatives from the hearts with a simple jam. In the pots it didn't look dirt, it was just cigarette butts. And where? In a place where there was not only a ban on cigarettes but also a very strong police force by the director of the clinic, our professor, Mr. Varda, who was a real winner on this subject, but also by the medical and nursing staff of the clinic and obviously also by some of the people who were shouting because he bothered the cigarette. In this sense - and here I would like to go a little further into the matter and not to mention the other issues I intended to raise - I do not think that this is just an issue of administrative bans or police measures for the implementation of the law, as has been said in previous speeches. Look, I don't know how many of you remember or see yet - I don't know if they still exist - the signs in the churches, at least, "do not spit hamai", which was a message, in a Greece that came out of the war. In a Greece where tuberculosis was harvesting, it was perfectly normal after a cough paraxism, the other to spit next to where he was walking or spitting next to where he sat. Evidently beyond the attempt to erupt disease from Greek society, we also needed an entire effort, to demonstrate to the world that it is not the right behavior to spit where you sit or where you walk, to the man who sits next to you, etc. Let's show that this was an anti-social behavior. In my opinion, we have laws, we can apply or have measures to implement them. I think there should be an entire campaign to show that smoking is an anti-social thing. In other words, he should not be afraid of being offended because he is in a non-smoker place, not being afraid of smoking. If you want, because I have heard from some Members that smoking is harming, all doctors say so, no one smokes because he has decided to die. No one smokes because he wants to get lung cancer. It must therefore not be afraid of the other smoker but must be ashamed of smoking. That's what we have to do. I agree with all the proposals made by the institutions, first of all, with the scientific bodies themselves, and I, too, as a cardiologist, could not disagree with the positions of the Hellenic Cardiological Society. I think it was right that the comments made by operators and by companies, small and medium-sized enterprises and tobacco industries were made. I think it is right to deal with the issues and with the comments made by the Minister, they are dealt with as a whole. The issue of bureaucracy is being tackled. I imagine that, with the amendment adopted by the Minister, we will not actually be in the process of going beyond the four-month period for the licensing of certain tobacco products. I think the bill has a social and political character. Essentially to the question. Some monopolistic interests - and are there such - or public health? Our position is clear. The defense before all public health and health. This is our guide, this is the approach taken by our government and beyond this bill, both primary health care and the overall measures of support for the public health sector, is also a serious indicator of where the current government is going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Christos Kelles from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, Minister, allow me to comment on a number of points concerning the draft law which the Government introduces to Parliament and on the incorporation of the Community directive on tobacco products. The New Democracy supports the bill, which is moving in the right direction, but in some cases perhaps over-zealous, it can produce opposite results from the ones being pursued. I am referring specifically to Rule 17, Minister. It concerns the licensing procedure for new tobacco products. While the directive refers to compulsory notification, in contrast to voluntary licensing, the draft law changes it to the strictest extent with the licensing process. Twenty-one Member States of the European Union have not changed the directive and another six provide for formal approval beyond notification. Why do we have to be stricter than them, Minister? Why are we lifting up walls and making it difficult to access new products, especially at this difficult time when the turnover on the market is down? On the one hand, you are bringing laws to simplify the procedure for setting up and licensed undertakings and on the other hand, you are having difficulty in authorising the licensing of products. Minister, with the legislative improvement, which is in the right direction, you have taken a good step. Finish it. Article 24. It's about the electronic cigarette, the so-called atom. While you are right to prohibit the commercial communication of steam in Article 18, you are then exaggerating and prohibiting its use in public enclosures, which is not even the case in Europe's most advanced health countries. I do not think that the electronic cigarette should be assimilated to normal. I have been following with particular interest - and because of a profession - the dispute that has occurred in the scientific community, but I do not think this is the same at all. There is no way we can view electronic cigarette as a gateway to someone in the cigarette area. The opposite is true. It is something that is described by both relevant experience and life itself. Besides, as you are, Minister, doctor, if we consider that methadone is a drug entry, heroin, not a heroin rehab. So we cannot close our eyes and accept that everything is the same, including electronic and regular cigarette bans, and how much more so when the electronic cigarette is one of the means one can use to stop smoking. But, ladies and gentlemen, are we talking about atmospherics, when we have a smoking law since 2008, n.3730, and if we exclude some initial attempts, has it never been implemented? It is incomprehensible that the official state cannot apply the laws it is voting on. So it also gives citizens the right to think that the laws exist just to exist. Furthermore, we need to send a clear message that the risk of cigarettes for public health is such that no one should care whether they are a smoker or not. I think it is disgraceful for our country, a country that wants to be characterised as a European, to welcome, by its omissions, the non-compliance of citizens with what applies to cigarettes. It is imperative that the government show determination and show by acts that the laws are passed to implement. But you, Mr Minister, are giving the bad example and not just the anti-smoking. With effect from 27/2, you voted for Mr von Wogau's report. 4369/2016 - I do not know if you know him - which defines the new method of selecting heads of government's organic units. Do you know him?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u221	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u222	You know him. It states, therefore, that the law expressly states: ‘First, the tasks of heads of state are still to be performed when the current heads of State are published until the establishment of the crisis departments and, second, the directors can only place heads in office where there are vacant posts’. The new governors, which you have appointed in hospitals, Minister, have changed heads? They have moved to a pogroms of caratomas and movements of premiers in many large hospitals in the country. I would mention as an example the Hospital of "Evangelism", "Generalities", "Salvation", "Lacto" and the Hospital in Patras, where party friends were placed, as I state in the relevant question I tabled yesterday. So if you know that, will you punish the commanders who are illegal? Will you restore order? Another example, to avoid always. Your Deputy Minister, your colleague, Mr. Paulakis, in a document of the past few days, demands EOPYY - you will know that - to transfer his money available - he says - to cooperative banks in breach of the relevant legislation. The institutional framework for the delegation of funds is clear and rigorous and provides for a decision following an international public tendering procedure. And of course, for no reason will it depend on the personal wishes of the minister and political leader concerned. On the other hand, this certainly shows another perception, a total perception of authority and its management and reminiscent of other times. Instead of dealing with the management of cash resources, do you not have to deal with the huge and actual problems of the EEAS? Do you know that we're on September and that the contracted providers with EEAS, doctors, physico-therapists, clinical, diagnostic laboratories, rehabilitation centres have only been paid January and February? You know that. And not just that, but you're asking them to pay and clawback. Where to pay for the clawback, Minister? You drive conscientious and conscientious professionals in a mathematical manner in prison. Unless otherwise you have in the back of your mind and you don't pay them. I'm hanging up with the N.R.R.D. What about the NRP, Minister? The new Republic had planned the development strategy for the period 2014-2020. The former leadership of the Ministry of Health, in which you participated, on the pretext of redesigning national priorities, frozen the process until spring 2016. In April 2016, along with the Secretary General of your Ministry, Mr. Is Mr. Is Mr. Is this Mr. Is the Ice Secretary to the Ministry? Is it still there?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u223	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u224	Yes, Mr. Giannulatos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u225	They didn't tell you well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u226	Is it still there? Because there's more going on in the press. In any case, you have transferred a large proportion of the funds to mental health and the NGOs, which you also have weaknesses. To date no call of interest has been made. Is he out? Nothing's come out. Can you tell us who is responsible for the implementation and implementation of the Ministry's NRW 2014-2020? What proposals have you submitted if you have submitted? Because I'm very afraid you haven't submitted any. I look forward to your answer with great interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Ioannis Ragos, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let me begin by saying that we have seen a great disaster in the Messinia region and in areas of Laconia a few days ago. That's too bad. We lost people, unfortunately. We give our condolences to the families of the victims as Golden Dawn. But we have a few things to report. We are, unfortunately, learning about them, and then we are, since we have to mourn victims first. We saw that in the construction of the Corinth-Kalamata road, in the Messinia area for too long they have been mistreated and the road is a mess. There has been a retreat of the soil and all of this has resulted in us seeing what we have seen and mourning victims. Also, the city of Kalamata was filled with bazaars, soils and various materials, which had made them completely roughly and without being interested in the safety of citizens. But all this, they have a name behind it. The name shall be the construction company ‘MOREA’. And who's behind it? The Bobolas. There are specific responsibilities here by particular people. So will the state, the ministry and the government look into ensuring that responsibilities are met? Because it is not possible for people to be lost in our homeland and no one to pay the price. A few days ago, about a month ago, we witnessed an accident that occurred in Aegina, for which, as things go, nobody will ever know what happened, who was the ones who were upstairs, while it would be very easy to find out. A lot sounds like it. We don't know what's true and what's a lie. However, what easier than a lifting of telephone secrets, as could easily be done, and see who have spoken to who and who were on the ship that killed innocent people? Not only did they kill them, they didn't even try to save them. So, now with the Bobola's "MORES" company, who takes the money - so many years it has taken hundreds of millions from the Greek state - and on the basis of the hardships that have been done, it has flooded - I repeat - the city of Kalamata and we were dead. So let us look at both justice and the Greek state bringing these people to apologise and see if they are to blame or are not to blame for what has been done. Unless in Greece - because that is law too - there is no one responsible for what is wrong. You're all in the front. We have the Minister here right now, which is one of the ministers who are not answering our questions. King’s King, decides that the questions of Golden Dawn MPs need not be answered. Who gave him this right and how can this man judge on whom he will answer and who will not answer? Because, according to his data, the Golden Dawn - says - is a criminal organization, which is being tried. They are the same who all kinds of terrorists - from 17 November - until recently 'Firearms Consortium' or anything - claim that they have not finished some things or whatever they have done were young, young, and they have not known and we have to justify them. While for the Members of the Golden Dawn, who are persecuted without any evidence, he considers that he cannot answer them and should not answer them, because he wants to. But the Department isn't yours. Today it's you, tomorrow it'll be someone else. The questions we ask are not about the Golden Dawn voters, they are about all the Greek voters for whom we are in this way interested and we ask you to answer some issues. So you have no right to answer us. And in a country where there would be elementary justice, you wouldn't dare do that. But we live here in a state that anyone who wants to do anything. So you call on the Golden Dawn as a criminal organisation, the Minister does not answer us, but according to evidence we have seen a few days ago, which all the media have disappeared and no one has said, because the Golden Dawn would be vindicated and vindicated to those involved, we have had some documents from George Soros, from the well-known George Soros, the American Zionist, who runs the test on many issues in our homeland, who, according to information, gives money to various websites of paramilitary, terrorists, who say and do a thousand to the detriment of the Greek people, target innocent citizens, who are pleasing for the murder of innocent citizens. So this is where George Soros, who according to official documents made public, gave money to various NGOs, of which your state and the previous governments of course have and care for them. Here I will read for a, say, the Greek Union for Human Rights, which has taken from Soros for a year of around 76,800 euros. That's all there's on the internet for whoever wants it. He can see them if it's true or lying. So this company is controlled by some Helen Taku. Mrs Eleni Taku is working with another thirty-three non-governmental organisations. And these groups are "APPSIS", the Refugee and Immigrant Rights and the "PRAXIS", which we met from the brochures with the Turkish smugglers sharing with the people who moved here. They're the ones who dare to talk about the Golden Dawn. According to data, they take money from George Soros and yet no one has moved either from Greek justice or of course from the Greek state to see what is happening in this case. We also saw George Soros organise through the Institute of Open Society for Europe against a visit and a gathering made by the Golden Dawn last year about a year ago on the multipathous island of Lesbos for the problems with illegal immigrants. We've been talking about it ever since. We talked about it a lot earlier, of course. And we went to the island to see the people and talk. At times we have asked questions within the Greek Parliament about how anti-concentrations are allowed and especially in a legitimate political party, in the third political party, which, when it goes to make a gathering somewhere, accepts concentrations. But there's the answers. The answers are here. The counter-concentrations are organized by George Soros and the para-state punks who are here in Greece together, the anti-powered together with the ruler Soros, along with the government. All of them against. Who? Golden Dawn. Why? Because we oppose the new order of things, we also oppose at a time of malnutrition and globalisation, we continue to shout about homes, about ideologies, about religions. That's something you mind very much. So we see the counter-concentration with the Antiracist Observatory of the University of the Aegean, which took money, as is said here, from George Soros to give us a counter-concentration last year on October 17th in Mytilini. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Lagos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We also see George Soros himself on the occasion of the persecutions suffered by all the MPs and the Chief of the Golden Dawn. In this report is also the statement made by the then Minister of Justice, Mr Rupakiotis, who said that American-Sionist organisations are coming to Greece - they were before the persecution of the Golden Dawn - and put pressure on the Golden Dawn in order to imprison its officials and its Chief and stop its action. These are here and, of course, in the Greek Parliament, they don't sound chic and, of course, the big-fashioned ones you want to chase, they didn't sound chic, even to them. Why? Because you are not their enemies, neither are you enemies of the great interests nor the great rulers. You are enemies of our country. You are enemies to anything called national right now in Greece. So they refer to what George Soros says: 'Looking at the latest developments in Greece - imprisonment of the Golden Dawn leadership - it would not be too much to say that the European Union is not equipped to defend liberal democracy. The activation of the idea of 'fighting democracy' is far from simple. It requires clear lines on how, when and who should decide whether political players should be banned." That's what George Soros says here in the documents he probably hasn't read and, of course, you and the previous Samaras government with Dendas and Babis Athanasios did what George Soros said to them, as you of course do right now, even though you have ideological differences with New Democracy, because you are great enemies. Of course, the memorials are voting together. The others are different. So George Soros continues to say: "In the 2014 European elections, unfortunately, Golden Dawn went well and took large percentages. To what is due...", he says, "...this fact?" And he explains below: “It failed the double block, which constituted ANEL and LAOS. The economic situation has not improved, but has, on the contrary, deteriorated." These are the quietest points. Listen to the following: "In spite of the efforts of the New Democracy and SYRIZA to cover up the issue, the Baltaku video revealed to the world that the Golden Dawn exists political persecutions". Minister, this is where you don't answer us because we're a criminal organization. In addition, he continues to say: 'The fact that the anarchists were not so active at that time'. They weren't so active at the time. The parastate wasn't so active. He had killed only two innocent Greek Chrysayites, Giorgos Fountoulis and Manolis Kapelonis and he had severely injured Alexander the Elder only because they were Greek nationalists and Greek Chrysayites. So these and many more are written in George Soros documents. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, a Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Lagos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These must be heard, and since as Golden Dawn we have no chance of talking about them elsewhere, we can see them again from the Stepping of the House and again well that you leave us and tell them, because until now you have been micing us, you have done other things. We'll see about that, too. So we come to discuss and say whether we are a criminal organization, when we read what we read here, when there is the Baltaku video beyond the sound, when a radio station owner and newspaper "TAPOLICA" appeared here yesterday, in the House, and said that the then Prime Minister of Greece, Samaras, called him and threatened to download the audio there, which said "we must put the Members of the Golden Dawn in prison and we must end them" to the tall panthenic, Doyako. We all know that. When all this is silenced, do you want to talk to us about democracy and rights to us, who have suffered all this about our ideology, without doing anything at all? So that's what's bothering you. We are also forgetting that a month and a half ago at the Golden Dawn tribunal came an eyewitness, a witness in front of him, unfortunately, the murder of the Bridge and said the next day had gone, the then Minister of Public Order, the Dendias, and asked him for the tapes from the cameras he had. And the tapes from these cameras are gone, they don't exist! You will all speak to us about justice, democracy and objectivity. That's the stuff. Whenever we're talking to you, unfortunately, you're gonna throw your head down, because you have nothing to tell us, because everything we say is here with evidence and documentary evidence. Finally, I would also like to make a reference to something, which was done five to six days ago and, of course, that was also buried. We read it in the newspaper "FOD" and according to specific information and with a question asked, there is a step thirteen, which was in Greece. It still works for the company 'COMVERSE TECHNOLOGY', which is a subsidiary of the company 'EFRAT'. Inside them there were proven three who were agents. The names of these agents, who were expelled from Greece as soon as their names were known, are as follows: The names and particulars were given. Extreme tomb silence! These people disappeared, they're back home. Also, these are involved in many instances of violent behaviour against MPs and members of the Golden Dawn, in car arson, in houses of MPs and officials of the Golden Dawn, events that no one ever learns.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u229	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u230	I shall conclude, Mr President, by a moment. Because all of you here, the clique, want to silence them, because you know that we are clear and you know that at any time and at any time we can be ideologically confronted with all of you and see who is clean and who serves interests. So we have told you these few things now. I repeat that anyone who has the slightest doubt that it might not be the case for the evidence to be invaded to read the Soros documents - no one showed particular interest - which they say you are all partners against the Golden Dawn. We'll keep going, we'll be here. And I want to say one last thing for ten seconds: Until six, seven months ago, we were shown all the canal scenes of Greek solidarity, who were going to offer a dish of food to the various illegal immigrants who have come. They went to Mytilini, Chios, the islands, Idomeni. In the last five months, these footage has disappeared, because - you know - the Greeks have not withstanded the illegal immigrants who have come, who are robbing them, entering their property, and reacting. The Greeks' reaction, you don't want to show it! But we will be here, and we will constantly highlight these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u231	Mr President, I would like to make a comment, and I would like you and the other Members to take it seriously. In most cases derogations are made from the subject under discussion in the speeches. But there is one issue. If the entire 15-minute speech of a colleague is not mentioned at all in the draft legislation under discussion, there is one issue. I'm telling you with all due respect. I didn't interrupt you. The Rules of Procedure under Rule 66 allow me to interrupt. I didn't. But there must be fundamental respect for this subject. You didn't make the slightest mention! I beg your pardon very much, but I say this in a spirit of parliamentary consultation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u232	You will allow me to reply 20 seconds, Mr President. What you are saying - and you are right on your part - if we were given the slightest opportunity and opportunity to express our views from the media, of which we are excluded, from public television, even though...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u233	All right, Mr. Comrade, now, what's the matter under discussion about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u234	We have no further step, Mr President, and do not forget that you are now in the position of the President, having taken - not you personally - the position of the third parliamentary force in ways of truly gangsters - and I am not talking about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u235	Mr. Colleague, the House is voting, deciding, it's not a channel. The House is discussing matters. We can discuss what you are saying at another hour and for other reasons. The House today discusses the bill on this issue and I made an observation, which I hope you will understand. Mr Dimitrios Kremastinos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u236	Mr President, because you referred to the Members' speeches on the subject, I shall, of course, speak on the subject. Real passive smoking has, as you know, been banned following a number of documented studies that have shown that they are equally harmful - if not worse - than actual smoking, non-associated. For what? Because he who passively smokes is the same who smokes and energetically, and he inhales the smoke he smokes himself. And not only that, but, of course, he's hurting his neighbor. So passive smoking is very bad, like, of course, and active. Three are the ways to stop the smoker: One is to use varenicline, the second is to use nicotine stickers, to wean nicotine and the third is to use the electronic cigarette. I heard Mrs Kerameros' agony in her speech saying she was looking to find room in the House to see what she would do, because she was pregnant and could not smoke passively - what is in this House today. And when Andreas Psycharis, when he was a Member, asked the President at the time - then he was the President of Parliament, Mr Meimarakis - to implement the law that the House voted on in the House itself, I myself and eighty Members myself. Outside's out. If you go to "Attiki", Minister, it has a large poster saying "Greece stopped smoking on 1 July 2009". Mr. Avramopoulos did it then. All that happened is that the poster from the sun has been erased, but if you move on until you go to the intensive unit, you'll see hundreds of stiffs and no one's interested in implementing the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u237	Why, will it be implemented now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u238	So it is not - and you told the Minister this morning - reassurance is mobilization. In other words, officials from the Ministry of Health must go out and look at the implementation of this law. And not just to do the implementation, but also to report the results. Another colleague said that in Turkey and in the sea they do not fly steak. All right, Turkey has another regime. We are a democratic country. It's not a question. But not to reach the exact opposite result, because now we are going to the exact opposite result in relation to what we are discussing about others. So things are very serious. The electronic cigarette, as I said, is a way to stop smoking. It's not right to compare to smoking. That's wrong. In other words, "what is preferable to smoke electronic or regular cigarettes?" That's not the question. The point is that electronic cigarette is a means to stop smoking, "the way to stop smoking" said by the Anglo-Saxons. This is the way to stop smoking and you must not compare it to smoking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u239	What conferences has this heard?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u240	Don't interrupt me. I'd be happy to have this conversation as long as you want...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u241	What scientific conferences has this heard?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u242	Not scientific, scientist! "The way to stop smoking", the way to stop smoking is specific. If you don't want him, you'll follow the other two. But what's the mistake? The mistake is to start the young man, who's virgin of smoking, smoking electronic cigarette. Why is it wrong? Because he's going to slow down to actual smoking, because he's making contact with nicotine. What's the philosophy of electronic cigarette? It reduces the dose of nicotine, that is, it makes a kind of usaning, a kind of weaning weaning from nicotine. This actually does, because it reduces the dose until it disappears. Its effectiveness is somewhat substantiated. What is not documented is its harmfulness. This is not documented. But the FDA comes in and says that in America - the laws are strict - it does not forbid it until multicenter studies are made. American legislation does not prohibit it, even though the interests are not American. It's European too. You must know that large companies, which I do not now want to mention the names at the moment, because the consumption of cigarettes has fallen, make not electronic cigarettes, but a similar one that is not vaporing action, as they say it, are not steamed, but it is a cigarette that burns without having the carcinogens in it, such as tar, etc. That's where it's going. I personally have no objections to this and to be banned and anywhere forbidden. But what I care about is why we should run first. Let's wait. And then forbid it not only passive but also active. However, wicked is this: he is somehow a smoker and knows that when he goes to the bar where he is banned and one smoking and the other, why continue the treatment, I repeat, of stopping smoking? You'll tell me to interrupt with varenicline. That's right. Discontinuing with nicotine weaning. Aren't there any side effects with varenicline and nicotine? Read the tips. They have serious side effects both. Everything's got side effects. What's the difference? The difference is that multicentre studies must be carried out and results must be obtained. Once it becomes the first, the second, the most - multicentre study, which says anything, must be respected by everyone. This is my personal position and position, if you like, many and the FDA position. Why am I saying all this? Because there is the underlying concept that anyone who speaks speaks speaks of someone else's interests. I personally - you know - have no interest in any company. I have never received a scientific grant from these companies, and I am therefore free to speak. Everyone knows it, and I speak really consciously. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. What would I suggest? The simple one. Right now, as there are for everything I mentioned about electronic cigarette side effects, so there are for mobile phones too. What do they all say? We wait for multicentre studies to ban mobile phones. But there is no big multicentre study for the mobile phone, which everyone can read. There are microlets. Why other politics on one and the other? Away from the companies and from them and from them, because everyone has interests. After all, I told you that the tobacco companies - at least the two large ones - are preparing their own cigarettes that will not be the cigarette that is circulating for smoking. My proposal is therefore to ban young people, non-smokers. The young man goes to the bar and they tell him "alcoholics are forbidden, the law says so." It's bad for the bartender sometimes. So it must say to the under eighteen or seventeen "you can't smoke in the bar". That's yes, that's because that's dangerous. Instead of saying the way to stop smoking, young people are the way to start smoking. It's exactly the opposite. I think that we need to focus on this, and that must, in my opinion, be the tactic that the country must take. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Papadopoulos Athanasios has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u244	It is very useful to discuss both the meetings of the Committee on Social Affairs and the Plenary Session. I think that adapting Greek legislation to the European Parliament's directives on tobacco products is a necessary task. However, the most serious issue for the Greek Parliament is the application of the rules that we are establishing, especially when it comes to smoking and the costs, particularly the costs, Mr Lambroulis, a dreadful social cost which also has economic consequences, but it is mainly public health costs. I would like to disagree with my colleague, Mr Yakumato, who, at the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, said that smoking is a disease and we must treat smokers as ill. Nicotine smoking, according to all scientific documentation, is a dangerous addiction to both smokers and to their surroundings, as was rightly pointed out by Mrs Jufi and others about the consequences of forced smoking which are very sad. But what about addictions, the rules and the laws in Greece? It is known that the anti-smoking campaign does not apply to all its specifications. Anti-smoking legislation is hardly respected. So what do we do? We're all talking about this here. We are extending bans for new tobacco products. I listened carefully to the previous complaints about e-smoking. In fact, there should be scientific evidence of the consequences of the dialogue. However, the question which must, above all, concern Parliament's behaviour after the current decisions is what we are doing with the problem of implementing the measures we take, of legislation. Is it subject to the patriotism of the addicts, even when they are students? What exactly are the measures taken by the Ministries of Justice and Citizen Protection? The municipalities, what exactly are they taking? What exactly is the City Police doing? We Members - and I would like to stress this in particular - what attitude are we taking in the Greek Parliament? It is known that we are disciplined with our attitude and that we are becoming a major treatment body for all, especially for young children. And Parliament's behaviour is very important with the messages it sends. And the behavior of the MPs and doctors as a whole, who know all the side effects, is a very important parameter. I therefore think that we should soon monitor the effects of the application of legislation, the application of the rules and do so in every way. We cannot say that we are sick, because the Member cannot claim to be ill and therefore obey his illness. I therefore believe that there must be strict rules on these issues in hospitals and their surroundings, the House and the Ministries. However, I would like to point out that the excesses, in any case, do not benefit. We have heard too much in the Committee on Social Affairs too, about banning regulations that need to be made. I think I should recognise the mistake we made by SYRIZA Members we signed the amendment on the protection of minors from tobacco and alcoholic beverages, which led to the conclusion that we wanted to ban the sale of cigarettes and cigarettes. I think that this conclusion was wrong, and it was quite right to realize that it was not about our intention, in particular, to be banned in the amusement areas, in the bouzosquets, and in the entertainment areas, but that it was extended to other points of sale, such as the whisky shops, in due course, it was corrected and withdrawn after consultation with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Development. I think that continuing to conduct a number of Members who want, while invoking anti-popularism, to make a popular intervention on these issues, is totally wrong. It is still a demonology against the amendment, which is not right. I listened yesterday to Mr Constantinople in a television medium to make a harsh criticism of the alleged behaviour of those Members of Parliament with interests. So, what does the poet want to tell us? What interest is he talking about? With what complication? I think, therefore, that if this unbearable slightness is left, we could be closer to the conclusions that need to come from the implementation of this adjustment. We can tell you that we are taught by our mistakes. We will be more careful especially at this time when we dare to make major changes, especially in health issues. There have been some points about what we are doing so that the gaps that exist in the staffing of hospitals, health centres and CEN units are covered in every way. We have six years of memoranda of prohibitions that have not even allowed us to replace the pensioners who have left. How, then, can we say, Mr Barriotta, that keeping subsidiary doctors is an exaggeration when it is known that gaps especially in prefecture hospitals, in regional hospitals, in the islands, in the difficult areas are explosives? Despite the efforts made to recruit permanently - and there is a great deal of effort being made - we still need the provision of subsidiary doctors. It is very wrong to keep such a behaviour against an intervention which is absolutely necessary. It is for this reason that an amendment has been made which needs to be applied by the Parliament's decision. I would like to close by the fact that very important issues are currently being raised in our country. I believe that the offer of all of us to the major reforms that we need to do will be very useful. It will be very right and serious in the Constitutional Review to agree, if possible, all that the right to free, equal, free access to the National Health System must be established and that is what I want to close. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of the Centroon Association, Mr Aristides Fokas, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from the position that we in Greece do not fall short of the production of laws as well as of their implementation. Therefore, making European Directive 40/2014 a state law is our obligation, but it will only make real sense if it is implemented in practice. Obviously, there is still a ban on smoking in public places, a law which has been in existence for many years, but which is only applied in a few cases, and any application in practice concerns the protection of the health of smokers or non-smokers, but is made for purely fraudulent reasons. Of course, weakness and reluctance to implement the law in Greece is not a current phenomenon. Since 2008, with the resolution of the anti-smoking law, there have been announcements by the then Minister for Health on the design and implementation of an integrated action plan to prevent and combat smoking. The results, obviously, fierce. In October 2013, during a smoking survey in Greece, the then Minister for Health, Mr.Adonis Georgiadis, left open the possibility that the checks on compliance with the anti-smoking law could be carried out by police officers and not by municipal police officers. In March 2014, the Prosecutor of the Ice Arrow, Mrs. Euterpi Koutzamani, intervened and requested the application of the legislation prohibiting smoking in public areas. By a document sent back to the prosecutors throughout the country, he stressed that smoking is completely banned in all public and private places used to provide work and in all sanitary shops. The intervention of justice was also requested by the then State Secretary of State Zetta Makre, who even declared determined to implement the law prohibiting smoking. So let's stop hiding behind our finger. It turns out, in fact, that penalising provisions do not combat the bad mindset of many of our compatriots, and on the part of many shopkeepers - and I cannot blame them for this - in times of deep recession they know that the application of the law will mean further shrinking of their clientele, because we easily talk about it here in Parliament, but come to a café that pays 24% VAT and all the raisins that you have invented and ask the owner himself to take out of the shop the client who has this bad habit. I imagine you understand the answer we'll get. I see the coffee of the country being filled with the poster of the Minister, Mr. Polakis, smoking inside the Ministry! Let's not fool ourselves, we don't change the bad habits and attitudes we've had for years. In any event, any further tightening of the regulatory framework means practically nothing if not all the relevant departments are tuned in the direction of its implementation. Let us at least have the political courage to admit that we are legislating today, so that we can be formally in line with the European Union, and why we must incorporate the Community directive. Now, as far as the bill is concerned, there is clearly a need for a class to enter advertising and the promotion and sale of all tobacco products placed on the Greek market. We are obliged to take all those measures that will help to shield public health and create a strong grid of protection, particularly for responsible smokers. We must take into account what has been heard in the Committee on Social Affairs at the hearing of the institutions, that passive smoking is a potentially human rights violation. After all, our country has been a pioneer in this area since 2013 with the suggestion put forward to recognise the protection against passive smoking as a human right throughout Europe. We shall therefore be fully in agreement with the explanatory statement on passive smoking, with the position that no substance is innocent. We certainly agree with Articles 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 and consider the introduction of a specific regulatory framework which must be in place for the full information of the smoker about the ingredients of all tobacco products, the continued evaluation and addiction of these products, but also the creation of an effective net of protection for citizens - especially young children - by misleading advertising which makes the impression that smoking does not harm health. As regards Articles 8 and 14, it is important to extend the labelling of health warnings to all packs of tobacco products. I hope and hope that the images will prevent young children from being dependent on smoking in particular. We are also in agreement with Articles 15 and 16 on cross-border tobacco sales, as we also need to close the internet courier. I am thinking of the provisions of Article 17, and in particular of the insurance restrictions on the marketing of so-called ‘new tobacco products’, those which do not require burning. The law also incorporates Article 19 of the Community directive which no other country has adopted in the European Union so far, applying the very strict provisions on the licensing of new tobacco products. This is because, beyond the notification procedure provided for and allows the authorities to check the safety and quality of products six months before they are released, Article 17 requires additional and authorisations by a special committee, but also a ministerial decision, before they enter the market. Obviously, it is a form of oxymomile that the tobacco industries should be required this dazzling process and the traditional Greek bureaucracy for the licensing of these products, even when traditional cigarettes will be released without following this process. I repeat, I'm not against the controls. On the contrary! There has been a lot of discussion in the committee about electronic cigarettes, but it has also been particularly concerned about the meeting, where all the stakeholders have heard about the issue of its risk. Obviously, there are two very different approaches. Steamists say electronic cigarette is the most effective for nicotine rehab. In fact, they have asked to overthrow Articles 18 and 24 of the draft law concerning them and provide for the ban on the use of electronic cigarettes in closed public spaces. On the other hand, the European directive mentions the simulation of the smoking behaviour with electronic cigarettes and the Minister in his interview, but also his interventions, talking about a portal for nicotine addiction, reporting on the risk of electronic cigarettes. We have heard the arguments of both sides, so that we can finally decide whether or not the electronic cigarette, as the Ministry says, opens the way to addiction to nicotine or whether, on the contrary, it can contribute to the anti-smoking effort, for which we are all interested and we are all trying. We have also listened carefully to the speech by Mr Demetrios Kremastinos, who himself, despite his deep scientific training, stressed that we should, as he said, consider how the ban on electronic cigarettes should be introduced. Obviously we cannot adopt its logic less harmful or certainly not give the electronic cigarette a bonus by excluding it from the rest. However, I believe that many colleagues in this House who are not doctors have not yet been convinced. In conclusion, I wholeheartedly hope that the new law will be implemented and that he will not be left with a letter. It is now up to the government to implement what we are voting on today. I want to be optimistic. Let us hope to make a new start today in our common fight to combat smoking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides has the floor for seven minutes from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr President. It has been heard here today by too many colleagues that a bill will not be implemented that will soon be law, as the previous law of 2009 has not been implemented. Indeed, this is a hard reality and we must stand up to this reality, because we are unfortunately continuing to move on a path, which, if you like, must be changed, as other colleagues have stressed, in order to achieve the desired result. For example, it has been mentioned that in our neighbouring country, Turkey, this is forbidden in public space. It is not allowed to happen and it is not happening. However, because freedoms are limited, the law can be applied there. But even if we proceed to our neighbours who take their first steps in the European Union, such as our country next door, Bulgaria, we will see - and I would like to inform you that about a year and a half ago the relevant law was passed - that the relevant legislation is being implemented and that no one can understand smoking in an area of health interest, public or private. So, it's not the clay, we're the wrong ones. It has of course also been pointed out that this is still happening here in Parliament. I was remarked by my fourth son, the little boy, and he said, "But you too smoke in the restaurant and not just down in the conservatory." What can I say to him? Because it was also mentioned about the use of alcohol by minors and whether this is controlled or not, to say that I had asked a question a long time ago and I got an answer that seventeen infringements exist throughout Greece, I think four in Athens and thirteen in the whole region. That, unfortunately, is the reality. You will allow me, of course, to come to a specific issue - because I have a relevant collective decision from my prefecture - which, Minister, has to do with Article 4, concerning the measurement of imported cigarettes or manufactured cigarettes as regards the substances of nicotine and carbon monoxide contained in these cigarettes. It must be known, but also for those who do not know it, it must be noted that the analyses referred to in Article 4 of the plan under discussion have been carried out for many years by specialised staff at the fully organized Tobacco and Cigarette Control Laboratory of the Institute for Genetic Improvement and Plant Resources of ELGO - "DIMITRA", formerly Smoking Institute of Greece, based in Drama. In the same place, the Water Quality Laboratory of the Region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace has recently been transferred. Due to the long-standing relevant know-how that exists in the Regional Branch of Drama and the executives of ELGO - "DIMITRA" working in the above laboratory and the fact that the cooperation of the two workshops brings, Minister, and may continue to bring additional benefits to a prefecture, which is financially and over time, I believe that the presence of the Tobacco Institute is necessary or as has been renamed and that it also helps the development of the prefecture. And since the bill shows that the relevant audit will be carried out by the General Chemistry of the State in other annexes, we would therefore be asking, or rather we would require that the Institute in Drama should continue to exist, because there is also know-how, but on the other hand, I think it helps one of the poorest prefectures in the country. I therefore believe that it will be included or, if it is not possible for the headquarters of the General Chemistry to remain there, at least to function as an annex. It is an appeal from the local society - I mean drama - to have an answer, Minister, on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. Mr Emmanuel Thraniotis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. I will not be tempted to comment on the views and designations which have been heard and which, in my view, do not go hand in hand with the parliamentary procedure. You will allow me, however, to refer to a speaker in the Committee on Social Affairs, who said in his denology: 'When I came here, I thought that another day would be lost'. And he went on to say, "But I am happy because I found that the debate was held at a high level, as it is appropriate to do in parliamentary procedures." We are now discussing the draft law, which contains legislation, regulations and administrative provisions on the production, presentation - how they will appear outside - and the sale of tobacco products and related derivatives. This bill concerns the entire Greek people, because it affects many areas of social and economic life, as well as the most important issues, those of health. It is true that smoking and in particular the active substance contained in tobacco, nicotine, is described as the addictive drug. Nicotine addiction is characterised by the same pharmacological and behavioural principles of other addictive substances, such as heroin and cocaine. Smoking has been characterised, because of the carcinogenic substances produced by the World Health Organisation, as the greatest epidemic of all time, as an incriminating and aggravating health factor. A number of diseases, as previous speakers have mentioned, often occur in smokers, such as coronary disease, cancer, lung disease, cardiovascular diseases, brain diseases, etc., which often lead to increased mortality. Smoking usually starts from adolescence either as curiosity either as a demonstration or as a reaction to the family or social environment and surroundings. Based on studies, a worryingly large proportion of students aged up to 15 have said that once they have tried to smoke. A large proportion of those who smoke older states that he started smoking from the age of 15 to eighteen and another large proportion, of 40%, from the ages of nineteen to twenty-five years. As regards new tobacco products and electronic cigarettes, despite the different approaches, that for example, electronic cigarettes are used or can be used to stop smoking, once it contains nicotine it is no longer a danger of importing into addiction and, in addition, because the chemical form currently available to fill most electronic cigarettes is produced without pharmaceutical or chemical control as regards its purity. Any investigations have not been studied in time to provide reliable conclusions. We therefore need to be careful, until we come to the conclusion - of course - that there will be too many years - in conclusions that demonstrates whether electronic cigarette is harming or benefiting. Based on what we summarise, tobacco and derived new products containing nicotine are a serious health risk. And because health as a good is not costly and does not enter the scale, it needs to be protected at all costs. The existing legislation, with the improvements proposed, such as extending the ban on smoking to concentration areas, for example to children's joys, which are an area that can bring mimicism - that is, to imitate children - at social meetings in closed areas, is enough as a restrictive measure to help reduce smoking and reduce passive smoking. The right or decision of the smoker is a personal choice. However, the right of non-smokers must also be respected, for the sake of the protection of their individual rights, but also for the protection of them against passive smoking. No matter how strict the law is, it is not enough to limit smoking and eliminate the health risks. Better and more suitable results can be achieved through knowledge and when convincingly developing and explaining the harmful effects of smoking. Prevention is more likely to give more positive results. This is where all of us are responsible. This effort, in order to have positive results, presupposes the cooperation and synergies of the educational community, the Ministry of Health, the family and the social environment and, of course, the potential smokers, who are not other than children of teenage age. Efforts to inform pupils need to be strengthened and welcomed. The effort is worth focusing on this and the results will certainly be spectacular. With regard to the concern of tobacco producers and the fear of losing part of their income, they can be limited if incentives are given. In addition, measures to combat smuggling of tobacco and its products by establishing the Coordinating Business Centre, as provided for in Article 6, and limiting illegal cross-border trade, will support tobacco producers and will contribute to the strengthening of the State’s revenue. Also important for controlling the movement of the above products is the establishment of a Single Central Register for the Supply Chain of Tobacco and Industrious Tobacco, such as the EMEA. Article 2. I should like to end by pointing out this: because this step is not only about discussion and dialogue here, but also about those who are listening to us and above all about youth, and because the position of everyone here is aimed at limiting smoking, I will make a proposal: to table a proposal in this House to ban cigarettes in Parliament and in the areas that exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Nicos Panagiotopoulos from New Democracy is the colleague who closes the list of speakers. Mr Lazaridis from the Independent Greeks and Mr Mantas from SYRIZA will remain to the end of the debate. Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is about incorporating a European directive into national law. However, there has been an opportunity for us to have a more general debate on smoking, and I think that a special debate should be held in this House on smoking, and indeed on smoking, not just at the point of view of health, because it is undoubtedly a very harmful habit - I do not think any of them should disagree on it - but also from the point of view of production. I dare say that I can say this as a Member of Eastern Macedonia, where tobacco production and tobacco production at one time and export activity of tobacco bloomed, emphasizing the local economy by a very large proportion and literally putting the region of Eastern Macedonia on the world map with the tobacco-producing regions of Xanthi, Drama, Serres, Kavala and the main export port of Kavala since the beginning of the 20th century. These issues must be seen in total. And if there is a comprehensive debate, we need to catch all the issues and the smuggling of cigarettes in any case, but also the application of the anti-smoking law. That is where our debate should begin. Because there is a sound and adequate anti-smoking law in our country, but it does not apply. So let us discuss the implementation of this, a serious attempt to start implementing. Perhaps in this debate we should start from us, because we must first of all set the good example in terms of the implementation of the law. The main argument, you know, is that every person controlled at each health store is: "But there, in the House, they smoke freely. Will you come to check and apply it?’ And the man is right. This is not allowed here, between us! I will, however, go ahead and say that, first of all, perhaps before us, this anti-smoking law should be started by the Deputy Minister of Health, who chooses nicely and nicely, as if nothing were happening, at a press conference of the Ministry and should light up cigarettes and smoke evenly not because of addiction, but because of magic, so to make a statement by his behaviour to the suppressed organs of the system that he dares to control that he does not understand from them and is above rules. And these are fine letters for him. In any case, I will come back to Mr Polakis' cheeks a little further. With regard to the bill we are discussing today, I simply have a point of criticism, I would say, not harsh, because I also recognise the effort of the Ministry's political leadership, a decent effort to implement this law, which is, moreover, the incorporation of European law into national law. After all, we have been fully and adequately covered by the suggestion made by Mr Yoyakas, our rapporteur. I feel that the authorisation procedure for the two categories of products covered by the Directive is poorly differentiated. In other words, on the one hand, new tobacco products which, as we know, contain a small amount of tobacco that does not burn like cigarettes, but is heated to a lower and controlled temperature in electronic cigarettes, on the other hand, which is the oldest form of this type of smoking, which contains nicotine liquids. Here, Minister, you are introducing a more stringent and bureaucratic procedure for new tobacco products: the setting-up of a special committee, an opinion, a ministerial decision to authorize the product. Why, then, so much process? Why this differentiation? Why should a ministry committee, a state body, once again judge a product on the market? Because this most unfavourable treatment in the new tobacco products, which use Greek East-style tobaccos as a raw material, produced by Greek companies - I have spoken about this - which feel that they are unfairly affected and that they are subject to a more unfavourable treatment. There are enough problems with the Greek tobacco industries, so that we can add another bureaucratic problem today. In your suggestion you have taken a positive step, you have shown a willingness to correct this different treatment in two similar products. Equate, in any case, this licensing procedure so that we can be fully in line with it. You will now allow me, since I have time, to make a comment which I believe is necessary in another type of directive, in my view, far more problematic, the famous 'Policy Directive' to the EEA Board of Directors to do, on the basis of a document, to transfer its money, does not exactly name how many, in cooperative banks, it does not name exactly what. Not to name, so for a steak, which we specifically want to transfer. In fact, the matter has come to an end, because the board of directors of the EEAO has already decided not to embrace this appeal by the Deputy Minister for the transfer of money to a cooperative bank and, in fact, not to obey it for the purpose of carrying out an unlawful act, protecting itself. If that were the case, I would say "get it together". He's gathered himself. Now I'm changing my wording, and I'd say 'Captain your Deputy Minister', because it's not the point of the matter. Like I told you, he's exhausted. No cash is transferred to cooperative banks. I must remind you that there is a contract in force, which has been signed between a financial institution and the EEAS, which entrusts the management of the financial resources of the Agency to this financial institution, which has come into effect following a public, open, international competition, with strict standards. And the final contractor has been identified as the one who has submitted the most advantageous financial offer. That's how the board of directors decided. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] For Mr. Polakis, however, that means nothing. And that's our question. It's his style and perception of exercising power. It does not respect the existence of this contract, it does not respect the need to respect the procedures. Considers that, as Minister, he can do 'what smokes him' - to use this expression, when we discuss this draft bill - that he is in any case contradicting all these conventions, all these institutionally and legally guaranteed commitments. And it makes written encouragement, on the eve of 15 August, to EOPY to transfer money to cooperative banks, invoking reasons for social policy. If that's possible! What social policy, in other words, is being conducted by transferring money from the EEA to specific banks? What kind of social policy is that? If he wants to make social policy, let him pay about 2 billion, which is still outstanding to dues to health and welfare structures on the ground and not to exhaust his inventiveness in the exercise of social policy, by transferring money to specific financial institutions of his choice, despite existing contracts. Let's do this. It's the style that bothers us, it's the style of the exercise of authority that takes us out of our clothes. A minister who says "power I am, I do what I want. I do not account for anything and anyone."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u253	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u254	I close, Mr President, because there are bells and other sounds. The ancients have said that the ruler, the ruler, must remember three things: firstly, that he is ruled, that he exercises authority over people who change their view of his authority, secondly, that he is ruled by law, that in his exercise of his authority he must remember that he must observe legality and apply the laws. And thirdly, that it does not exist, that is, that it does not exercise authority forever. Minister, I believe that your colleague has forgotten all of these three issues. In this style of power, we will be against all our powers. You can be sure of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, too. Candide, student of Plato, said that, Mr. Panayotopoulos. I say it to be consistent with history.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u256	Goodness, yes. I have not defined it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u257	Mr. Lazarides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say that many debts do come from the past and all the things you mentioned that the public owes private individuals come from your own times. In Thessaloniki I spoke the other day with the commander of "Papageorgios". Since 2012, he has accumulated debts of 200 million from the State. In 2012, this government did not rule. Two months ago she received seventy million.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u259	Now he's ruling, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u260	Yes, but these are sins coming from the past, your sins. You're going to be charged, and you're going to be judged because you hit the trigger on the gun and the bullet was leaving, and we're going to be judged because we didn't catch the bullet turning it back. Everyone's gonna apologize for what they're doing. Of course, it is. I have already heard the PASOK representative who spoke of sensitivity to the Minister, etc. I won't defend any smokers. The Minister doesn't have to defend him. Besides, I'm not a smoker myself. However, why didn't they show this sensitivity from PASOK when their Minister turned Europe and around the world and said that it governs a corrupt country and corrupt citizens? So is the Prime Minister of that period, Papandreou. I didn't see anyone from PASOK quit. Where's their sensitivity? So, their sensitivity was only when they saw a Deputy Minister lighting up a cigarette? Of course, you shouldn't. I'm not saying he did well. But imagine how many people had to resign when they saw the Minister come out and say these things abroad, or said that Greece is the "TITANIKOS" which is driven fast into the iceberg and will sink, thus trying to raise the country's borrowing costs. Therefore, sensitivity should be in all directions, not selective. The New Democracy, of course, has responsibilities here, and the mutant, the post-Karamanli New Democracy, which colluded with the PASOK and gave forgiveness to PASOK. Fifteen days ago, I had made a point here, and I made a complaint, if you would like, because the referral back to Georgiou, none of the New Democracy said a word. It is not only that George deceived the evidence and condemned the country in which we live. It's also the blackout, slandered the Karamanlis period, and in this way he gave a forgiveness of sin to Simitis, because the country's destruction, of course, starts that way. While we see that ten days have elapsed, no one from New Democracy has said a word, despite the fact that the new elements are coming, you want with the swaps, you want the loans for the equipment of the Simitis, you want the ten CCI which has passed - which has not been done anywhere in the world - to the deficit, in order to load and show that 2009 has a high deficit, and all the payments will be carried to 2010, so that it seems that 2010 has had a less deficit. I am also waiting for the New Democracy to say a word about the Georges case. ‘Silence of the tomb’. In any case, we should also say two words about this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about adapting Greek legislation to the European directive on tobacco products, the new framework for the movement and movement of tobacco products and electronic cigarettes. This new regulation text aims to prevent the use of tobacco products in public places and any commercial communication around them and therefore offers a first-class opportunity for review and anti-smoking policy, taking into account modern scientific research and European practice. It is clear that the European directive under discussion, which deals with tobacco products, aims to make it less attractive to smokers, but above all to young people in a country where smoking and related diseases cause 17% of deaths, at a direct cost of 1,75 billion annually. It is worth noting here that smoking is the first cause of death worldwide, as each year smoking kills nearly seven hundred thousand people in Europe, which makes tobacco consumption the greatest health-saving risk. Millions of European citizens also suffer from smoking-related diseases, 50% of them dying prematurely, on average 14 years earlier than non-smokers, while smokers, compared to non-smokers, spend more years of their lives with poor health. Worldwide, the World Health Organization estimates that tobacco consumption currently kills almost six million people each year at global level, and that figure can increase, unless measures are taken, to reverse this worrying trend. Only in listening to this information should we understand that smoking control and reduction is an extremely important issue for health in Greece and the European Union, but also worldwide. To deal with this situation, the European Union and its Member States have taken various anti-smoking measures in the form of legislation, recommendations and information campaigns. Policy measures include the following: Regulation on the regulation of tobacco products in the European Union market. For example, packaging with labels and ingredients. Restrictions on the advertising of tobacco products. The creation of places where smoking is prohibited. Tax measures and actions against smuggling and anti-smoking campaigns. As far as public health is concerned, measures aim to protect citizens from the harmful effects of smoking and other forms of tobacco consumption, such as passive smoking. Most importantly, however, it is intended to help smokers to quit smoking, and the rest of the citizens do not start it. Particular attention is paid to young people because tobacco is an addictive product and 94% of smokers start smoking 25 years ago. If we agree that those who do not tolerate smoking in the catering areas are a silent passive minority, let us think that much of the legislative provision is about defending minority rights. This also distinguishes developed democracies from the others. Let's decide where we want to belong. After all, according to surveys, 76% of the Greeks feel anger that Greece is the only European Union country that does not apply the law for the protection against passive smoking, while, respectively, 78% of the Greeks believe that the non-implementation of the law against passive smoking is a sign of cultural degradation of our country, as the President of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association noted during the preparation of the bill in the Committees. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not go any further into the regulation text, since our positions and political approach to this issue are well known from our colleagues and special speaker's positions in the committee responsible. I would, however, like to stress that this government introduces laws and rules, not only for tax revenue, but in order to enable the citizen to feel secure when making use of a product or service with the State to keep the supervision and control of the whole supply chain of tobacco from customs to store shelves, as well as supervision of the safety and quality of the product offered to the citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u262	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the history of man and his addictions in time is a long story. It includes many periods of particular - if you like - phenomena, like multiple interventions by the ordered state, whenever it was like such in the history of humanity, which have very complex questions and very critical questions, which often have no answers or are in any way in a process of all these things. Nor can we forget that in today's world, as it has been - let us say - in the last two centuries, we have in these areas of addictive substances - one of these is the tobacco we are talking about today and tobacco products in one or another - huge conflict of multiple interests, giants at world level and, therefore, sometimes I think that we too may feel weak in the face of these phenomena. So it's a very difficult context. There are no simple answers. There are no finished issues in the history of mankind - I repeat - on these issues. That is why we need to avoid facilities. In any case, it is my view, which I have set up in my mind with regard to these issues. We must avoid simplifications in these things, and we must avoid generalisations in these matters. Let me say about this two - three observations, because I would also like to talk about a number of other issues that have entered the debate. The first is the next day. There is widespread anxiety throughout Parliament. There was before today, I imagine, many and many, not only in our Parliament, but also in other parliaments, but also in the world, in relation to what we are doing precisely to this big issue, which is a public health issue. In fact, what we are doing at this particular stage. Because I think we have all seen either we are in this professional space or, more generally, the different behaviours that have been evolving in recent years. I say, for example: We now have a massive appearance in our country of electronic cigarettes, as at this time we have had the mass appearance of cigarette rollers, that is, the abandonment of the package. We see especially in younger populations, because of the economic crisis, I imagine, a turn in these forms. The next day, then, and the regulation that the bill brings, I think, is reinstated, on the basis of these developments, what the state can do to put the framework of prohibitions mainly in public spaces. However, we are all aware that challenges are ahead of us and that the implementation of this framework and, in particular, the application of anti-smoking legislation through its extension to products - such as electronic cigarettes - which concern the operation of this framework, particularly, first and foremost, public spaces, I think they are in front of us. It is really a question of how these conflicts will be organised. Because many Members and the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative have today tabled the concerns and experiential experiences of this poor situation, which exists in public space, in relation to the implementation of legislation. I therefore think that we have a lot of work to do and I agree - because this is a way that can really affect - to do practical things, first of all, starting from the very place in which we operate, even if it makes it difficult for some people, who depend on tobacco products. I think there is no doubt that we must be absolute in public spaces. There is no other way of dealing with this, I say again, and at this level to take practical steps. I would also like to say another thing, which I have been thinking about, which I would like to say in a public way, because they were said in public. I saw - and I think I should note this - a favourable, I would say, spin the patch towards the electronic cigarette. In fact, I have heard from the dear President-in-Office, and I would like to say that scientifically speaking I am not at all in agreement. Because, at least, I have not seen anywhere that we may compare electronic cigarettes to other addictions and that today is a given knowledge, a repressed knowledge that this is a way of reducing the damage in proportion to drug substitutes and that this is a given knowledge, which we can implement. If that's the case, things change. But I have the impression that it is not at all like this, and I think we should be absolutely careful about these issues and, of course, do the scientific debate where we have to do it with all the data. I will conclude, in the minutes left, with some general remarks and points from the debate that has taken place. I am surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that, in today's debate, some parliamentary representatives have discovered problems in a historical newspaper on the Left - which is struggling to stand on its feet, which has a very long journey and a very heavy legacy - with suspicions and questions that they wish to show that there are dark points in the operation and the issues surrounding 'AGEAN'. They - not all of us, but I would call it the systemic opposition - have almost threatened us that if we say again about maritime loans to businesses in the media sector, with the exception of a few exceptions, we will be liars. Mercy! You can't - apparently - digest, you can't realize we're on the next day. We are on the next day, where, after twenty-seven years, legal permits were finally granted. And, of course, we are in a process, because we have not finished monitoring 'from now on' in the first five days. For the first time, however, this has been done. And it was a responsibility towards legality and democracy to make this process happen and it was done. And there's no point in saying why you didn't do it for twenty-seven years. You don't have one. You can't answer that. In fact, the idea has come to be added today - Mr. Dendias is a prominent member of the New Democracy - who said that, not only will we abolish the Pappa law and restore things in this area, but we will return, because we are not battered, and some of the costs that these businessmen have done in the tender procedure. Mercy! I would like to say, however, about 'HUNGARY', because it is important. I think that some things need to be restored from this public step by step. There have been two main categories here. One concerned the issue of lending, and the other concerned who at last hides behind this famous 2.5%, who is this terrible guy, who, in one of the company's renews of the company's share capital, put the terrible amount of EUR 100,000 to get 16 000 shares.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u263	Tell us to get this over with, to be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u264	You won't be quiet. This company has a name. Its name is known, “ITLAS”. It is based in Nicosia. It's not offshore, as it's badly said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u265	Somebody's got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u266	So you'll find it, you who are a demon in your space. You're a demon detective. You'll find it, and you'll tell everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u267	I'll go back to antiquity and see who Atlas was.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u268	Please, Mr. Cryazides, do not interrupt. Keep going, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u269	It is quite clear that something has smacked them - let us say it - the interest in this attempt on the left in this historical form and they cannot digest it. You know very well that her big shareholder is SYRIZA. He's got 40 percent. Of course he's interested. And, of course, the law has not been violated, as you said, Mrs Kerameau, as a parliamentary representative. What is happening and you also know that because we have said so many times is that SYRIZA's executives and friends and MPs, giving 40% of their parliamentary compensation to activities between them and others by strengthening the corresponding forms in the area of the Left, assisting and supporting this form. Secondly, as far as the loan, amounting to 1.2 million, was, as you know, taken into an earlier era in 2008-2009. And, as Mr Stubos said yesterday in the respective committee, see the balance sheets. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, and forgive me for the time I have taken. I will just say one thing here: during the same period the wider public sector owed more than 2 million to "SGEI". And also, with the particular traffic he had at that time, the National National had approved that this company could pay, as he pays, normally EUR 15,000 every month for her loan. Don't look, you won't find anything dark and nothing weird about it. And, lastly, the crocodile tears continue in relation to the workers. ‘I heard someone say for two thousand, and I don't know exactly where you're going to see the number, but two thousand left after the thousands of redundancies that have taken place over the last few years. Approximately 40% reduction in the number of workers in the media sector. In any case, there is today, after the meeting of the Minister of State and the Minister of Labour with the representatives of people who are in real danger of finding unemployment, a concrete package of measures so that we can support the workers in this area who can be at this risk. I conclude by saying this: Look, ladies and gentlemen, I think none of us operates in the constellation of successory. We have a full consciousness of where we are, we have a full consciousness of the difficulties. We are fully aware that we are at a time when we will not celebrate, but we will not retreat in front of this incredible systemic attack that will intensify the next period of time. And you will continue to ask for one-sided elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u271	Mr President, I want the floor for two minutes to make a very brief point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u272	Mrs. Keramea has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, I listened very carefully to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Manda, and I would like to make a very brief point. We have not heard from the Stepma of this House, despite the fact that the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative has been given a long time to answer what this natural person, who is behind the offshore company, is after all, because it is a legal company of offshore, Mr Manta. Who is this natural person, then, who hides behind the offshore company, which appears on SYRIZA's blog? I would remind you that the law imposes the nomination of shareholders unless the country in which the company is located provides otherwise. Cyprus in this respect provides for the denomination of the shareholders. Therefore, I have not heard a single legal argument and, in any case, the Greek people expect you to explain, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, because there will be noise, as the CEO of Dawn, from the revelation of that name. The second point - and I close, Mr President - is that we have not heard, again, how you justify that SYRIZA supports SYRIZA financially. Because, Mr. Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, the CEO of SYRIZA said SYRIZA was financially supporting SYRIZA. He didn't say his members, he didn't say party friends, SYRIZA said. We therefore expect an answer according to n. 4304/2014, which explicitly states that state funding cannot be granted for purposes other than operating expenditure, electoral expenses, education or other similar purposes. Unless you're telling us that the financing of AGEAN is doing training. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mrs. Kerameus. Mr Lambroulis and Mrs Megalo-Economics have been asked for the floor. Are there three minutes, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u275	And less, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u276	For three minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u277	Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u278	I will be very brief, Mr President. Thank you. I have asked for the floor to be put on the two amendments. One is a ministerial amendment and the other, which was accepted by the Minister, is a parliamentary amendment. Of course, I would like to stress again, regardless of the answer we have heard from the Minister, that as far as the amendment we have tabled for the workers in the municipalities throughout Greece, for the contractors are concerned, we insist that the amendment could be passed and, above all, that they should be guaranteed with a view to their working life. I do not know what amendment the Minister for the Interior will be tabling in the next bill next week. Of course, it can also be discussed there, but we insist that this amendment can be debated today and passed. After all, whether the other parties were placed or not, I think he would have a wider acceptance. I now come to the amendments. We shall vote against the Ministerial Amendment. We disagree with these specific working relationships regardless of time, as the Minister has argued, which he wants to cover. Let's make sure you cover them before with permanent and stable staff. This is our fixed position, our permanent beginning. That is why we are fighting, and that is why we are claiming both through the labour union movement and the health sector and not only in this area. With regard to the second amendment by SYRIZA Members, which concerns - let me say - the change of this proposal to a previous draft law, we will vote in favour. Of course, it goes on to solve a problem that has arisen with regard to the recruitment procedure for permanent staff with the recruitment of subsidiary staff, but we say again that it is well known to everyone that hospitals are shedding from staff shortages. We say that there must be permanent staff with stable labour relations. It is a huge problem, and these issues are not solved with the assistants. Every time we come and extend terms, we change articles in laws or proposals like this one and go by saying for at least a year, but also before. So here are the problems, here are the needs, to promote permanent and permanent work for workers, so that hospitals also operate properly, with everything that implies for the constant and permanent work of the workers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr President. As far as Amendment No 661 is concerned, I was not covered by the Minister. We have called for the positions of medical staff to be permanent and to be documented and with specific standards for those who will understand the positions. We did not get the right answer. For electronic cigarettes, we still do not have the absolute assurance of how to ensure and how to get the answers we are waiting for. We expect, at least over time, to be given evidence, because we are now at a time when we are deciding to ban it in public spaces, but without having the documentation we want. We hope that we will be given an answer in time. In 2009, when the previous decision, the anti-smoking, has never been implemented, and the joint ministerial decision, 104720/2010, which imposed fines for the five hundred euros, has still not been implemented in the new law, which we are voting on, has been fined. I believe that if we want the law to be implemented, it will take flesh and bone, because it will now begin the difficult way for the government, which is proclaimed to implement it. However, I do not believe that she will apply it either, it will simply remain what has happened with the previous ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, too. We'll hang up with the minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u282	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u283	Do you want to answer what Mrs Kerameos asked, or do you want to speak in general?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u284	Oh, no. In the comments that have now been made here at the end by Mrs Kerameos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u285	Good. Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u286	Ladies and gentlemen, everything has been heard in this House. I do not really know, I wonder about this demon that has caught the New Democracy MPs on who this famous person gave 100,000 euros to get sixteen thousand shares. Among those who are in this Chamber, by SYRIZA MPs, some of us are small shareholders of this historic newspaper. Also, I do not understand the insistence that it is illegal to channel state subsidies to the newspaper. What I said is that SYRIZA is made up of people. Isn't that right? Its members, its members, its MPs, we thus feel our function in the party and in SYRIZA, who is a major shareholder of AGEAN, has 40% and gives in various ways - I said one of the Members concerned - and strengthens this form when it needs to be strengthened. It's over and out. For the rest, I repeat the following. It's not offshore. It's a company, which has a name, it has a seat, it has given this amount, it has given it, and perfection. But it is worth wondering, Mr President, how so many days New Democracy cannot answer the substance of what is going on with this famous loan from its leader, who has a loan of EUR 700,000.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u287	You have received a reply, Mr Mada, on 13 June.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u288	Let me finish, my colleague. So there has been no adequate response to that, what happens to it. The New Democracy itself has EUR 200,000, 000, if I am not mistaken - perhaps less - debts, which it pays but which will end the repayment in the next 100 years. In any case, let us finally find out what its position on the subject of the television landscape is. Let's end up. We wait with too much patience and anxiety to see where it will end up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u289	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u290	Starting with, I'd like to say we're making a little scrupulous legal improvement. In our amendment we add 'until 30-9-2016' to the effect that the contracts ending until 30 and not 30, because we were told by various hospitals that there was an misinterpretation of that. I put it in the Minutes, and we're closing down with this loose end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u291	I would like to say this by closing the debate: I think it was indeed a fruitful procedure for both the three committees and the plenary. There was, indeed, a climate of good dialogue and contribution to a reflection, which is obviously open and does not close, especially when there are issues on which scientific research continues, there is a debate in Europe's institutions, and each country chooses and legislates on the basis of its specificities and on the basis of its concerns. I would like to stress what the commitment and the starting point of this intervention is. We have said this a hundred times, and now, our concern is to rely on this intervention primarily on the protection of public health. The multiple, diverse, diverse and conflicting interests of the area are well known, too much, and, as Mr Mantas rightly pointed out, they are very strong. We have heard them all, we have taken into account their positions, and we have tried to make a balanced arrangement as much as possible. I think that has largely been achieved. We have consciously chosen not to put as a crucial element in our argument the issue of reducing care costs from an application of the anti-smoking law. Not that it doesn't matter. Obviously it matters, especially when we are at a time when there is asymmetry between the needs and resources that this country has. But there I think there is a great scope to intervene, to set up mechanisms to control the demand challenge, to create mechanisms for rational use of resources, technology, medicines, and to convince society that at this time the limited human and material resources available in our country can really be made available on the basis of the health needs of citizens and not on the basis of influences of interests, customer circuits and factories. Here, let me say that I really find the criticism of appointments to a health system, in which the appointments of permanent staff had been effectively suspended for six years, all of which recognize their gaps and needs, which everyone is shouting and proclaiming in favour of covering gaps and addressing requests from hospitals, etc., while the government has been promoting a coherent plan, which is obviously the most rapid process, particularly for doctors and permanent staff, which no one disputes. Some time ago, they were talking to us about a ghost hire. There are now hundreds of workers who have worked and work in public hospitals. At this difficult juncture we have managed to appoint over a thousand two hundred, a thousand three hundred ASs since last year, covering real needs, without putting doctors of our choice to support an election clientele. These needs came from the hospitals with documentation from the hospital scientific bodies, from the medical services. There was certification by the administration of hospitals, there was the certification of the credit commitment, to pay these people a special line, increased, which we had foreseen for this year. So we need to answer seriously from now on: do we want, yes or no, recruitment to the public health system? Do we want, yes or no, to cover gaps throughout the country, especially in the large hospitals, in hospitals which are unique in every county and of course in primary care structures? We therefore implement this plan. And we would like to hear what the counter-proposal is about - to tell us, in other words, that some people perhaps think that these recruitments are insufficient - and to help us in an effort to increase the financial space to strengthen public care and the welfare state in the next few years. The debate is closing and is opening up the great challenge, which is the implementation of the law. I couldn't agree more. It is a step that is important, as I said before, but the big, critical steps are coming. So what we must commit is that, firstly, we will provoke the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs which we have committed ourselves, we will pursue the best possible political understanding, and we will call for everyone's help to have an action plan and an effective implementation of the law. We do not have the illusion that the law will suddenly be implemented everywhere and universally. However, in critical areas, particularly in the areas of public administration, parliament, hospitals, education and ministries, they must inspire a culture of zero tolerance to smoking and zero exposure of citizens to the side effects of forced smoking. As for the strictness we have criticised: When there really is a established climate of lawlessness, immunity, infraction, impunity in the country - and this has been established for decades and has been about all the joints of society - it is very important to send the signal that this chapter is slowly closing. A signal we sent a few days ago and probably has annoyed too many, was that the period of protracted lawlessness and immunity of the systemic media has ended in the country. Because we insisted on licensing - I have already explained this - because there has been a lot of discussion about this: cigarettes have been going on for years. The electronic cigarette has been released for decades. New tobacco products are now entering the market. So there has now to be a procedure beyond the simple notification, because they are new products, because they have not been verified, because there are, of course, claims on the one hand, but there are many well-founded claims on the other. That is why we have put the licensing procedure in place, not in order to prevent their circulation, but in order to feel like a state, but above all, the citizens safe, that these products cannot cause side effects and effects beyond the harmfulness of nicotine. There was a report by Mr. Kyriazidis on the laboratories. Article 4 expressly states that the measurements are verified by the accredited laboratory of the General Chemistry of the State or other laboratories, which are accredited by a separate functional unit of accreditation of the National Quality Infrastructure (ICS) and only provided that they meet three specifications: It is on Greek territory, it is not directly or indirectly controlled by the tobacco industry and of course have an accreditation certificate. I think that this laboratory you are talking about falls completely into this category and there will be absolutely no problem. Obviously we want public laboratories primarily and regardless of which ministry they belong to and where they are supervised, to contribute to this effort and to have a valid opinion and a proper licence. I don't think I have anything to add. I believe it is my duty to thank all the colleagues who contributed to this debate, to thank the representatives of the scientific community, the medical community, the representatives of companies, our representative in the European Union, Mr Behrkis, on tobacco issues, who have contributed with their article, their literature, with their proof of creating this climate of consensus in this House. It is also very pleasant and very encouraging that I see, even in the reproduction of this climate by the media, how a favourable ground is indeed created to actually implement the law. The voices of interest and the peaks of such a type did not find accustomed ears. I think that the House with its current legislation is taking an important step in the direction of public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u292	We shall now proceed to the end of the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC (No. L 127/1 of 29.4.2014), as amended by Commission Delegated Directive 2014/109/EU of 10 October 2014 amending Annex II to Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council by establishing a library of iconographic warnings to be used for tobacco products and other relevant provisions.’; Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u294	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u295	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u297	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u300	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u301	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC (No. L 127/1 of 29.4.2014), as amended by Commission Delegated Directive 2014/109/EU of 10 October 2014 amending Annex II to Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council by establishing a library of iconographic warnings to be used for tobacco products, as well as other relevant provisions, was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u302	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u303	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u304	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u305	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u306	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u308	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u309	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u310	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u315	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u317	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u318	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u319	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u322	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u326	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u327	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u328	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u331	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u333	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u335	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u336	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u337	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 5 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u340	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u342	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u344	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u346	Article 5 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u347	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u351	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u352	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u353	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u354	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u355	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u356	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u358	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u359	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u360	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u361	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u362	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u363	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u364	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u365	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u367	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u369	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u371	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u373	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u376	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u378	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u381	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u382	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u385	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u387	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u389	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u391	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u393	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u394	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u395	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u396	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u397	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u398	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u399	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u400	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u401	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u402	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u403	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u404	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u405	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u407	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u408	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u409	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u410	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u413	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u414	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u416	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u418	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u421	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u423	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u424	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u425	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u426	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u427	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u429	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u430	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u431	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u432	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u434	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u435	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u436	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u440	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u441	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u444	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u445	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u446	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u447	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u448	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u449	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u450	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u451	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u452	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u453	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u454	Article 17 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u455	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u457	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u461	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u463	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u466	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u467	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u468	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u472	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u475	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u477	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u481	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u484	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u485	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u486	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u490	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u493	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u495	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u499	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u502	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u503	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u504	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u508	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u510	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u511	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u512	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u513	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u517	Article 24 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u521	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u522	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u526	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u529	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u531	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u533	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u535	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u536	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u538	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u540	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u542	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u544	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u547	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u548	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u549	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u551	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u552	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u553	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 661 and a special number 55 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u556	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u557	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u558	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u560	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u562	The amendment under a general number of 661 and a special 55 was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 660 and a special 54, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u564	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u565	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u566	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u568	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u569	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u570	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u571	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 660 and a special 54 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u574	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u575	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u576	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u578	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u579	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u580	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Legislation of the Ministry of Health: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC (No. L 127/1 of 29.4.2014), as amended by Commission Delegated Directive 2014/109/EU of 10 October 2014 amending Annex II to Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council by establishing a library of iconographic warnings to be used for tobacco products, as well as other relevant provisions’ has been accepted in principle, on articles and on amendments by majority vote. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u581	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u583	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u584	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u585	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u587	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u588	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u589	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Legislation of the Ministry of Health: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC (No. L 127/1 of 29.4.2014), as amended by Commission Delegated Directive 2014/109/EU of 10 October 2014 amending Annex II to Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council by establishing a library of iconographic warnings to be used for tobacco products, as well as other relevant provisions’, has been accepted by a majority, in principle, of articles, amendments and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u590	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u591	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-08-S1-commons.u592	With the consent of the House at 17.20 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 9 September 2016 at 10 a.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a topical questions debate.
