ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development 'Simply procedures for setting up undertakings, removing regulatory barriers to competition and other provisions'. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Single debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: 'Simply procedures for setting up undertakings, removing regulatory barriers to competition and other provisions'. The above bill, following the decision of the Standing Parliamentary Committee on Production and Trade, on a proposal from the relevant Minister, is discussed in accordance with the urgency procedure, in accordance with Rule 76(4) of the Constitution and Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. At this point I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 28 November 2016, the debate on the principle and on the articles will be concluded in a sitting of a maximum of ten hours, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. It is a question of the Rules of Procedure. The rapporteurs and special speakers, the Prime Minister, the Minister responsible, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and one of their representatives are involved in the debate. Their speech is limited to half the time provided for in Rules 97 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. I propose, although not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, that five speakers from SYRIZA, three speakers from New Democracy, a certain speaker from the People's Association - Golden Dawn, a certain speaker from the Democratic Asylum PASOK - DIMAR, a certain speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, a certain speaker from Potami, a certain speaker from the Independent Greeks, a certain speaker from the Central Association and a certain speaker from the independent MPs. Finally, I propose that the debate in principle and the articles should be uniform. As far as speaking time is concerned, I propose that the rapporteurs and the special speaker should have twelve minutes of speaking time, the competent Minister, 13 minutes, the other ministers and State Secretarys, the Prime Minister - if they were here - and the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, as well as the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, 14 minutes, the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups, 12 minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives, ten minutes, set up by the parties five minutes. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Gara, therefore has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u4	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, I would like to turn to the Rules of Procedure with regard to the procedure you have proposed. I am very well aware of the relevant parliamentary procedures, the competence of the Conference of Presidents and have been informed by Mr Constantinople with details of yesterday's meeting of the Standing Committee. But here, the House as a sovereign House reiterates your proposal, the proposal you have put forward, respecting all the procedure that I have mentioned, and you have mentioned it. However, I would like to make some points absolutely necessary and to take them into account in this House, in order to take the decision here as a sovereign parliamentary body. Mr President, as a parliamentary representative of the PASOK-DIMAR Democratic Incorporation, I have a memory and I can remember what the current rapporteurs of this procedure have said, which has no parliamentary limits. There are no limits to parliamentarians! Was GPS an emergency? Were you pressing for ex post ratifications of illegal contracts? These are provisions in this draft law. I remember, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the present majority in the House saying that we are deciding and 'commodating' procedures which, halfway through what they do today and less, we had chosen as urgent procedures. We are turning the parliamentary procedure into a black-money-laundering process. Those who currently legalise contracts, invalid contracts, and who optionally place the GPS, said that we are legalising money laundering under the urgency procedure. They said these procedures were foreign to democracy! And only in 2016 have appealed to the urgency procedure for the refugee, for the "TRAINOSE", for the mosque, for the "COSCO", for the civil aviation service and for other issues which were not of urgency, they were acquired by a government that has no plan, as it has been proved, that sees and does what serves it, serves it in the National Representation. Mr President, I would ask you very much to put to a debate on the part of the sovereign body, which can overturn all the decisions of the Conference of Presidents and Committees on the urgency of the matter, and at least the parliamentary groups should take the responsibility of exempting from the current draft conventions and GPS, otherwise we have a majority that does not simply transfer what they say to it, but is also abusive interests. I say this openly, it's a drug dealer!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u6	Mrs. Gara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u7	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not comment on what my colleague Mr Loverdos said, because their practice in previous years has shown how they behaved and what interests they were serving. Urgent was a practice that was introduced into Parliament themselves and we, trying to get the country out of the crisis and bring stability, use different procedures. Nevertheless, there are transitional procedures and transitional provisions that we have had to go through quickly, in the context of a negotiation, which is still open and we have commitments to the time limits. However, on the occasion of the debate and today's bill, you will allow me to make a reference...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I have proposed something. Did you just tie me up? I suggested that you put it in the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u9	Why are you interrupting me, Mr. Loverdos, while I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u10	...and you said that my colleague would go up and talk? You've done it badly. I made a suggestion to you. You must respect the parliamentary groups. It's not my colleague's fault! You invited her to Stepma! I made a suggestion to you. Did you reject this proposal? Tell me. Tell me now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u11	Stop it, Mr. Loverdos!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u12	No, Mr President, I do not stop. We're not stopping! I made a suggestion to you. You should tell us what you are doing. Do you reject it? I have proposed that you put it in this House. Are we a parliamentary group elected by the Greek people and defying us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u13	Carry on, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u14	It is not going to continue, Mr President. I'm afraid so. You are undermining the procedure you have to run. You will tell me whether you are accepting or rejecting my proposal and why you have not put it in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u15	Can I go on while I have the floor, at least?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u16	No, my colleague. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u17	Yeah, but you had to talk and place before I started my placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u18	It's not your fault. I begged you to wait. Listen to the proposal. You're a majority. It's addressed to you, too. Do you accept the request or reject it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u19	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u20	I'm a parliamentary representative. Mr President, I have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Loverdo, you spoke. Mrs. Gara has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u22	Mrs. Gara doesn't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u23	When it's over, then I'll...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u24	You have the floor. As long as you despise this House...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Loverdo, first, when the rapporteur speaks...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u26	Let go of this, Mr. President. I'm suggesting. I want you to tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u27	No one can interrupt him under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u28	That's... This is the Greek Parliament. You should give the floor to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u29	You should have before he took the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u30	Give the floor to the majority. Is the proposal rejected?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Loverdo, you will force me to apply the Rules of Procedure. Please, sit down. Mrs. Gara, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u32	No, I'm not sitting. Ask the House, otherwise you will be involved in something you are not entitled to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u33	Carry on, Mrs. Gara.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u34	It's up to the Rules of Procedure. Apply the Rules of Procedure to all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u35	You're very welcome. My time to zero to start over. Mr. Loverdo, as soon as I'm done, since the President gives me the floor, you'll be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u36	I'm not addressing you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u37	He's given it to me. I've begun.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u38	Apply the Rules of Procedure as laid down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, I am sorry, but in such circumstances I think we cannot have a debate. I would ask my colleague to respect that you have given me the floor. I have to be placed. Besides, we have a very serious conversation to do, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u40	We tabled a proposal. Apply the Rules of Procedure and say that you reject what I propose.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Loverdo, this House has agreed to go with this procedure before you enter the Chamber. Then you took the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u42	This is a matter of parliamentary order. I want you to answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u43	Yeah. But you're talking in my time, my time is running, and I already have the floor. I'm the only one I'm entitled to talk to right now. And you don't respect me as a colleague. Please, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u44	Mrs. Gara, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u45	For the fourth time the President has given me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u46	I want you to answer me. Apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u47	In the context of good parliamentary practice, what should I do, Mr Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, you must ask this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u49	Here you were elected to apply the Rules of Procedure. You made a mistake in summoning my colleague to Vima.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u50	Please, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u51	I won't sit down if you don't tell me how to handle the proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u52	The speech of my colleague will not be interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u53	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Loverdo, I run the meeting. The rapporteur will not be interrupted. It'll be over and I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u55	I won't sit down if you don't answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u56	You're not the one who's dealing with the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u57	We've already been asked, and we've consented, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u58	Tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u59	I don't have to tell you. I'll answer as soon as Mrs. Gara is done. You are not entitled to interrupt the proceedings.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u60	If you think we were elected by the Greek people here to despise us, you are wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Loverdo, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u62	I am the expression of popular sovereignty.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u63	We will not interrupt the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u64	As long as you offend democratic processes, we will not retreat.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u65	Please, have a seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u66	As long as you offend democracy, we will highlight it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u67	You are not entitled to be above the House. Have a seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u68	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u69	You're the majority. What are you afraid of?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u70	Call the House to decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u71	Before you took the floor, the House was asked, Mr. Loverdos, and we agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u72	I will reply as soon as the rapporteur is finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u73	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u74	You will not arrange for Parliament's procedure. Here there is a parliament, there is a rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u75	You must respect him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u76	I'm presided over right now. I heard your opinion. You won't force her. Sit down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u77	No, of course not. Democracy gives the solution. Call the House to decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u78	It won't do what you're saying. I'll answer as soon as Mrs. Gara is done. If the floor has been given, it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure to interrupt and to open a debate. You should...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u79	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u80	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u81	You will tell us whether you are accepting or rejecting the motion of the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u82	I'll answer as soon as Mrs. Gara is done. If the floor has been given, it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure to interrupt and to open a debate. The reason was given, I should...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u83	No, Mr President, answer me on a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u84	Will you talk all the time? Well, well, you're talking about not talking to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u85	I made a suggestion, tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u86	I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u87	What did you tell me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u88	That after the rapporteur started his speech, he will finish and I will reply to you. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u89	Are you going to answer me then?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u90	When it's over, I told you this all along.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u91	You'll answer me then, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u92	I told you all along, I didn't tell you now. I told you all over again. Please respect Parliament and its Rules of Procedure. Carry on, Mrs. Gara.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u93	You don't respect her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u94	Please, have a seat. I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u95	And from what I see you do not know about the Rules of Procedure, you consult the secretariat.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u96	I don't have to consult, I have the Rules of Procedure in front of me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u97	They brought you after five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u98	I have him in front of me and I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u99	It's elementary when a parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u100	I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u101	Are you in the same party?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Nicolopoulos, as you know, the President of the House, the President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u103	You're a super-party, I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u104	...is obliged to apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u105	No, I'm saying it because he said he's serious accusations on your face.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u106	Look...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u107	Think you weren't in the same party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u108	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u109	Can I continue, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u110	Of course, Mrs Gara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u111	After this eight-minute break about nine minutes and after the morning show we just lived, please zero my time. Thank you, Mr President. I propose that we return to serious issues and topical issues, which are mainly concerned with our fellow citizens, but also with the country as a whole and, above all, with the professionals and workers of that country. On the occasion of discussion of this draft law, I would like to refer more generally to the issues of the economy. Successful completion of the first assessment, as well as the forthcoming closure of the second assessment, the discussion on debt relief, together with necessary reforms, create policy and fiscal stability, support for the economy and labour and, above all, the liberalisation of an important social and development potential in the country. Most of all, however, they create a wider framework of perspective, so that by steady steps the country will come out of the crisis and put an end to the recession, unemployment and austerity. With a plan, with small and large interventions, with democratic areas, with social cohesion, with the modernisation of the public sector, with the strengthening of the country's geopolitical position and with the support of healthy forces, we can turn to a chapter on growth and creation, into a chapter on another Greece that we all probably want. We are well aware of the difficulties that exist, we know the pathogens, we know the obstacles. However, we are determined to turn this page and change productive and developmental model for the benefit of society. Often recently, there has been a question of what development we want and on this question there are two conflicting worlds. Let us first mention what growth we do not want. We do not want a plastic loan growth. We do not want to see a development of offshore and tactical funds. We do not want to see speculators, national contractors, friends and citizens developed. We do not want the development of the few that plunders the rights of many. We do not want to see a growth in the best, the best, the best, the most smugglers, the smuggling, the duplication, bureaucracy, the low labour costs, the ghost investments. And if, as if I described Greece of the very recent past, as well as the dreams that many of our colleagues have had about the country and a model they have served for decades. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we are working on a fair growth that strengthens entrepreneurship with respect for labour and product quality. A development that has no exclusion and the benefits will be shared throughout society. A development that will protect public goods will use it in the common interest. A model that will enhance production, the cyclical economy, the extroversion and respect the environment. Ladies and gentlemen, in the productive and social model that we are serving, we want a strong public sector, taking advantage of the labour market and the economy, the arm of public investment. We want a public sector with modern services, digitalised, simple procedures for all citizens. Millions of euros have been spent in previous years and digitalised services have not yet been seen. Only in the last few months have these platforms been set up and some services are in place. We therefore want a public sector that constantly improves public infrastructure and a public sector that serves the social benefit. We want a public sector that will also serve the private economy and create a friendly environment for business and investment. One of the great diseases in our country is bad public services, gigantic bureaucracy, great cost, and time, with professionals many times to look into the gears of bureaucracy and never to unleash, not to complete investments. It is a system in the end that gives birth to and supports the misassis and complexity, and many have served and continued this system. Often we repeat that the small and medium-sized market is the arm of the Greek economy. In order to support the flexibility of the private economy and business, therefore, we are creating a framework for financial support for modern services and facilitating the active professionals who have already been affected by the crisis. We all know that four programmes of development law are already in progress, which was designed to disperse funds into the small and medium-sized market. Despite the predictions from the Opposition that development law will never be energised, or will be too late without serving the interests of small and medium-sized professionals, business is already of great interest, after we have checked and settled the dowry that has left us with governments from earlier development laws. Let me note that the older governments were working with promises only, as they incorporated investment projects into development laws without the necessary funds to cover investment projects. This was, after all, the development they envisioned. Continuing, we know that the ESDP programmes are already running with enormous interest also of thousands of professionals. The first programmes of the Rural Development Programme for the rural and manufacturing world were launched. A new "Security" programme has been launched and the surplus from the Public Investment Programme is being exploited. We also support research and technology, particularly for young scientists. Also, we are already planning to set up a Participating Fund, and we are making use of the Juncker package and of cooperation with the European Investment Bank. At the same time, we are creating a framework for regulation on the market by regulating red loans, the hundreds of doses that gave rise to thousands of our fellow citizens, the clearing of debts and the'second chance' law. I would remind you that the new framework for simplifying licensing has been introduced and discussed. A business is being set up by means of a single e-mail notification, and the creation of an open trusted account and the abolition of the criminal prosecution for the OAU has already been passed here in Parliament. I wonder how New Democracy still claims to support entrepreneurship when criminalising professionals for debts of 5,000 euros! Ladies and gentlemen, for us support and organisation of business and private economy has a strategic orientation. In this context we are today bringing the one-stop-stop-stage bill and other regulatory provisions concerning professional groups or improving the legislative framework and simplifying it. I shall briefly refer to the provisions of the bill, as almost all the articles provided for in the bill were analysed in the committees yesterday. Today we are expanding and developing the institution of the "one-Stage Services", bringing an innovation on Greek data, the "one-Stage Service". Law 3853/2010 introduced for the first time the one-stop process to set up commercial companies, with quite positive results. In this process, interested parties to set up a company, whether personal or capital, came to a point and concluded both the establishment of the legal person and the application of the tax register. But, it was going that far. The introduction of the one-stop electronic services introduces an innovation from us, which is found in few European countries even today. The entrepreneur concerned will be able to electronically submit all necessary documents in an electronic form and within one day he will have completed the establishment of his company, having legal status, a company VDU, a taxisnet key and having completed his subscription to the insurance funds, with a single act. This will help to improve the functioning of the market, to remove undue barriers to competition, but also to reduce administrative burdens, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. Of particular importance is that time is saved, but also money for professionals, as they are exempted from the requirement of a notarial fee, while 70% of the cost of participation is reduced. In addition, this money will be paid directly to the Central Union of Chambers and will be identified in return for the improvement of GEMI services alone. They will, in other words, return to professional services again. We note that in the first year of full implementation of the electronic system, the setting-up of a company will be free, while the person concerned is exempted from the deposit of tax information when the company is set up. I move on to the other provisions of the bill. A particularly important arrangement is the introduction of the concept of traditional bread and the traditional oven or bakery. This regulation corrects mistakes by the previous governments, which had caused serious income losses by the equation of traditional bread with pre-prepared or frozen bakery preparations, a sample of their negotiation, but also of the development and interests they serve. These provisions provide for the promotion of bread produced in the context of a single procedure of fresh raw materials in a distinct product, contrary to what is currently in force. In addition, the possibility of using the terms ‘traditional baker’, ‘traditional bakery’ and ‘traditional oven’ is established exclusively by the bakers selling among other bakers. They are also amended and supplemented by the provisions of the law on personal companies, hence the possibility of transforming a homogeneous company into a heterogeneous company, thereby satisfying a consistent demand from professionals and creating flexibility in business. Subsequently, for the first time, we have introduced the obligation to state clearly the initial and the new reduced price of the products available for sale, as well as the possibility for each regional unit, taking account of local needs, to set a period of two years for the supply of all the items at its disposal. In addition, issues of operation of the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority are regulated. The third part of the draft law with Articles 25 to 26 introduces legislative improvements in the matters of the Ministry of Rural Development. In short, substantial provisions relating to the classification of lorries up to eight tonnes for beekeepers are being abolished and provisions on the purchase, use and control of biocidal products and plant protection products are being introduced. However, an important provision for us is the abolition of the obligation to lodge a guarantee letter for traders in agricultural products as a precondition for their registration in the Single Register of Traders of Agricultural Products, Trades and Incomings. This provision, moreover, was a constant request from this professional sector. Subsequently, provisions of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport are introduced to facilitate the activity of private car trucks and, finally, a number of provisions relating to the production of cinematographic works and the film industry are abolished. Ladies and gentlemen, because I see - and I am following yesterday's committee - that in the next speech by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, we will hear about the SYRIZA account that is falling apart, and I would like to comment beforehand - on the possibility - that the only record and practice that are being broken is the catastrophe of counter-population, which devaluates the capabilities of our country, but also of our fellow citizens. It is the account of the hatred, interactive and best friends and great businessmen and a few businessmen. It is the account of a Greek corruption and interlocutory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u112	And whispering.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u113	Yeah, and squeeze. The squeeze you have made over the past few years in various interests that have been pushing you and legislating. After all, we have not been applauded and congratulated on the companies that leave Bulgaria. We are here fighting and supporting small entrepreneurship. After all, the account that emerges from now on, which is the only story that emerges with a very hard work, with reforms, with a plan, with strategic orientation and with another thought, serving different interests, the interests of society and of many, is nothing more than what a modern Greece, which claims roles in European property and investment corridors. It is a Greece with modern services, a stable economy, a friendly environment for entrepreneurship. It is a country that serves democracy and social benefit, a country that respects and exploits its human resources, resources and capabilities. It is a Greece of production, labour with a dynamic and development perspective. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In this effort we are all called upon to contribute to the small and the big, away from micro-political purposes, from disasters and divisions, because in this country, in our country and in the people of this country it is worth turning the page, to change capital and to take the place it deserves. I would therefore urge that we vote in favour of today's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much. On the subject raised by Mr Loverdos, it is very reasonable when an issue is raised, the President or President of the House invoked the legal arguments to be objective as far as possible. The defendant, therefore - says Rule 67, in accordance with the preceding paragraphs, incidentally - must identify it within two minutes of the hour and support it in a specific provision of the Rules of Procedure. That's clear. So when I gave Mrs Gara the floor, I just wanted to speak with the Legal Service of the House. I had no intention of having an interactive debate with anyone who raises an issue if I am not informed about the Rules of Procedure and - if you like - legal matters which I do not know why I am not a legal person. I therefore believe that this matter has been closed because the above draft law was characterised by the Government as urgent, the committee accepted by a majority as urgent, in accordance with Rule 109 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. As the committee accepted it by a majority - and the majority of the government has in Parliament - it is certain that the House will have the same effect as the committee. That is why the urgency has never been overturned by a plenary decision since the Greek Parliament exists. So how can the majority be overturned, after she has accepted it? So there is no point in putting the decided matter to the vote. There is therefore no question of discussing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Loverdo, please, on what subject do you want to talk about? Not on the same, I guess.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u117	The answer you gave me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u118	I'm not giving you an answer. I answer the whole House. I don't give a personal answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u119	I raised a matter as a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u120	No, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u121	My view and the proposal of the Democratic Reconciliation was based on Article 109, paragraph 5. And you gave an answer. You could have said from the beginning of the sitting 'I reserve my answer to consult...'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u122	It's self-evident what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u123	You didn't say a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u124	What can I say? The self-evident thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u125	You did not note, however, that I made a special reference which has not been dealt with by a negative decision of the Standing Committee. I said that I distinguish between two provisions of the draft law - and a third that was withdrawn - which have no urgency at all. The first is the GPS in tankers - which is now about open-ended smuggling - and the second is about the question of contracts which have not been placed in the relevant register, so they are not legal and are retrospective, which our rapporteur has asked us to submit and what they are and what they are. I have spoken on these issues, Mr President, and I have said that this House will take a decision as a sovereign Parliament. Please look at this with respect for your democracy. It is not possible for the National Representation to carry out specific interests as a dealer. However, these are not urgent in nature, as we do, Mr President, whatever view we may see. I refer to the majority Members, who rightly say that they also shape the choice of the plenary, as well as of the committees. I would therefore ask Members and I ask them to say that is the issue of the optional positioning of GPS in the emergency tankers an urgent matter? Is the ex post legalisation of invalid contracts an urgency? Well, let's say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u126	You are not asking, in other words, to declassify the bill as an emergency, but a part of the bill. SYRIZA's rapporteur has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say to the honourable Member, Mr Loverdo, that he has taken back the heaviest phrase he has used earlier, about 'bugs' of interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u128	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u129	You'll get that phrase back, Mr. Loverdo. As for the provision, I would advise you at the time you are dealing with in order to serve the interests of all the previous governments, but even now, when you are undermining our own effort, at last read a draft law from the beginning to the end, because the issue of setting up the GPS is only about who will bear the costs. Why don't you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u130	Why don't you just...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Constantinople, you were in the committee yesterday. We explained to you in committee and you did not want to understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u132	Insufficient explanations! Tobacco prefix.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u133	The Democratic Alliance, to come out of its political dead ends, creates a show for no reason, without reason, in order to show that it is allegedly disagreeing. We don't consent. Mr Loverdos had to, since he is much more experienced parliamentarians and I am much younger than him, see that he is not even given the procedure. If he wants to discuss urgency within this House, we can proceed to this process. The point is, however, that what he does does does, he does it because he wants to create impressions in the pan-Hellenic, which are not there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u134	That's why you're a drug dealer. That is why you are 'dangers'. Organized lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u135	Please! I think the majority view is given.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u136	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u137	We are not planning to put separate articles in the urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u138	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Stavura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion, as we have said in committee, recommends a streak of unrelated provisions, as demonstrated in the second chapter, without internal cohesion and consistency. That is why the government has not drawn up, as usual, a brief explanatory statement covering the whole bill. Obviously the government's aim is to complete, with a long delay, some of the Memorandum obligations. The government is dragging behind to legislate on certain regulations, which are estimated to strengthen entrepreneurship and stimulate the competitiveness of the economy. These arrangements, however, do not know how to apply them, since they were recently rejected, mainly because they were not believed. With this draft law four things emerge: Myths break down and the obous transformations of the government emerge. The election illusions and post-election delusions of the government are shown. The government's improperness and allergy to the implementation of structural changes is confirmed. The government's curiosity and genograms are illustrated. In particular, first of all, in the draft law, as I said, myths collapse and the umbic transformations of the government emerge. We recall that in April 2014 the parliament voted for the famous OECD toolbox. Then SYRIZA fought her a rag. Mr. Tsipras, as chief of the opposition officer, on March 30, 2014, from this Step, had described her as the rope we will hang. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Later, as Prime Minister, by this Stepa, on March 18, 2015, he accused the previous government of intercepting the OECD seal. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same wavelength and the current Minister of Finance, who, on February 10, 2015, from this Step, added that the OECD is here and we will discuss, but we will not discuss the toolbox. Half the draft law writes in for the toolbox. I'm tabling this for the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Today, therefore, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government adopts - the truth is, from what I have heard from the rapporteur, without crying - all the previous OECD toolboxes. Luckily, no crying! And he goes on to a new toolbox that he ordered to the same OECD executives, who worked for the previous toolboxes. What, though, to expect and what to discuss with a government that is distinguished for the unprecedentedly high performance of pirates and constant lies? Secondly, the draft law highlights the election illusions and post-election delusions of the government. The government in the explanatory statement accepts that the institution of the "one-stop Services", which was legislated by the previous governments, he said, "proved its success and established itself in the consciousness of businessmen". And today you're telling us we're against businessmen? It's your suggestion. Does your suggestion say that and you say we're against entrepreneurship? Evidently, the abolition of the existing law and its replacement with the proposed provisions is only for reasons of communication, since the additional positive arrangements are limited, while many anticipated delegated acts, including other arrangements of the draft law, are general and vague and therefore possibly in future problematic. In addition, by other rules, the Government accepts full legislative intervention of 2013 for product markets, even extending the tenders under conditions throughout the year without prior notification. It is obvious that the government has brought down the revolutionary banners, but it has troubled and damaged the country and its economy by spending valuable time. Third point. The draft law confirms the government's improperness and allergies in the implementation of structural changes. Since the current government is currently gathering in full the ropes we would hang, it has committed itself to implementing recommendations from the OECD toolbox, both in the third memorandum, in August 2015, as well as in the update of the memorandum in June 2016. What exactly has the government committed itself to doing and especially when, to see if it believes in structural change? He pledged to further reduce administrative costs through the 'Stage Services' for businesses, which is what we are discussing today. However, the commitment, with the signature of the Prime Minister, was for June 2016. Hold the date. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constituted State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. Hold the date. I am presenting for the Minutes and the supplementary memorandum. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It also undertook to adopt legislation, on the basis of the OECD toolbox recommendations, concerning problems in sectors of the economy. What did I tell you so far? Date of UN designation: 1 June 2016. It has taken us five months since then to reach the end of November, and today we are discussing, in accordance with the urgency procedure - which is why we have, in particular, disagreed with the committee - certain arrangements which are considered to strengthen the competitiveness and entrepreneurship of the economy. It is thus confirmed that the government spends time and potential wealth to understand what is happening in the real world. He has not understood what is happening in the real world. He can't, since he doesn't know what he wants, raise the economy. It does not believe in the structural changes needed to strengthen the environment of private enterprises and does not have a plan for the sustainable development of the economy. I have heard my dear colleague, SYRIZA's rapporteur, say that they have a comprehensive plan. Yes, sir. Let's see it! Is not depositing a national strategic productive reconstruction plan in the country an integrated plan? Apparently not. The Government committed, on the basis of the provisions of the third Memorandum, to having completed this plan for the productive reconstruction of the economy in March 2016. I am tabling a relevant document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's not what happened. Subsequently, in the supplementary memorandum, the preparation of the country's productive reconstruction plan, which should move us all and contribute, was transferred for June 2016. And that's not what happened. It is now switched for 2017. The government does not know nor can it and perhaps it does not want us to form, even too late, the necessary national production reconstruction plan. On the other hand, it is of great importance in adopting measures to increase the taxation of households and businesses. In this, indeed, it has an excellent effect to put taxes on households and businesses. The result of government incoherence? The economy is lower than it was received in early 2015, liquidity has shrinked, market padlocks have multiplyed, business migration has increased and the country is crumbling in global ranking indicators for the competitiveness and facilitatement of the business. I present for the minutes the relevant table that confirms how the country bounces over SYRIZA into its competitiveness. [[At this point the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And the development law you told us, I'm sorry, but maybe we should repeat some numbers. The development law - and you know it, but you do not say it - is literally a drop of liquidity in the government dehydrated real economy, as it provides for aid - listen to the figures of EUR 480 million by 2022 and tax exemptions of 127 million by 2020. In the meantime, however, the government owes the private sector 6 billion from late payments. It owes 6 billion and considers that by the development law of some millions it will solve the question of dehydration of the Greek economy. The cost, therefore, of today's governance for the economy and society is enormous and painful for everyone. Fourthly, the draft law reflects the government's sloppiness and genograms. For example, in August, the government introduced and parliament passed Law 4412/2016 on public works, supplies and services contracts and today, three months later, with the draft law under discussion it introduces seventy-four amendments to this law, seventy-four amendments after a quarter. Developments have, indeed, confirmed the correctness of the criticism we had at the time, as a Dedicated Opposition. In particular, a few days after the law was passed, the contracting authorities of the country found distortions, and the tenders were frozen. It followed, one month later, in September, a decision by the Minister responsible, which essentially recognised that the law could not be implemented and set up committees to implement ministerial decisions. Since then, all contracting authorities and all contracting entities have not been aware of what actually applies. As a result of this is to stop the tender procedures, to have a large number of questions to the relevant Ministry and to be harmed by delays in the public interest. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we have also expressed our disagreement with the committee on discussing the draft law in the form of urgency. However, on its long journey and regardless of the role played by the citizens, the New Democracy has proved to be taking a national responsible attitude. It is not party to the problems of the country and of the citizens. It does not have the logic of 'no' to everything. It's not SYRIZA. After all, SYRIZA has been historically recorded as the owner of this post. Since the summer of 2015, we have stressed from this point of view that we will constantly evaluate the translation of the left memorandum into policies and measures. We will support the positive policies and strategies for the country's progress. The beneficial policies for weak and medium-sized social strata will support them. All the other strategies and policies will not be supported. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm gonna need two minutes. Thank you very much. This is what we are doing as a deserved opposition, with stable ideological coordinates, in the social market economy, with policies that will move towards good combinations of economic efficiency and social justice, with a view to sustainable development, competitiveness, employment and social cohesion. With these criteria we are voting positively on the principle of the draft law. However, we have concerns, objections and objections about specific provisions of the draft law. Some of these were formulated yesterday and led the government to withdraw Article 19. Lessons, rapporteur, about hatred and involvement not with us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u140	To you. Who else?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u141	See Rule 19 that you withdrew, because you brought it to the House. The government brought it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u142	What did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u143	Others, for example, concern the transfer and disposal of mineral oils - Article 15 - in arrangements concerning development law - by the new regulation, Article 19 - in amendments to the matters of the Single Independent Authority for Public Contracts - by the new regulation, Articles 21 and 22 - in the provision to suspension of certain direct award decisions to the KIM, which are in the new regulation Article 24. We will wait for the government's responses to this. However, I would like to raise a few points in this regard. In Article 15, we ask the government to be clear about what it claimed to the committee, namely, that it is not limited to GPS installation and that it remains the mandatory nature, as it was introduced in November 2012. We want to see this oral assurance in writing. Secondly, with regard to Article 21, we disagree, in other words, with two specific provisions. The first provision shall state in paragraph 5 that the secondments and transfers referred to in the preceding subparagraph shall be carried out by way of derogation from any other general or special provision by the sole decision of the Minister for Economy and Development. Yes, sir. But recently, a few days ago, the House passed a law concerning the Single Mobility System in Public Administration and Local Administration, where Article 3(2) provides that independent authorities are involved in the Single Mobility System by means of the proclamation of new administrative and special scientific staff, maintaining the selection procedures provided for in the relevant provisions and, if there are no, the selection procedures for recruitment. Why does that change now? Why wasn't the prediction a few days ago? What happened here and something different is being implemented? It is also stated in the same article that other organic positions of assistant legal advisers may be recommended by a joint decision of the Ministers for Economic Affairs and Finance. Why? We strongly disagree with this provision. With regard to Article 22, there are a number of amendments and legislative improvements to the law in force a few months after it was adopted. Finally, I shall refer to Rule 23. We disagree. Heals, supposedly, the non-publishment of all contracts up to 20,000 euros in KIMIS. Immediately outsourced. The posting of all public contracts over EUR 1,000 has been foreseen for the sake of transparency by the 2011 Act. In this respect, the Commission notes that, in the absence of State aid, the aid measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (now Article 107(1) TFEU) and Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (now Article 107(1) TFEU) do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article The decisions on direct awards by most contracting authorities are normally posted throughout this period, with the effect that KIMHIS has more than one million entries in September 2015. We are therefore asking for this article to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u144	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u145	Finally, I would like to say this. What we are seeing today in the real economy is that households' available income is still shrinking - and in 2017, with the imposition of new tax measures - the business environment is being undermined, the living standards of all citizens fall, and the economy is at a lower point and with weaker dynamics than the government received in January 2015. There is therefore a need for a change in economic policy - it has become necessary - by means of forward implementation of structural changes and a change in budgetary policy towards a gradual reduction in taxation on households and businesses. However, this presupposes new governance with a new political philosophy, a reformist government, which will break the catastrophic, catastrophic spiral, which leads increasingly to the economic tide and social misery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u146	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and four educational attendants from the 7th Gymnasium of Peristeri. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Shahinides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. We really have great moments of democracy, and I think it is advisable that I should inform the House of those who were not in the Committee on Production and Trade yesterday about how the urgency was voted on in committee. Because I am a relatively young Member - I have been a Member for fourteen months - I do not know if this had happened before. The urgent procedure must be put to the vote within the committee, not the groups, but the groups present. Yesterday the chairman of the committee, because he saw that there are very few SYRIZA Members, had a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u148	We're talking about another bill, though, now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u149	Another bill was made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u150	Don't get confused! It's another bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u151	I'm not confused at all. I'm just saying it because we're talking about democracy issues. I shall also refer to the bill. I didn't interrupt you when you spoke. So the committee chairman interrupted and invited the Members who were sleeping. The parliamentarians came unmatched, the MPs came with the tsibella in the eye, so that they could vote for the urgency.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u152	Another bill was made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u153	You're right. I know. You won't fix me all the time. I know, I just talked about democracy issues. With regard to this draft law - to mention this - yesterday we had the withdrawal of Article 19, as has been said before by the rapporteur of the New Democracy. Indeed, he was the first to report, but this is about the order of placement. Afterwards, they were forced to withdraw Article 19, because, although the Minister refused it for some time, this regulation was photographic and related to a specific businessman from Crete, which they understood and withdrew at the right time. This draft law refers to the simplification of business procedures. We from Golden Dawn look forward very much to having a draft law on continuing the operation of existing small and medium-sized enterprises. We have repeatedly said that the use of the OECD toolbox destroys the primary sector, destroys small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why, at the outset, we were in favour of voting against this draft law. I'd say it's a little ironic. What business do they recommend? The companies set up, at least as far as northern Greece is concerned, are in the neighbouring countries. Parts of the fact that too many companies have been closed down, many of the existing companies have moved - which we have repeatedly mentioned - to the neighbouring countries. That's not all growth! As far as this draft law and Article 10 is concerned, there is also a reference to chambers. Within a short period of time, following the elections in chambers of commerce, another draft law will come here in Parliament, which will be relevant to the Chambers. It will be the case 'Kallistan'. There will be a merger, there will be a abolition of chambers of commerce. Of the fifty-nine who exist, forty-one will stop running and eighteen stay. Especially in northern Greece will only be four. Eastern Macedonia and Thrace will have a chamber of commerce, as will central Macedonia, except Thessaloniki. The remaining six counties will have a chamber of commerce. Western Greece will have a chamber of commerce. That is the only development they do not bring, ladies and gentlemen. Consider that whatever struggle has taken place in recent years to achieve decentralisation, with the legislation of today's coexistence, but also of its predecessors, is being created. You are abrogating and merging services, which surely cannot help growth. We have the following points to make. This draft law is another Memorandum of Understanding, under the well-known urgency procedure, because of course the lenders, whom SYRIZA once called "tococults" and today calls them "institutions". Without substantial processing, without dialogue, you are simply bringing us bills, just to present to the Eurogroup on 5 December that you have done something. For the first time in this draft law, the possibility of setting up a distance business is foreseen. The debtor, by electronic filling a series of fields, will receive the establishment of his or her business in real time without the intervention of a natural person. All documents constituting a condition for the legal status of a company, the approved statutes and the communication of recommendation shall be electronically attributed to the person concerned, in accordance with the fully electronicised application and control procedure. Thus, the time of recommendation is limited only to the time required by the debtor to complete the relevant fields. The Single Cost of Business Recommendation is set at 30% of the amount in force for the recommendation before the physics, and the pre-checked name paradox is removed. A free recommendation is also available for the first year of application. This creates conditions for attracting more potential debtors to the new electronic service. The founders' tax information is being abolished at the stage of the recommendation, which really makes us a surprise. Why would tax information be abolished? Should we not know whether it is 'clean' or 'broken' the money that one wants to invest and open up a new business? Why is tax information abolished here? In contrast, if anyone wants to make a donation, he needs tax information. Isn't that absurd, Minister? The administrative burden of the procedure for granting this document is not justified. In particular, this requirement is described as a distinct step from the World Bank's Doing Business Report for 2016. This change is expected to reduce the process of recommendation by only one day. There is also provision for taxisnet key performance at the time of recommendation. The interested parties will therefore not need to address the relevant WTO after the procedure has been completed. The same applies to registration as an insurance institution. Yesterday at the hearing of the bodies concerned with Article 18, we were informed by the representatives of the federation of bread makers. I have some doubts about whether we should vote in favour or against. But by listening to the representative of Attica bakers, the question was resolved because, under Article 18, the concept of 'traditional bread' and the terms 'traditional bakery', 'traditional oven' by the bakers who sell, among other things, this type of bread, is introduced. In an older draft law, which we had voted against, everyone was given the opportunity to market bread. This draft law merely mentions the terms ‘traditional bread’, ‘traditional oven’, etc., which will be used by those who are bakers and make bread and market it, but in practice, apart from the reference to traditional bread, anyone, whether they are bakers or not, will be able to market. It should be stressed that the issue is the protection of the Greek baker and the neighborhood oven. Indeed, in contact with several bakers in my area, I found that they are contrary to this draft law, because they are not guaranteed their profession. We would even suggest banning the sale of bread in large store chains and in large supermarkets. A traditional profession must be protected in every way, and it must be retained. As far as Article 19 is concerned, we said yesterday that it was a good thing to withdraw this article. With regard to Article 33, which concerns pharmacy, it repeals the possibility of extending a pharmacy licence from an licensed pharmacist, which has completed the sixty-fifth year of age or thirty-five years of service for seven years and has a child studying in Pharmacy. The same applies to the inherited pharmacies. Legal persons may also obtain a licence for the wholesale of medicinal products without the shareholders or members of the management being pharmaceuticals. These are all provisions that, in the context of allegedly applying recommendations from the OECD toolbox, degrade the role of the Greek pharmacist and the neighborhood pharmacy and open the way to multinational companies. As we have said from the outset and in all our positions, the Golden Dawn is voting against at first and we will be placed in the articles in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, too. Mr Constantinople, a special speaker of the PASOK - DIMAR, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I could begin by speaking of the great soul of the Prime Minister, who was a man like Mr Milios, who called him Bonaparte, put him at the Athens Festival. That would be a great soul, but that's not it. The Prime Minister is now aware of the weakness of SYRIZA officials for political power and chair and uses it. That is why Mr Milios - who is ashamed of everything he said - at the Athens Festival, dropped stone behind him, forgot everything and went along with Mr Tsipras! Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to the bill. Yesterday, all parties raised three issues which had nothing to do with urgency: the first issue of Article 19 on counterfeiting, the second issue on Article 24 on public procurement and, thirdly, on oil, GPS, and so on. The Minister himself, who stated that the provision for Article 19 is not photographic, after five minutes he withdrew it. He had said five minutes ago that there's no matter what, and then he withdrew it. In fact, he said he did it because there is also a willingness for a party to vote. After a while the New Democracy voted 'yes' in the first place. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, because the events in the PSE are very recent, I would remind you that at that time you charged us with underground routes and underground agreements. We will not do this, we will not talk about underground routes and underground agreements. If you want to make the great New Democracy party - SYRIZA, it's your issue and go ahead with it. The second issue was public procurement. We told the Minister it wasn't about his Greeks, but what he's willing to sign. The new government, most importantly, is that it is willing to sign everything. We tell you, as a teacher who came a few days ago, while you know that the government will not have a long time and you did it for a party and patriotic duty, I would say, what are you doing with Article 24? It provides that the non-insurance in the Central Electronic Register of Public Contracts of a decision directly awarded under Article 118 of Law 4412, until the publication of this Law, does not affect the validity of the contract. We are simply telling you that it can, Minister, be a contract and have become a mistake, but it may also be dozens, hundreds of contracts less than EUR 20,000. So this is where you legalize all invalid contracts. Because under the law, Minister - I am sure you have been informed - any contract that was not uploaded to the Electronic Register was not valid. Why don't you bring us the contracts? Why don't you bring the contracts, see who they are? What are you hiding? Why are you here to cover up the previous people and what they did? Let us go to the second point, where there is also a confusion in the Civic Opposition, the GPS issue and fuels. There are two topics: firstly, the obligation to put the owner's name on fuel vehicles is abolished and, secondly, the placing of GPS with a 'block' that you leave, because of the cost, in the types of fuel. Now let's go, gentlemen of the New Democracy, remember. What were we voting for in 2012? Mr Stakoras said very well, but at least the line of taking all the executives. No more people can say in the morning the executives on radios and more talk about it now. What do you say? It is the CVT 3052, 18 November 2012: ‘All private and public tankers carrying petroleum products as defined in Article 3 of Law 3054/2002 must bear that electronic system.’ I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned FEC, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We shall now proceed to the rapporteur's report. Amendment of Law 3054 of the Petroleum Market. "The obligation to take up the cost of placing" is abolished, how do we pass the "brick"...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u156	Cost!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u157	Let go of that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u158	Costs. Do you know what the cost means?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u159	I know very well. You found out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u160	You're welcome, Mr. Katsey.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u161	Colleagues, the cost you have learned too late and you will soon be acquainted with the political cost.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u162	We're talking about a cost. So answer the cost.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u163	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u164	You'll also know the political cost of what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u165	You didn't know what GPS was.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Katsi, please don't interrupt and don't create any issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u167	Look, I understand you. I said to another colleague, no matter how much you believe in politics, you want to defend her, another remodeling cannot be done. The government will fall.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u168	Then why are you yelling every day?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u169	The government will fall! There's no way Mr. Tsipras will get any more. At the festival, he's gonna put an end to this. Let's go now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u170	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u171	Please, Mrs. Gara, don't open another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u172	I'm interested in Mr. Constantinople's opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u173	The obligation of the owner to dispose of biofuels...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u174	Are we going to discuss how the government falls? It's not the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u175	...as the obligation to bear the costs of placing the trade mark is abolished...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u176	Continue, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u177	...trafficking crude oil and petroleum products. So how is smuggling going to take place, ladies and gentlemen? One will declare a type of fuel you'll tell him that he has the ability to not pay it, so he won't find out who will pay it, he will say that "I have this type of fuel, so I don't have GPS" and he'll put what he wants in. Why didn't you hear our encouragement yesterday, which is also the Officerial Response today? We must put all of the tankers, which you write below, up to private - public lorries 'the GPS and the suspension of the name, regardless of whom the cost will be borne'. If that had happened, you wouldn't have said "birds" just, you'd say names in here. Now, however, you cannot talk about these issues. Minister, as regards the fact that all this is happening together, you who are only one day Minister are coming and bringing all these arrangements! Ladies and gentlemen, as I said to the Minister yesterday - because he has been away for many years, I will tell him today - about reforms and GEMH, facilitating entrepreneurship and speeding up administrative procedures, it was PASOK that put them first in 2010. Then, in a few months, we created the General Commercial Register and brought together many services, such as insurance funds, regional self-government and notaries. This is what reversed the country's downward trend in global competitiveness indicators. Let's all remember. But we didn't stop there. The culmination of our policy was Law 4072/2012, which is part of it, because it abolished the compulsory publication of balance sheets in the newspapers, reducing businesses with tens of millions of euros. And that's where IKE was institutionalised.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u178	And closing hundreds of newspapers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u179	If you consider that, you have to shut down the GAM. As far as I see it, however, the 'one-stop Service' on GEMI is concerned, rapporteur. You need to know there's all the time in this. It's okay. I understand. Minister, tell us, since you're in charge, when will you bring the law for the chambers, so we can see what responsibilities you'll give? So the "one-Stop Service" is not the first time it works electronically, as you say. It was working! As for the procedure you say someone will do it all at home, the computerized system will have to recheck it and confirm it closely, Minister. I asked you yesterday and I hope in your speech today that you will answer: What is this time and how much will a professional, a citizen, need from the first step to the last? But there are interesting and positive steps, which we said yesterday. One is the freedom to choose, without geographical limitation, a service of a notary. This is very important and it is positive. I have not, however, heard anyone say anything from the Chamber - and we said it yesterday - or your proposal, rapporteur, who, as you say, believe in small and medium-sized enterprises, about going to the chambers with a sum of the paradox that is given and not to the state-owned corps. Do you support this, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA, of the New Democracy, of the other parties? We support it and ask the Minister for 50% of this paradox to go to the chambers and to GEMH, in order to support the chambers in practice and financially. Will you do it? I hope that the SYRIZA rapporteur will support this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u180	But all of GEMI's going. He's in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u181	Ask the Minister. But there is one issue. The supervision of legal formality remains in the addresses of public limited companies in regional selfgovernment. Minister, this bill does nothing to stop bureaucracy and help professionals. In order to be absolutely honest, the bill also does not bring any overthrow where the company needs it most: in its operation and in its closure. This is a very big issue. Minister, for the first time yesterday you have listened to the employees of the CFO. You have been told about the adequacy that prevails, about party choices among the workers. In fact, there is from 9-11-2016 a complaint about the abolition of the head of economic and administrative services, which is a party involvement of SYRIZA. You said you didn't know that. I'm the one who testifies today. [[At this point the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As a university professor, apart from all that bores you, it's that you met Mr. Varoufakis at Mr. Tsipras, I hope in the rest there is dignity, knowing the sovereignty, see the workers and change the data. And I conclude with this, ladies and gentlemen, because I have not heard of the farmers and the abolition of the register of farmers. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u182	The register of farmers shall not be abolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u183	In Article 27, how will they be protected...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u184	You didn't read the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u185	Don't read it all. You read systolic, and you don't get it. There's another dialect now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u186	Please, Mr. Constantinople, don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u187	The trade register of agricultural products...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u188	They'll listen to us farmers and they'll understand it. How will farmers be protected?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u189	Mrs. Gara, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u190	But he's misinforming the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u191	But if we misinform them, you'll let them know right and understand. It's not a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u192	Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u193	How will farmers be protected against traders who are not consistent with producers? So how will they be protected from delays - let us put it yesterday, Minister - in the payment of agricultural products? How will farmers now know who the poor payers are and how they will be expelled from the agricultural trade system? Ultimately, SYRIZA and the SYRIZA government have a weakness: it hits the weakest. We, Minister, as a Democratic Independent, will decide whether or not to vote on the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u194	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the 'State of Democracy' training programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, seventeen students and their students and two educational attendants from the 19th Municipal School of Nea Ionia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Synthrakis, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. This draft law, tabled by the government under the urgency procedure, implements the common strategy of the European Union, the capital, the government itself and the other parts of the Euro-mono street, which it appeared to be in absolute agreement and alignment. This draft law implements - despite any individual disagreements, which in essence come to cover the agreement in the common strategy which, in relation to the liberalisation of professions and the OECD toolbox - the removal of any obstacles to the functioning of competition and of entrepreneurship, all those provisions and measures that form the framework for facilitating the entry of new business players, always on the basis of the concentration of business pie and profits in a few. Article 19, which spoke very much yesterday in committee, may have been withdrawn. But what does it show? It shows that you are all hypocritically fighting about whether Article 19 to facilitate investment projects, as is Article 24 on direct awards, contains photographic provisions. And all this, at the same time when seizures are made of debts to the public and the insurance funds of the poor people's strata. The government gives rise to sins for counterfeits of businessmen who do not exceed EUR 1 million. The same is true of direct awards. While all of you agree with them, you are now fighting for the details: if it favours and favours the specific photographic device. In any case, however, this shows the anti-grassroots nature of development legislation, with which you all agree. This argument expresses the controversy of a share of the capital of which of them will be fruited with the bulk of the pie and which will benefit from the incentives provided by this legislation. It also proves that neither you nor you can stand up to complexity and opacity, because your criterion is how competition will be manned, the logic of "my life', how through anti-grass laws and provisions will benefit parts of capital against others. Just recently, Mr Minister, speaking to the Greek Forum on entrepreneurship, you said that we would find great scope for business partnerships and investment opportunities for French businesses in our country. The issue is what the people have won or what they will get from this process. He will continue to live in poverty, in debt, in unemployment with underprivileged wages and pensions. You are preparing for the quarantine of privileged benefits, the enhancement of taxation towards the people, the further destruction of the tax-free limit for employed and retired persons. Not only that, but today the government with Mrs Ahtsoglou, the Minister for Labour, has tabled an amendment which you have not spoken about as if not all the others had been tabled, as if nothing had happened, which liberalises the profession of private agencies. It's a disgrace to you. And the Minister is absent, who tabled the amendment and which should have been here, at least to defend her. And it's supposed to be a young man who took over the ministerial court to solve the problems of the unemployed. It brings an amendment to the muds, the first amendment tabled by the Minister, which throws on the fingernails of slave traders a half and a half million unemployed. With the amendment, therefore, you release the profession of slave trade offices, you SYRIZA, who said he would abolish the slave trade offices by law. And not only that, but in the end you keep it, you release it, in other words, permanently and giantize it. And you're supposed to be fighting the battle for collective bargaining right now. Your salary is worth it. You are defending the work jungle, the brokerage and the slave trade circuits. You also give full coverage to the function of slavery, racist groupings of the Golden Dawn. Instead of reintroducing collective labour agreements, instead of permanent and stable work for all that the working people's movement requires, instead of measures to protect the unemployed, you men from slave trade offices, after you have taken care with the previous governments to turn the OAED into a pillar promoting flexible forms of work. Mrs Ahtsioglou, as the new 'Thatseroglou', should she have a trace of esteem and shame, so she should withdraw this amendment. Otherwise, he'll find the workers, the people's movement. Ladies and gentlemen, the OECD toolbox recommendations are nothing new, but they come from old, pre-memorandum memoranda. This, i.e. that the OECD proposals and local monopolies are the same in both the period of high rates of capitalist development and the phase of the deep capitalist crisis, confirms that the anti-grass measures are not a prerequisite for the memorandum, as presented by SYRIZA and other anti-moneyist, but strategic choices to improve the competitiveness of capital. The capitalist competitiveness you are all interested in is hostile to the people. With whatever wrapping you're trying to forge it, it's prevalence of the exploitation of workers, the displacement of small and medium-sized professionals, small and medium-sized enterprises, the self-employed. From this point of view, therefore, we believe that the people must oppose these measures by rejecting any policy mix that leads to the same result from another path. In this draft law in Part One, Articles 1 to 12, the Government is simplifying procedures for the setting-up of commercial undertakings. In fact, the handkerchief moves around business groups around the appropriate, friendly, investment climate, meets general and specific demands of business groups, ensuring time, money and choices for investment sharks, both inside and outside Greece, which are waiting for the creation of this friendly business climate of immunity, so that they can definitely gain over-profit and in this direction modernise the urban state. A State closely committed to the requirements of foreign and domestic capital that will ensure capitalist growth, competitiveness and entrepreneurship, maximise the profitability of business groups. This is why important issues are redefined in the draft law. It reduces supporting and conditionality, places public services at the disposal of individuals, reduces investment guarantee limits, abolishes, alters, overthrows dozens of previous laws regulations, and all procedures and technical details for the cooperation of the ‘one stop’ services will be determined by a joint ministerial decision. By supplementing the propaganda of disorientation the government, while hundreds of thousands of self-employed, small traders, crafters, are faced with the range of unemployment and debts due to your unpopular policies and current and previous ones, it is attempting to convince that a "one-stop Service", electricalised processes, a reduction in the single-cost note will benefit the small and medium-sized enterprise. In practice, however, with these amendments of provisions, it solves problems that large companies, rather than micro-enterprises who, due to the monopolies of the economy and the great increase in budgetary burdens in the current circumstances of the crisis, see their activity being constantly limited, to bankrupt, to close, to remain indebted. The amendments concerning the Independent Public Procurement Authority, in our view, are moving in a more reactive direction. After all, the adoption of the whole institutional framework established by the European Union and the OECD has been preceded by the adoption of the requirements, the requirements of big capital, of course, always with a well-known winding-up of measures to prevent corruption. The independent authority undertakes precisely to defend the legislative and regulatory framework, because it plays a role as regulator - employer of competition rules between business groups. All these measures, ladies and gentlemen, no matter how innocent they appear to resolve procedural issues, resolve bureaucracy, lead to a concentration of business pie and profits in a process that shows the door of exit for the self-employed and other weak links. In fact, everything is actually subject to the prospect of a return to capital and its competitiveness. And the tools, of course, have been found by the government. The whole package is ready: the so-called 'development law', the NSRF funds, the Juncker investment package and other public funding instruments. In the second part, in Articles 13-25, it amends old provisions of various laws which remove obstacles to the strengthening of competitiveness, particularly in wholesale trade, in the sectors of trade representatives, in the oil market, in the marketing of products and services, in order to improve the business environment, as it says. It simplifies procedures for converting homogeneous companies into heterogeneous companies, addressing some existing issues in its relationship, but which are an empty vision in the face of the bankruptcy of small and medium-sized enterprises. It promotes the unequal competition of large commercial enterprises vis-à-vis smaller companies, which do not have the same potential. On substance, this is an amendment to an already existing Memorandum Law. It promotes the liberalisation of the profession of commercial representatives, to whom it gives the opportunity to pursue a profession in the country with a licence issued in another country of the European Union or in the European social area. This is an amendment to the Goldstein Directive. It enables bakers to use the term ‘traditional’. After the government has already granted the use of the terminology 'forged' to supermarkets and commercial chains, it is now seeking to gold the pill to traditional self-employed breadmakers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, Mr President, and I shall conclude. In Part Three, in Articles 26-33, amending provisions are introduced, others are abolished, in order to implement the OECD toolbox themselves, in respect of private lorries, film production, the Single Register of Traders of Agricultural Products, with which victims? But it is obvious, with small farmers, small private lorries professionals, pharmacists, cinema workers. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, we are addressing the Communist Party of Greece, the working class, all the poor people's classes, and to tell them when they hear words such as 'competitiveness', 'business', 'friendly investment', 'fair development' and 'hard masses', because they prepare new measures and new slaughtering of working people's rights. That is why the people must find the 'block', they must find the courage to stand up against these anti-government policies of the government, the European Union, the OECD, the big capital. The opportunity is given on December 8th, the great pan-Hellenic strike, which Greece, Athens, all the cities of the country must sink, close the factories and all the places of work and demand rights life. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and three educational sessions from the 7th General School of Nea Smyrni. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are now moving on to the next special speaker, Mr. Amyras, from the river. Please, Mr Amyras, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in this draft law we are discussing ways of simplifying procedures for setting up businesses. At the same time, at the same time, our country is trapped in two large wells. The first is the well reflected by statistical numbers as most of the padlocks, for the first nine months of 2016, by business starts. So more businesses close than they open. Here is something that absolutely must concern us and put it at the forefront of it. The second is that the Greek society, unfortunately, has shown a tolerance against corruption, a social, generalized tolerance to corruption, which is flooding us and drowning us. Let's look at them a little more thoroughly. In 2013, the European Parliament recommended a special committee to address and propose issues relating to organised crime. This committee and its work were carried out by the then MEP, Mr Theodoros Skylakakis. The results of the European Parliament's investigation into corruption in Greece are shocking and, at the same time, appalling. So listen. There are 20 billion euros a year, the small and the great corruption in Greece. The bureaucracy costs the Greek taxpayer, the Greek citizen, every year 14 billion euros. In other words, corruption plus red tape, 35 billion euros, in a bottomless bucket they go away every year from Greek GDP or move so that they do not account for GDP. So we fight windmills when we leave corruption and the elephant with the mammoth walking in the room and we do what we don't see. Minister, international transparency has also issued its annual results on corruption and data in Europe. The first most corrupt country in Europe is Hungary, the second Slovakia and third, unfortunately, Greece. We take the pan-European copper medal in corruption. In order not to go up to the second and first place, Minister, I urge you to change two articles of this draft law. First of all, Article 15 in the provisions on the organisation of the oil market must appear in a clear way that the GPS must be compulsory from the truck ship to the station. The whole chain must be connected to an online input-output system, as we have heard it two million eight hundred forty-six thousand times, and it has not been done so far. Your government told us that 2 billion euros a year will bring to the public funds the fight against fuel smuggling and in the first half of 2016 all and all of us had sixty-three litres of unleaded petrol. It separates more a large car than the customs authorities of the country seized in the first half of 2016. Where's your efficiency? Also, in order not to go up to the first position of corruption, we ask you, Minister, to change or get back Articles 23 and 24 with the most unmandatory posting of direct assignments to KIMIS. We have seen and suffered, fought, transparent and on the Internet all acts of public administration are being posted and we are now suddenly starting to take steps back, retreat? What for? So, in Article 15 and Articles 23 and 24, I tell you now that our vote will be negative, only if you change them, and so they will also have to put GPS, in other words, a geographical locating system, all those who are involved in and form the chain with the link between fuel trafficking, but also change the non-insurance of direct assignments to the information system. So we are talking about ways of simplifying procedures for setting up or setting up undertakings, and I would ask the Minister: Minister, I do not know if you have been informed, of course, by your partners - what will be done with this so-called Arta's Fort, that is, the quarantine bill? He's broken every world record. The quarantine bill's been in consultation for how long, you say? Twelve years. You will tell me what the twelve years are in front of an eternity. However, should the country, government, businessmen who are allowed to do so, what are the procedures and rules for the operation of quarries, mines and mines? This sector, which, I would say very much - and I would say, has been fuelled and unfairly taken over by a portion of the SYRIZA Members, employs twenty-thousand employees, participates in GDP of about seven billion a year, namely with a 3% to 5% of GDP and 70% of its turnover, the turnover, the turnover, the turnover, is derived from exports. Such a first-line industry - because we have a thousand five hundred mines, quarries and mines - should have been at the top of the priority of any government. So I ask you: will you bring a bill to the vote? Why are you two years incubating - and so will you go to twelve in total - this quarantine bill? What are your intentions of strengthening inspectors of mines? And since the draft laws are relevant to both economic activity and the way in which a new company is set up, we would like to ask whether the testing of the conditions for quarrying, mines and mines will be exhausted in a formal bureaucratic audit of supporting documents and ex post facto? Or will quality control be carried out in respect of compliance with the terms and conditions laid down? Because we have particular points, particularly in the field of mining - and not just mining and latitude - because, above all, the health of the environment is linked to it. We're on. The country, therefore, has come in 2016 to fight and temporarily win self-evident. In other words, with Article 18, which amends the relevant paragraph of Law 3526/2007, what is traditional bread, what is the traditional bakery, who is the traditional baker. It's a step forward. We welcome it, too. We conquered it. We can be proud. But now let's go see something else. Minister, I would like you to listen to me on this because I expect an answer. If a lady, a young girl, wants to open up to her father at the Upper Petral, for example, a physicotherapist, can she take leave or not? I'm asking you. And to help us, let me say that p.m.23/1987 tells us that in the areas of pure residence, such as Petralonas, only houses, small-scale hostels, shops, social welfare buildings, primary and secondary schools, sports facilities, religious areas, cultural buildings and care buildings can be allowed. Let me just say it: A dentist in a building in Upper Petra can open up and operate his dentistry. A physicist can do the same? Oh, no! The care buildings are only hospitals and clinics. The physico-therapies, despite the fact that by another law of the Greek state they are classified in terms of their real estate in the health and social welfare units, still remain outside the market. So, my dear Minister, what are you going to do? How are you going to change this anti-citizenship, which is at the expense of the citizen, to the detriment of the citizen, to the detriment of the general social group? I'm waiting for an answer. You have brought us a ministerial amendment under the general number 778 by Mrs Ahtsoglou. There's a trap here and a hole we're going to have to look out for. What does the amendment say? He says if anyone has a job office, he can transfer it to a third person. However, what you do not write to us in the order, despite the fact that the explanatory statement refers to it, is that the assignment will only be allowed if the person who gets the finder's office, that is, the issuer, meets the conditions of the law. However, this provision does not define it. This is a matter. It is a problem for the Ministerial Amendment. In other words, one who fulfils the conditions may obtain permission to set up a job office and immediately thereafter sell it to someone who does not qualify. So the amendment is problematic. We will only vote on it if the Prime Minister redrafts it to the right dimension. We think it is a good thing that after our reaction, of course, you withdrawn Article 19, which in fact gave forgiveness to all these experts who, with fake invoices, took state, national, European subsidies, entered the development laws and then turned through the engagement. You did well to withdraw it. But why did you bring us and what need did it cover, what business and what business? Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the country will want to get out of the tunnel as well as the work and details. I told you that at the same time that we are voting for a simplification of procedures for setting up a business, someone or someone who has a paternity apartment in the Lower Petral can't open a physico-therapist, while his brother or sister can open up a dentistry because there is such an anti-corruption. Is that going to be solved? And one last thing I think I'm going to keep saying it for many weeks. Do something about smuggling fuel! Change Article 23 and 24 that in fact you give them the freedom to continue to be inconsistent with the temptation to be apart from merchants and fuel smugglers. We are voting in favour. We will not vote on the articles that I told you and we expect answers for the ministerial amendment. The rest in the next conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, too. We continue with Mr Lazaridis, a special speaker of the ANELs. Mr. Lazarides, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by tabling and voting for the bill in question, the first cycle of simplification is closed. This is a new legislative framework with provisions that make it more operational, while removing provisions that add to bureaucracy. The purpose of this legislation is to further improve an institution, firstly by introducing electronic business creation and at the same time by making changes and improvements to the already operating "one-stop Services", always with the aim of reducing the time and cost of setting up companies. As to the contents of the bill, it is structured in three parts. The first concerns the provisions to simplify the procedures for setting up the company, the second concerns more specific regulations to help remove the regulatory obstacles to competition and the third concerns provisions relating in particular to amendments and legislative improvements to existing laws. As mentioned yesterday, the current situation, as regards the procedure for the authorisation of undertakings, was based almost exclusively on the prior authorisation procedures and provided for the presentation of a number of supporting documents to the administration, while on-the-spot checks were carried out on the undertakings before their start of operation. The first part, therefore, introduces electronic business creation and changes and improvements are being made to the existing one-stop services, with the aim of reducing company time and cost. As far as the second part is concerned, we have removed regulatory barriers to competition and more specifically it is increased from two to four months in the period available to the company and the partners in order to amend the statutes of a heterorised company in the event of the exit, exclusion or death of the sole co-operative, thereby strengthening the process of taking the relevant business initiative. The terms and conditions for the conversion of a homogeneous company into a heterogeneous company are regulated. In particular, while the entry of the new partner in the capacity of the heterogeneous heterogeneity can be carried out without restriction, the heterogeneity conversion to a heterogeneous heterogeneity follows the procedure envisaged for the conversion of another corporate form into an IORP. For the protection of third parties to be traded with the codified company, the responsibility of the codified partner is maintained, which has been converted into a heterogeneous system for a five-year period. Among other things, Law 3526/2007 is amended, ‘Production and disposal of bakery products and related provisions’, as the concept of traditional bread and the possibility of using the terms ‘traditional bakery’, ‘traditional bakery’ and ‘traditional bakery’ is introduced exclusively for breadmakers who sell, inter alia, bread preparations and bread preparations, this type of bread. Consequently, consumer awareness is ensured, healthy competition between bakers is promoted, in accordance with the relevant recommendations of the Centre for Planning and Economic Research in the context of the OECD's ex post evaluation toolbox 1. The Development Plans Unit is also available to be used. specific procedures for the management of the investment projects under Law 3299/2004 and Law 3908/2011, such as administrative checks on investment projects and the preparation of recommendations for the completion and start of the production operation of the investment projects, in order to allow for a faster processing of the relevant workload to the relevant development law enforcement agencies, so that the planned deadlines and business plans of the enhanced investors can be consistently respected. In addition, according to the recommendations of the JRC, it improves the operating status of commercial stores, in terms of offers and promotional actions, always on the basis of consumer protection, the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector and the prevention of unfair practices. The third part introduces a number of arrangements aimed at developing specific sectors, while other proposed provisions aim to expressly repeal legislation which has become inactive because of the prior abolition of the related or authorised provisions or regulation of the same subject subject by a later provision and therefore it is appropriate to remove them. After all, the fight against pluralism and the systematic classification of the relevant rules contributes decisively to the easier prevalence of the principles of legality and legal certainty and are part of the government's overall effort to improve the daily life of the citizen. Ladies and gentlemen, the difference in relation to the past is that the new framework abolishes all unnecessary documents and reduces the administrative involvement in the start of business. The main innovation it introduces concerns the integration of all the required procedures into an electronic platform, in which the interested party will have direct access and the establishment of a business will only be achieved within one day. In conclusion, we believe that as a whole the draft law will help to improve the functioning of the market, remove unjustified barriers to competition and reduce administrative burdens, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why we support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. We are moving on with the special speaker of the Centroon Association, Mr Georgiadis. Please, Mr Georgiadis, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I too am very pleased. The central principle of the Central Association is to support reforms, because we believe that these are the only ones that can lead us out of the crisis. The place needs deep sections to get away from the sufferings it has suffered in recent years, over the last few decades. However, despite the goodwill that we always pursue and demonstrate, once again a long-expected and well-advertised reform plan, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government chooses to bring it as a rough multi-project, characterised not just bad but unacceptable. In addition to simplifying procedures for setting up enterprises, i.e. the provisions of the Ministry of Economy and Development, several other ministries have also been arranged with vague invoicing and the need to implement the OECD toolbox. And, in any case, since, for the 'one-stop Services' - Articles 1 to 12 - the government preferred, instead of the fragmentation - to complete some of its articles, to abolish the existing one-stop shop today, and to replace it with a new - complete one, as it says - a piece of legislation, I ask: Why has it not done the same thing with the other articles, from 13 to 35, but has, on the contrary, preferred the method of hundreds of amendments and corrections? The answer is simple: Apparently why every minister, who remembered, wanted to put it in this bill. Scorch-rooted arrangements and provisions, supposedly OECD tools, which are certain to have come for discussion and for a vote at least two to three weeks earlier, because very simply the OECD toolbox has been known for months, and the consultation on the first part of the draft law was completed on 5 October. Finally, the ministers must have been persuaded by the leading economist of the international organisation, Mr. Shin Ennis, who recently stated in Athens that "With the OECD recipe Greece will stand out in areas that make a difference". So he assures us that we have nothing but to wait a little while and our suffering is over. The three hundred and sixty-five recommendations for reform, which includes this famous toolbox and which, as has been said, will bring a profit of EUR 414 million per year, was what we need to expand the Greek economy and come to growth. We read in the press that, in order for these recommendations to be implemented, fifteen researchers and managers from five Ministries cooperated and there were a hundred and twenty meetings with thirty - four bodies, and a thousand two hundred ninety legislation were evaluated. Now, of course, it has not been explained how, for example, film producers, truck drivers or pharmacists have brought the crisis, prevented growth and business so many years and banning investment. However, we all know that it is not our fellow citizens or other sectors who have been responsible for the worsening of the situation in the past twenty months. It is simply because entrepreneurship and investment on the one hand and the environment SYRIZA - ANEL on the other are conflicting procedures. The two concepts are incompatible and simply cannot coexist. With SYRIZA in the government there are no investors and there are no buyers unless we sell silver as much as they do. With SYRIZA there is no program, there is no liquidity, there is only capital control and ejection of red loans. In any case, it is good to set up new companies in one day, but also all the other nice that you bring us into this bill. However, will measures be taken for existing companies, which close by tens every day, at last? In addition, no reasonable man, Greek or foreign, can trust an foreign and weak government whose ministers cancel even the minimal investment decisions of the Prime Minister himself. No major investor can trust a government that changes every month up the tax rates and plays with VAT. In these circumstances, ladies and gentlemen, who can plan their investment needs and calculate the return on its investment from three years ago, even in three years' time? And if this OECD method with researchers yields so much, why, gentlemen of the Government, did you not apply it to the drafting of Law 4412 which was just passed in August? I ask why you are now coming under Article 23 of this draft law to make seventy-four - I repeat, seventy-four - amendments to a law that was adopted just three months ago. The most unlikely of all is that this law, n.4412, on public procurement, concerned an adaptation to a European directive, that is, a blindman. And yet, your executives managed to make at least seventy-four mistakes in copying without even having the emoluments to declare resignation or at least have not done so so far. That is to say, our re-engagement with the August Act has already cost us, for at least this year, the benefits of the OECD toolbox. I am now calling on every Greek citizen who is following us, looking for and reading Article 23 of the current draft law and comparing it to the corresponding text of the report to admire the way the SYRIZA - ANEL Government governs. The word 'dream' is not enough, gentlemen. A little respect in Parliament and a humble apologies would not hurt anyone. We now go to some additional remarks. I cannot accept and not welcome a series of necessary innovations, such as: Consolidating all the procedures required on an electronic platform in which the interested party will have direct access. Let's see it and not believe it! We're waiting for it to be implemented. The establishment of an enterprise that will not require more than one day. This is going to be a development for Greece! Today on average, thirty-eight days are needed, as has been said by the relevant Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u202	Employees. So, two months!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u203	That's right. It's going a lot longer. The existence of a platform which is linked to both the 'TAXIS' and the insurance funds and which can be provided - perhaps always - and all the necessary documents. The abolition of the requirement of the notarial document. The reduction in business time in the transactions with the State and the further electronicisation of the procedures was also a request from the country's productive and collective bodies, in order to facilitate healthy entrepreneurship and competitiveness. Surely this bill would have been more comprehensive if you progressed further and provided for simplifications in the procedures for the entire life cycle of an undertaking, namely, beyond the recommendation, to include both its operation and its termination. We know that, for an operational unit, it is not just the first steps but also the rest of its life in general. The bureaucracy is known to be caradic everywhere and always. So, for example, if a statute amendment is subsequently required, it is very likely that we will return to the manual procedure and visit the relevant public services. In other words, it may have been more sensible - and it is a proposal from us to think - to include changes in the seat or name of the company, changes in the share capital, changes of purpose, and to simplify procedures for individual companies. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now being called upon to adopt a law simplifying the procedures for setting up a company, which goes without saying should have been passed for years, not to say decades. Because opening a business right now in Greece is a sport of Hercules. Polynomialism, the endless bureaucratic system and some corrupt state officials have made our country a third world in relation to entrepreneurship. And at this point I am literally emphatically involved. Documented, with concrete elements, we are the last country on the European continent in the index of economic freedom, following Russia, Belarus and Ukraine. At the same time, we are in position 138 of the world between Bangladesh and Mozambique. The economic freedom index is the most reliable measure - you all know it - for entrepreneurship and investment in a country. It includes many factors considered by the business or investor concerned to be able to make an investment in any country in the world. In all these factors, we are too low. I am tabling for the Minutes and related tables with these statistics. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And to prevent you, it is not just the memorials, ladies and gentlemen. The memorials are the result of our condemnation and not its cause. To reach the memorials, decades of uncontrolled lending and waste of public money have passed on to all governments. Nevertheless, because the draft law, at least in Part I, contains provisions for at least partial elimination of bureaucracy in dealing with entrepreneurship, which is something for which we have been struggling for years, we will support and vote for and reserve some articles on the vote in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, too. The Minister, Mr. Papadimitriou, has the floor. Under the Rules of Procedure you have thirteen minutes, but you will be given more time, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u205	Thank you very much, Mr President. I should like to say from the outset that it is a great honour, as a Greek of the diaspora, to address the Greek Parliament, even under the present, admittedly, very difficult circumstances. Before I begin my introduction, I would like to put in the Minutes the legislative improvements to the draft law, which concern in particular Articles 21 and 22.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is part of the government's strategy to improve the business environment and strengthen the competitiveness of the Greek economy. It is part of a series of interventions initiated under the Public Procurement and Investment Acts and will be completed by the adoption of the "Stage Services" and the licensing of enterprises. The draft law can be distinguished in five sections: firstly, the simplification of business creation procedures, secondly, the removal of regulatory barriers to competition, in the context of OECD toolbox III, thirdly, the implementation of JEP recommendations following an assessment of selected toolbox I reforms, which is an assessment by the Government and was carried out for the first time, fourthly, the regulation of public procurement and, fifthly, the regulation of issues related to development law. It follows from this summary description that the entire bill concerns the improvement of the business environment and the strengthening of the competitiveness of the Greek economy. Therefore, despite the inclusion of provisions implementing actions under the second evaluation, which also justifies the urgency of the procedure, fragmentary arrangements are avoided. The main object of the bill, which we are tabling today, is to further simplify the procedures for setting up companies by means of the "one-stop Services". We believe that the minimisation of the administrative burden faced by an undertaking at the stage of its establishment is a basic prerequisite for the smooth start of its operation and for the rapid development of its operations. At the same time, this process is often the first contact of new entrepreneurs with the public administration and the wider institutional framework governing the establishment of companies. It is therefore necessary to prove to those who are starting such an effort that the state is next to them as a supporter and not to them as a personal bureaucracy. The implementation of our design, which was accepted by the institutions in June 2016, will be based on the existing "One Stasis Services", i.e. chambers, personal and private capital companies and notaries. The operation of these services has been estimated positively over the past six years. However, there is considerable room for improvement at two levels: firstly, the electronicisation of the procedures for setting up and, secondly, the widening of the responsibilities of the 'one-stop Services' so as to reduce the number of public services to which an undertaking must address. These needs also emerged from the public consultation organized by the Ministry of Economy and Development in April 2016, on the matter of measuring the satisfaction of the users of the "one-stop Services". For the first time, the recipients of a public service have had the opportunity to express their views directly and organised on procedures directly affecting them before the draft law was drawn up. We therefore consider that the reform we are proposing today significantly reflects the perceptions of modern and healthy entrepreneurship. To this end, a fully electronic business creation procedure is being introduced. Interested parties will submit all necessary supporting documents electronically and will confirm the establishment of their company via the Internet. This process will not only be less time-consuming but also more affordable. The Costs of Recommendation will be reduced by 70%, while in the first year of operation of the online platform, which will be set up for this purpose, this service will be available free of charge. In addition, the platform will set up standard statutes through which the use of a notarial document to establish a limited company or company will become optional. This is only possible in the electronic setting-up process and in so far as the founders concerned will use only and without any derogation these standards of statutes, which will be provided for in a ministerial decision and which will be legally presumed. This ensures consistency with Community law, which requires a public document for the establishment of capital companies and the necessary legal certainty. This creates the conditions for a significant reduction in the cost of setting up these legal forms. Revenue from the electronic establishment of companies will be entered in the State Budget and will be made available to strengthen e-services aimed at entrepreneurship. Regarding the strengthening of the responsibilities of the ‘Stage Services’, this draft law provides for the granting of ‘TAXIS’ keys to the newly established companies, as well as the processing of the process of registering the founders - where required - to the single social security institution. These arrangements accelerate the full operation of an undertaking without requiring a course of submission of supporting documents to different public services. Therefore, the cost of setting up a company is reduced not only because in the electronic process the fees will be lower, but also thanks to the fewer working hours required to carry out these procedures after being assigned to the ‘one-stop Services’. The innovations mentioned above require extensive legislative intervention, which justifies our choice to replace Law 3853/2010 by new law. The implementation of the law will be based on our cooperation with the relevant ministries, notably the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour. Our aim is for the Ministerial Decisions, which will set out the technical details necessary for the interconnection of information systems and the functional specifications of the “one Stasis Service”, taking into account the specific provisions for access to the Disabled Persons Platform, to be issued within two months of the publication of the Act, so that the online recommendation platform can be piloted within March 2017. The strict timetable, which has been set, has been our choice and is justified by the urgent needs of this reform. The second part of the bill concerns the implementation of recommendations from the Centre for Economic Research and Planning, which recently completed an evaluation study on the implementation of OECD toolbox I in the areas of discounts and offers and the operation of bakerys. This study, in accordance with the July 2015 Agreement, examined some of the Memorandum liabilities that had been committed by previous governments in the light of the principles of good legislature and scientific analysis, which has been the case for the first time since 2010. The most important regulation in this bill, as a result of this study, concerns the terms 'traditional bread', 'traditional bakery' and 'traditional oven'. The acceptance of the use of the term 'bakery' by those undertakings selling bread based on pre-cooked or frozen dough, the so-called 'bake off', has had a negative effect both on consumer information and on compliance with the principles of healthy competition. This reality was recognised by the study of the JEP, which led us to the introduction of the terms 'traditional bread', 'traditional bakery' and 'traditional oven' in order to achieve three main objectives: Firstly, there should be a clear distinction between the undertakings producing bread of fresh dough in the context of a single procedure. Secondly, we need to create conditions for strengthening the recognizing and commercial value of the Greek bread as part of our national production. Thirdly, to avoid disrupting the operation of "bake off" operations by new arrangements. The existing institutional framework defines fresh bread as a product, but does not contain a definition for the shop that produces it. The proposed wording covers this gap with the introduction of terms, which clearly distinguish the producers of fresh bread, who have the overall curatorial responsibility of the production process, on the other hand strengthens the commercial value of the Greek bread, according to international good practices, such as the use of corresponding conditions under French legislation. In addition, according to the recommendations of the JRC, the operating status of commercial stores is improved with regard to offers and promotional actions, always in the interests of consumer protection, the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector and the prevention of unfair practices. I would also like to stress that this draft law implements a number of OECD recommendations on improving competition in wholesale trade. I will be focusing on the introduction of the possibility of converting homogeneity into heterogeneous companies. This regulation is a constant demand for market operators and especially small and medium-sized enterprises. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] This possibility strengthens the flexibility and adaptability of entrepreneurs, facilitates the expansion of business patterns, while ensuring completely third parties that are traded with a convertible company, as the responsibility of the homogeneous partner, which becomes a heterorised partner, is maintained for five years for those claims that have been created up to the day of conversion by following the rule of limitation of commercial claims. Other arrangements on contractual relations between wholesale companies in fuel and service providers or carriers and on the valuation of the value of processed agri-food products strengthen the contractual freedom of the parties. In particular, in the fuel sector, both the flexibility and the negotiating capabilities of operators are strengthened, especially when they enter into exclusive agreements with wholesale companies. At the same time, existing regulations that ensure traceability of fuels are not affected. I will mention features of the obligation to incorporate a GPS system into the fuel tankers. The GPS system is not repealed. It's not optional. What is changing is that the cost of this system will no longer be necessarily paid by the owner or the leaser of the tanker. I am tabling an analysis of the old draft with this new one, to make it clearer, especially to Mr Loverdos and other colleagues who had questions. [[At this point, the Minister for Economy and Development, Dimitris Papadimitriou, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] These categories of professionals will now have the opportunity to negotiate freely to cover these costs with the wholesale company in which they cooperate. The amendments to development laws are attempting to address more rational issues that concern both public administration and investors. First, the proposed arrangements clarify technical issues relating to eligible costs, items and objections to the aid of the new Development Law 4399/2016, which have been raised since its adoption until the activation of its four-year regimes. At this point we must stress that despite the repeated pitiful forecasts and assurances of counter-population for the non-timely activation of the schemes of the new development law, submissions of investment projects under four schemes have been initiated and investors' interest is very great and very encouraging. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] In particular, fifty investment projects have already been submitted, while about a thousand other fifty are in the process of being submitted. Secondly, on matters of grant payment, it is specified that requests for the payment of the grant relating to investment projects whose decision to complete and start the production operation of the investment was published in the Official Journal of the Government prior to publication of Law No.4399/2016 are not taken into account by the partial payment arrangements. Accordingly, it is not foreseen that the payment of the aid for investment projects carried out, either on islands with increased migratory flows or in areas affected by natural disasters, will be carried out in less overall instalments and shorter periods. Thirdly, the Development Plans Management Unit is able to use specific procedures for managing the investment projects under Law 3299/2004 and Law 3908/2011, such as the administrative audits of investment projects and the preparation of recommendations for the completion and start of the productive operation of the investment projects, so that the relevant workload of the relevant Development Laws can be dealt with more quickly. With this arrangement, in conjunction with the ongoing expansion of the National Registers of Certified Accountants and Auditors, which will be completed next month, we believe that the decongestion of the outstandings of previous development laws will finally be achieved so that the planned deadlines and business plans of the enhanced investors can be consistently respected. In this respect, in order to remedy any doubt, I would like to clarify the following in relation to Article 19: It was implied yesterday in the Standing Committee on Production and Trade by a group of representatives of parties of the Anti-Population Party that this arrangement constitutes a photographic provision, which is completely false. In fact, this is a regulation which restores a single administrative approach to the issue of own participation in the standards of current development n.4399/2016. In fact, as far as I know, the relevant regulatory framework was welcomed by professional bodies in the adoption of the recent development law. It should be noted that this article also provides for the strictening of the institutional framework to prevent the use of virtual invoicing by investment projects operators, which has diligently ignored or obscure a portion of the counter-population. However, given that the vote on this bill is linked to the country's second assessment and effort, which we are doing internationally to resolve the debt and not to micropolitical issues, so we are asking...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u207	Minister, you'll have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u208	In three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u209	No, you don't have three minutes. We've already exceeded Mr. Cremastino's extra time by three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u210	Mr President, this is my first introductory position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u211	All right, all right, show a tolerance, because it's your first appearance in Parliament. Please complete in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. Therefore, because it is called for an irreversible national line, without asterisks, I felt it appropriate to withdraw the article in question, both for its further legislative processing and for the possibility of a more complete dialogue with market operators in the near future. In any case, I must stress that the Ministry's attitude to the completion of the accumulated outstandingities of previous development laws remains unstoppable, far beyond the interests and purposes of political life of the past years. Our will is the new development law to be the main investment tool in the country and to lead to another productive model of fair social development. The bill to continue by saying that arrangements for the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority are also included in order to address issues arising from the recent change in the institutional framework for public procurement and to strengthen the proper functioning of the Authority. Subsequently, it attempts to correct a series of errors which were found to have entered into the successive treatments of Law 4412 and which, for reasons of legal certainty, should be resolved by means of the legislative process, while clarifying interpretative issues that were found to have been born after the adoption of the relevant law. In particular, the non-institutionalisation in the Central electronic register of public procurement contracts comes to cover, in a transitional period, an interpretative void created as a result of the recent change in the legislative framework for public procurement and will be directly covered by a ministerial decision imposing compulsory publication. Finally, in the light of good legislation and legal certainty, as well as the OECD recommendations, the abolition of a number of provisions which have become inactive is not relevant either because of subsequent different legislation or because of a change in the actual conditions imposed and justified by their adoption at the time. In conclusion, we believe that the bill as a whole will help to improve the functioning of the market, remove unfair barriers to competition and reduce administrative burdens, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you very much, especially you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-seven students and students and three of their teachers from the New Eritrea High School. Welcome to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Loverdo, I would ask you to give your position to Mrs Antonopoulou because she is leaving for Bratislava and wants to say about her amendment. It'll take the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u214	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u215	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr President. There is an amendment - an addition to the law entitled 'Simplification of procedures for setting up undertakings, the removal of regulatory barriers to competition and other provisions'. As you know, private works councils are an institution set up in 1998 by Law 2639. In order not to get far, I am going directly to Law 3919/2011, where there is the principle of professional freedom, the abolition of unfair restrictions on access to and exercise of professions, and that is exactly where it says that unjustified restrictions on access to and exercise of professions should be abolished. If someone looks at Law 4052/2012, he will see that Law 4093/2012 comes and brings some changes. For example, it limits four years of operation to two years, etc., so that it can facilitate entrepreneurship and professional freedom. What is this amendment doing now? Paragraph 3 of Article 99 of Law 4052/2012 is repealed. This proposed provision is considered necessary in the context of the application of Law 3919/2011, so that in reality what is changing is that the transfer or transfer of the activity of the private employment office is now free of charge, provided that the conditions laid down in Articles 98 and 102 of Law 4052, which determine the qualifications to be, either the owner or the director, of such an office, are fulfilled and fulfilled. This reduces bureaucracy and meets the obligations of Article 104 of the same law at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u217	So do we. Come on, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u218	Minister, I welcome you from the side of the Democratic Incorporation in the Greek Parliament. I wish you success. And since I have had the opportunity to hear your first speech now in this House, I can tell you that there are too many colleagues, particularly the ministers who were out-parliamentarian, who understood, when they finished their presence at the Ministerial Council and left, that in the end the time they remained in this House and expressed the government here did nothing more than expressing the views of bureaucracy, turning into a porte - parole of the wills and the details of the desires of bureaucracy. I do not say that by chance, I say this because at a point of order that Mr Constantinople has made very persistent and detailed, and which I referred to in my procedural proposal this morning, you replied and I will comment on your reply in the course of my speech. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, in general within two years you have achieved, in the programme of Thessaloniki and the parallel programme of September 2015, 89% of citizens and 79% of your voters are against your policies. That's what polls say. But that is what it says, and the way we walk and the citizens speak to us. We who are politicians with first responsibility only in the years of the crisis, know very well what people say and what they said in 2010, 2012, 2014 and 2016. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, now you understand that it is Mr. Katsugalos and Mr. Tsakalotos to judge people in the squares of imperialism, to eat after a tomato perish in Monastiraki after the performance of their revolutionary duty, the people's trial, that is to say, to undertake to raise their interests, the pursuits, the wishes, the will and the pain of the Greek people. Do you realize how negative it is to influence the world that he hears, what Mr Regling of the ESM said, by the privileged interlocutors of the Greek governments and yours? He said the other day, there is a battle to reach the levels of 2014! Are you aware of the extent to which this proves that you have taken the country back, that the people must make other sacrifices and the same steps, an example of the myth of Sisphos, just to be Mr. Tsipras Prime Minister and you in the ministerial chairs? You continue inaccurate with two features at the level of speech. Demagogy in words, state in practice! The first stats come out. It's a mistake to tell you that you posted employees were discovering. It's a big mistake. Removable employees are useful. It is right, however, to tell you that you have put more than two hundred of the previous ones, increasing their earnings, so that this policy has been imposed by you by the state budget with 146 million. It is also a huge mistake in any draft law to establish new services. Where I have a problem, I answer with the establishment of a new agency. Special secretariats, General Secretariats, General Directorates! This is your daily policy! While you are making an intervention in the insurance sector, for which Mr Katrugalos Katragalos said that you have solved all of them in May and you are bringing an amendment to the transfer, with the permission of creditors, EUR 1 billion, in order to meet the needs of new pensions, with a deadline which, if you do not fulfill it, will lose the money, will go back where they have left, namely debt service. Ladies and gentlemen, three hundred eighty-six thousand beneficiaries of the CSR have eaten in their daily lives the results of your policies. In 2016, a cut of EUR 160 million was made and, for the year that comes in a few weeks, account for EUR 421 million minus the beneficiaries of the CSR. Compensation measures are, like the 2015 programme, sensitive and sensitive Members of the majority! Twenty-two million euros is the compensation. Add the 421 and 160 and remove the 22 of Mrs Fotio's policies. This is your political identity. Let's go see now why this is happening, because you're voting for these, the preachers of the opposite. Do you vote for them because you have a purpose? Do you serve your ideology, principles, dignity? The chairs, you serve. It is a very characteristic example of Mr Milios, who mentioned at the beginning of his speech today, Mr Constantinople. Do you not tell me, Mr Minister of the Levy Foundation, please, what is this amendment you have brought today? Incidentally, you fall upon me, I've been subjected to the line you're supporting. You are bringing an amendment abolishing paragraph 3 of Article 99 of Law No 4052/2012. It was established by that law that private institutes of employment are not assigned to natural or legal persons. When as Minister of Labour I introduced it into the House, his opposition at the time SYRIZA was in the bars. When we set the conditions of operation, saying that they were not bad measures, you considered them unnecessarily important, because the measures are the institutions themselves. Now, what are you saying, under the responsibility of Mr Papadimitriou and all the members of the government? You are now amending the withdrawal of the undertaking, which has been made on the grounds of guarantee, of the assignment to a natural or legal person of these institutes of employment. Do you have a sense of political shame? You think the House doesn't know? Do you think you were born in the last rain, to laugh, colleague, where the hand will be lifted in a little while to what you have denounced? You must come with a sense of shame and repentance here and ask for an apology for the barbarity with which you have dealt with the political speech. "Laugh the baby," some of us used to say before us. Handle of the chair and at every price in every way, without limits, without 'yes' to everything, as this ensures your stay here! We'll call it every time we take the floor. Enemy is philosophicalism, which is not philosophical. People'sism - it proves your works in the most characteristic way and your historical examples, your comparative data of Madour, Chaves, those you worshiped - ultimately turns against the people. It is popular benefactors, to be able to neutralize populism in Greece, and it is also national benefactors. Because it has been seen in recent months that what all our neighbours had in their mouths and souls with aggressive policies for decades and do not make them articles, are now pouring them up. Because they found a weak operator on Greek issues. Minister, we referred to Article 15. There's a problem with GPS in tankers. They were established in 2012 and are not applicable. A while ago, Mrs Jackson, a predecessor of Mr Papadimitriou, had brought the sentences to combat smuggling to an end, and I had told her here, that the increase in penalties is not certain to bring the desired results if it is not accompanied by other policies. Life came to prove that I was right. That's not good enough. Instead of attacking the checks or the means of control, which are necessary, you come today and what do you say? You say - not I, you, the bureaucracy that writes to you and you read it to me - that with the relevant article, Article 15, - listen to colleagues, and you, too - the obligation to bear the costs of placing the trade mark of the holder of the licence for the placing of biofuels or the transporter's trade mark is abolished. That's why? Why is the signal bothering you? ‘The obligation to take over the costs of placing the trade mark, etc.’. The abolition of the obligation means the possibility - in view of the failure to take over the debt - of not having to install this instrument of control. This is a "hole". The mandatory imposition of the measure, the universality of the imposition by special regulation of who will take over the debt, would be the solution. Instead of going to that, you're opening an exception. Opening the exception - the familiars of Greek reality know - overthrow the rule and daily smuggling in the fuel sector is a reality that should have made you worry. We have voted for you the intensification of penalties, saying that it is an ineffective law - a measure. You are now coming and you are reducing the legal conditions for exercising control and tracing smuggling. I still told you about the contracts. What contracts not recorded in the register of public procurement contracts below the amount laid down in your law are those that become valid after the condition of non-legality has been removed? Who are they? Is it all about immigration and refugee issues? Who are they? Do you have anything in mind? Is it, as Mr Constantinople said, an 'an apologies'? Are there too many? What areas do they involve? You're gonna have to see this. And finally...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u219	And close with that, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u220	Yes, I will, Mr. President. The "one-Stop Service" was legislated in 2010. It is one of the many reforms of the Papandreou government. You admit in the rapporteur's report that it worked positively. Why are you replacing all the legislation with a new one? Why this practice? Aren't you worried about what you're changing, taking away some things that are very useful? Why instead of doing this universal abolition, do you go by maintaining some of them? Why, for example, does the new regulations not provide for individual companies to be covered? Why? Here we are a country with small and medium-sized enterprises, with tens of thousands of individual people. Why don't you cover them? Because the scope of the regulation referred to in Articles 1 et seq. does not cover any modifications...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u221	Finish, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u222	...of the companies and all the other stages of their operation? Look, you respond to two draft laws today and tomorrow in need of the titles of the draft laws, not the contents. It also applies to these by the fraudulent method of emergency, which make me call you "barkers". But, Minister, we are aware - because tomorrow we will have a new opportunity to discuss - that other things are the establishment of a company and the authorisation to carry out the function and activity for which it is set up. So tomorrow, we'll talk about the rest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u223	First of all, Mr Minister, because questions are being asked, write them all down, and although it is not provided for by the procedure that the government has chosen to discuss this draft law, despite the opposite view of counter-population, I will give you - since I am in the Chair - five minutes to answer, because explanations can be given and some articles may change the view of colleagues. That's the one. Secondly, we shall proceed as follows: two colleagues will speak, Mr Ursouzidis and Mr Georgiadis, immediately after the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr Papapas, in the order that the Members of Parliament have spoken - and so far two - and then Mr Apostle present here. You see, I saw you, but we're not going to go with ministers all the time, we have to change. Then again, every two colleagues will speak a parliamentary representative so that the sixteen colleagues and the eight parliamentary representatives will go alternately and move quickly. Because it is a specific procedure - it is a restricted procedure - which is why I am also a little tolerant. The world didn't ruin if we were to delay a whole half an hour. I say this, above all, for Members who have only five minutes of time. Mr. Ursuzidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are discussing today a law which should have been a reality in the country for many decades, a law that we hope will overthrow the painful reality experienced by the free traders, the entrepreneurs for many decades, since they have had to tolerate the reluctance, the feasibility and the inadequacy of every bureaucrat and the behaviour of the government's bourgeoisie, forced to trade and swiftly. Of course, the country's political establishment has entered the game of the transaction, since it has thus played a role, the well-known role of accelerating government's ruptured rates, often with benefits other than voters. "In the summer the mind must be in bad weather," the old people said. These are fine letters for the forty years rulers. Today, under extremely difficult circumstances, we have no other way, rather than understanding for ourselves, of ensuring access to activities again to those who know how to attempt. This law, therefore, encourages people who have failed because of the crisis to overcome a number of issues that are currently keeping them out of the production process. I shall mention what I consider to be important, what the market demands, as I understand them. First term. Simplification of procedures. It's about setting up a distance business. The person concerned shall, in real time, undertake the establishment of his or her business without interfering with a natural person. Very good for it to be true, for the Greek reality that we have experienced over the past decades. All documents on the legal status of a number of necessary actions shall be abolished, in particular without interfering with a natural person. This practically means economy in money, time and, obviously, restriction on corruption. The cost of setting up the company is set at 30% of the amount in force for the establishment before the physics of the one-stop service, while the paradox of pre-control and name is removed. Tax information shall also be abolished. Today we all know very well that, due to the consequences of the crisis that has occurred in the country over recent years, many Greek citizens have the possibility - or rather it is not at all self-evident - of accessing tax information or information on the insurance funds. So, then, this mob is overrun and a number of people who know how to attempt is insurmountable, removing this impediment. There is also provision for taxisnet key performance at the time of the establishment. Therefore, interested parties do not need to address the competent DU in the process of ‘one-stop Services’. If the above we manage to combine them with the regulation or freezing of debts to DUA and EVA over a certain period of time and are, at the same time, relieved of the irrational increases that have been imposed on these citizens in recent years, together with ensuring an irresponsible bank account exclusively for the operation of businesses, then I think this will be a very positive step. It is the necessary Treaty for the recovery of business activity. In order to be able, however, the necessary working capital should be provided. To this end, the effort made by the government of that country on 5 December must be achieved so that it can gain access to the funds which, through the banking system, our partners must finally make available to our home country. In conclusion, I should like to make a comment on the government's improper work. In other words, we are accused that while since June 2016 we have had to table the bill in mind, we are putting it four months late in November. Forty years, for these self-evident reasons, when in neighbouring countries such as Bulgaria, Romania, since 2000, what the Greek Parliament is voting on today is the case, what have these people done? Inadequacy is obvious. I am sorry, but there had to be a new one to remove the terms of interlocutory that kept the system in Greece in the current situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, too. The special speaker from New Democracy, Adonis Georgiadis, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u226	First of all, Minister, I too should like to welcome you. I wish a good and successful term. I read the amendment you tabled at the time I entered the House: "The proposed provision is necessary in the context of the application of Law 3919/2011 (A 32) "A principle of professional freedom, abolition of unjustified restrictions on access to and exercise of professions". I also read the provision: ‘Article 99(3) of Law 4052/2012 (A 41)’. Mr. Dritsa, why are you a little older, imagine Adonis Georgiadis and Kostis Hatzidakis brought such a provision here, for the private employment offices, what would SYRIZA and you personally say? That we are the slaves of neoliberalism, that we are the instruments of Shoeble! Do not think that this was not the case in the House, ladies and gentlemen, because I was the Minister of Health, along with Kostis Hatzidakis, when we brought this OECD toolbox to the House. Omega! What we've been through for this toolbox, Minister! You were in America and you didn't live. You were fine there. Mr. Apostle, next door, he's laughing. You can't imagine what was going on in the House about this OECD toolbox, what Mr. Tsipras told us, that we have put the rope that will hang us, we went out, and the pharmacists were shouting that we paid 700,000 of the Greek people to buy the OECD report. Mr. Dritsa, I want to tell you, and you know how much I appreciate you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u227	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no., no., no., no., no., no., no., no.,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u228	Everything that we did not dare do, fearing you who yelled, but also many of our respondents, comes today the government of Alexis Tsipras and votes for it all, to confirm Anelli's saying, "There is this useful Left, which comes and votes for what the Right cannot vote." You know, of course, that. Mr. Apostle, if Anelli knew you, he would love you very much. All that our group could not vote for, you bring it in this bill. Of course we are voting on them, because I want to be honest, and then we wanted to vote on them, but how can we vote when you sent your provocators out of the taverns and flew yoghurts and rocks to the MPs of the consortium then and did all the provocatives in the parades and took the terror down every day on the streets? Now look how nice it's going to be! With a small amendment one - listen to the phrase - extra neoliberal measure, an extra neoliberal measure in an extra neoliberal bill - I am using your own phrase - which you will vote for by the SYRIZA MPs with joy with both your hands and thus this great reform effort and a left sign and signature from the left. Warm congratulations! It is a great gain for the Greek people for the maturation of our society, that you have managed to cut off from all the left-wing ideas of your youth. Of course we also have the laughter today, which is happening with this bill, to be the country's Prime Minister in Havana. That's almost funny. In the Greek Parliament today, you are voting for the OECD toolbox, which is the most neoliberal text that has come to Parliament over the last seven years. What you are voting on here is the most neoliberal text that has been voted on since the first day of the memorandum. It is all those reforms, which had not dared to be made by the earlier governments of the "Germany" and which are coming and made by the Left. At the time that Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras puts the House under the urgency procedure to vote for this and the left-wing fighters, such as Dritsa or Mr Apostolos, will vote for them with their two hands, so the same time he is in Havana to sell a revolution, to tell us that they are in favour of people's revolutions until final victory. I am going beyond the fact that the country and the leader, who went to honour today, did not hold elections for fifty years. Fifty years has not been elected by Cuba. I do not know exactly how it fits your democratic reflexes, to honor a leader who has not taken elections for 50 years. But I understand that these are your ideas and your fantasies, which you somehow want to highlight, because, of course, your OECD toolbox is a little too heavy. Ladies and gentlemen, to close - it is clear that this is a bill in the right direction. The OECD toolbox is a reformist text, which we have supported since the first time, despite the envy and slander and the mud we have received, while populism has been digging all over. Of course the New Democracy is in favour of liberalising our economy, so that we finally have economic progress, because, of course, we will not have economic progress with the economic model of Cuba, which Tsipras has now gone there to worship, but with the economic model of the liberal economy. All right, let him vote for the liberal economy in the House and bow down to Castle. The world isn't broken. But I'm hanging on a more important subject. I see Mr. Demetriadis. Mr. Dimitriadis, here we are MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u229	Under the Rules of Procedure, you know that personal petitions are forbidden.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u230	I'll be right back, Mr. President. I saw one of your interviews, in which you said the TDIDE is privatising, just so that the TIPIJIJIs can get their money. Since the President of the HIDE was Mr Pittsorlas, who became a State Secretary, I would very much like you to explain to me what misery you were referring to - the video exists, I posted it on my twitter, since yesterday he was playing on social media - which TIPEs you insist on, and if you insist on your statement, because you are a member of the Government, that the only reason why the HIDE is privatization is to share with them the TIPEs. In any case, Mr Demetriadis, you must realize now that you are speaking on the channels, for as long as you are still a Member of Parliament, that you are a Member of Parliament and what you are saying, you will not say what you were saying at the café. Left-wing ideas are over with what you are voting on now. Now you're becoming a serious man. You are voting OECD. So leave what you haven't voted on for so many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u231	Finish, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u232	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u233	I would like the floor, Mr President, on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u234	Yeah. Now you see what we're opening? I'm the one who realized. Response doesn't exist. One minute you have the floor to answer, Mr. Demetriades.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u235	Mr Georgiadis, I would ask you first of all when you make a statement about one of your colleagues - me or anyone else - to be informed of what you are saying. Reproduction a trolley specific, which you know very well and which I don't know where you found it or where it comes from.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u236	But I saw the video.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u237	I, in an interview - and we are talking about an interview of mine, obviously on some local channel 15 days ago, because there I talked about the TIADED and it has something to do with PPC - said and cleared our opinion, which is this: the TIADED is a fund, which, by definition, is privatization, with the aim of bringing the money directly to the debt, less the costs of sales. That's what I said. First of all, I didn't report anyone that she's getting money. I've never talked about it. First of all, I don't know how to say it. Please. Secondly, I have made repeated statements. I am telling you, this is what you know very well that I have repeated it on several occasions in Parliament in various contributions. TEAD is your model of development. The superstition is our model of development. This is my location. She's always been.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u238	Congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u239	I would therefore ask you to withdraw on behalf of the staff, because you are simply wrong with me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u240	It wasn't Mr. Georgiadis' intention to offend you. You've given the explanations. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u241	Mr President, I have no objections. He just mentioned what the sites were saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u242	I understand that, Mr. Georgiadis. It's over. You've given the explanations. Nothing is written in the Minutes. Mr. Dimitriadis, you've given your explanations, they've been heard and recorded. Mr. Georgiadis said he accepted your explanations. We're done. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme "Kappostyreia", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, thirty-four students and students and four educational attendants from the New Eritrea High School (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Poppas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr President. I sincerely enjoyed the Vice-President of the New Democracy and Mr Stavoura, who was rapporteur for this bill, who, with the well-known opposition krone of urgent legislation at the moment, did so, you did not, Mr Georgiadis, say that the New Democracy is voting in favour of the bill. In other words, we had today and a confession by the mouth Adonidus to give SYRIZA credit, who votes for the bills that he could not say, as Mr Georgiadis said, to vote on. So what do we have here today? SYRIZA and New Democracy hand - hand, as an old politician and journalist said. This is a bill we're discussing today. And what exactly is it? This is the bill that the President of Parliament also mentioned, the lines of the memorandum. So I wonder if you were government, would you do anything different? Oh, no. You'd vote the same things. But what else would you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u244	We'd lower taxes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u245	I don't have a dialogue with you. I'm just stressing it, so you can learn to listen and not talk all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u246	Mr. Georgiadis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u247	Would you do something different? Oh, no. Perhaps you would bring it up earlier, because your relationship with the foreign factor is well known and your government's experience is multi-annual. The only difference that you would have done is that you would have brought this bill sooner than five to six days before the Eurogroup. This is your only difference with SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder again. What are we talking about today? We are discussing the obligations which are lacking in what the SYRIZA Government likes to say 'agreement', namely the third Memorandum, which, together with the hand, you have voted for New Democracy and SYRIZA and the other Memorandums on 14 August 2015 in a full-night debate and you both voted for it. You are voting today. You are excellent, because you and the opposition so-called neo-democrats are voting in favour of them. So it turns out that you are sister ideologies on the left and right in the eyes of the people. You are the two sides of this Memorandum of Understanding, the Holy Grail of the Eurozone, called the Euro. We admired Mr. Tsipras, the so-called left, to welcome planet Obama, ecstatic and drugged in his armchair and Mr. Mitsotakis standing on the line for an objector with the outgoing American President. More neoliberal twin than Tsipra twin, Mitsotakis doesn't exist. What's going on today when we're talking about the bill, about the conversation we're having? Tsipras is heading to Cuba to mourn and cry on the pile of the Communist dictator Fidel Castro. I really will feed the bones of the real agonist - and I have no problem saying it - Che Guevara, watching Tsipra go to Cuba. Che Guevara left early on the Cuban drama and don't laugh, because you don't know what the story with Che Guevara would have, who was shouting: "Have country." We'll see Tsipra, deposit wreath or flower - I don't know what he'll think - in Che's grave. Yours, the other Cappadakis of the memorandum, Mr. Mitsotakis went to Bulgaria and listen - listen, in statements he rewards all the lombs from Greece that took their businesses to Bulgaria. He said in particular: 'I also had the opportunity to have an extremely substantial and productive debate'. Because there was no discussion with Bulgaria's new president and Russian friend. Mitsotakis ate a door. He asked for a meeting and he threw a door on him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u248	He hadn't yet sworn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u249	So he says Mitsotakis: "I had an excellent, substantial and productive debate with representatives from important Greek enterprises, who are active here in Bulgaria. I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate that the Greek companies that have been active in Bulgaria for many years have been an example of extroversion and entrepreneurship. They are businesses that have escaped the narrow limits of Greece and have decided to invest outside Greece, thus increasing their own potential". Rejoice him, Mr. and gentlemen of the New Democracy! Ladies and gentlemen, the country is falling apart under the responsibility of the rotten and corrupt political establishment, which is called the 'constitutional arch'. It is at great national risk, not only because of the expectation of millions - three million people said Erdogan - invaders on Turkey's coast, but also at risk of partitioning. That's not an exaggeration. Borders are not fixed, they keep changing if you read history. Black clouds have densed the Greek sky and Thrace and the Aegean islands, and we expect the difficult ones. Tsipras, however, also Mitsotakis go hand in hand! They, Greeks, have sent you to rule you, and they are now cursed by you people, always easily and always betrayed! With regard to the bill itself, Minister, I have to say: I take the opportunity based on the title of the bill, to reveal today, Minister, a great scandal that is taking place in Greece and the Greek market, which is the orgy of the cartels of multinational companies. These companies sell their products at the highest prices in Europe! We are, ladies and gentlemen, a country which has been defeated so far in the economic war that Europe, the International Monetary Fund and the major transatlantic bosses have declared us. We are a country, which is in great economic crisis as well as in a crisis of values, with the responsibility of the Postpopulation parties again and the Greek consumer, the Greek people now, the unemployed, that is to say, who is supported by a piece of the poor pension of grandparents and grandparents, the family leader who has daily anxiety to offer food to his children, who have the stress to offer daily to his children, is a charm to the applause of any carcedaurus, a predator of the multinationals and their representatives here. To be specific, an Independent Authority, called the Competition Protection Authority and its President, located in New Democracy, has been established, is the old Areopagite, Mr. Kyritsakis. I will not ask who controls auditors, because it is essential, but the question of whether this principle is for the good of the Greek people, whether it is at the side of the people or at the side of the multinationals. Or is that the principle - and is it the unavoidable one - which is the best tool for the enrichment of multinationals, and not just? A SYRIZA official told me: "But, Mr Pappa, they are protected from Europe." I shall therefore put directly to you, Minister, who has just taken up your duties, but you know that the state has continued in its Memorandum obligations, as Samaras and Tsipras have confessed, to ask you some questions, in order to trigger you to the question raised by the People's Association - Golden Dawn, which is not the protection of the consumer but the protection of the trader. For example, I am going to refer to the NESTLE company, this large multinational company which has a larger turnover than the Greek budget, which has been condemned by a committee decision. Obviously, they didn't find them, or so they had to be knocked out. So while it has been convicted, it continues and relapses, because the Competition Committee is protecting it everywhere. The committee has not done any control over NESTLE for its compliance for seven years. It takes on false answers and gets a simple questionnaire written by the company and beyond. Minister, do you have the guts, or are you just content with the joy of ministering? I invite you to put the finger on the type of sunshine. Also something that concerns the whole House because you voted for it, others in favour or in no way matters, but it was discussed here in February 2016, when it had come back to the issue with the Competition Committee, is the issue with the car of Vice-President of the Commission, Mr. Luke, because of the incompatibility of having a wife as a MP. Despite the majority decision in favour of the removal of Mr Lucas, neither was the Minister responsible - whose position you took - Mr Stathakis did something, nor was Mr Lucas himself removed for reasons of irritation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Show your tolerance for a while, Mr President. As I am aware, the work of the committee is still bored with its presence. It continues to solve and bind Luke to the committee, and so gives legal backing, to make any decisions - convicted or not - null and void in its composition. Do you know about the scandal of negative molecules, Minister? Kyritsakis and his fellowmen - this korora - in the plenary session of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency of the Hellenic Parliament on 24-9-2015 blocked the decision 616, which talks about negative moleculosis that does not exist in Uganda, to come and say it not to Genarris or Flevaris that we had the committee but in March. It has done so in order not to create a loot from the unprecedented procedure of this committee, which is politically manipulating the Competition Committee and demolishing this independent authority into a cheap underselling of political calculations. This position, Minister, is not an arbitrary conclusion, but proof of the feasibility of the Ministry's political leadership, as the previous ones, attempts to ensure full control of the Competition Committee by dictating the content of its decisions. Mr Stathakis has not signed the activation of the control mechanism, which will be carried out at your own initiative in the Competition Committee. These people sit and get paid to your ministry, scratching the pencils. He didn't sign, because he was under pressure from outside, as it is said. Don't you dare! Dare it within the framework of the n. 3959, to exercise your supervisory powers, to make institutional control, at last, in this preamble called the Competition Committee, see what the development of key cases is, to see which cases are in drawers years, and finally see what the "substantial" of the members of the committee are. I said something to Mr. Kyritsakis to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency of the Greek Parliament, where I was a member and answered me "for a hole jacket" and some other graphics. For practically nothing! For the "subjects" of nothing! For the luxurious houses nothing! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Please give me the time you gave Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u250	I've already given you more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u251	Mr. Loverdos spoke fourteen minutes. I've spoken ten minutes and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u252	Twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u253	We're not gonna fight for the minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u254	Okay, fine, just don't fix me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u255	I'm not correcting you, I'm saying it in a good mood.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u256	Okay, in a good mood.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u257	I'm sorry, I didn't mean to. However, you will not disagree, when there is a dialogue, and of course none of the people who are present that our people will do the darkest Christmas in post-population this year. You also have responsibility, Minister, even though you are newly appointed. SYRIZA and New Democracy and all parties in the Memorandum Arc are responsible. Finally assume your responsibilities towards the nation and history! Honor the ideas some of you have had in the past and stand up to the loan sharks and the undeniable European Union of austerity! Say, "Here is Greece and the neck of the Greek yoke does not end up!" I very much doubt that you will, but know that surely those who honor the Greek flag, those who worship the country, those who sacrifice themselves for their ideas, who are no more than the nationalists of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u258	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-nine students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Elementary School of Patras. Welcome to the House from the beautiful Patras! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister now has the floor, Mr Apostolos, then Mr Barbarousis, Mr Karagiannis, Mr Mitatakis and then Mr Javaras. Mr Katsis and Mr Megalomoustakas have also called for the floor at the level of Parliamentary representatives. I'm talking about knowing the show. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u259	Ladies and gentlemen, I will dwell on two articles, which come as recommendations from the OECD toolbox. But I'd say they caught up with us. I'm starting with Article 26. First of all, I would like to say that this is not about abolishing the Single Register of Traders in Agricultural Products. What we are bringing are provisions that abolish the obligation to lodge a letter of guarantee and regulation, which prevented the application of the register, so that today they are registered in the traders' register only two hundred - you know that it is thousands - who, of course, are those who, in accordance with the existing provisions, did not have the obligation to lodge a letter of guarantee. A number of articles under Law 3955/2001 were amended by Law 4235/2014 and the Minister for Rural Development was authorised to lay down details concerning the letters of guarantee. By Ministerial Decision later, although details of this were specified, it was practically impossible to implement this Ministerial Decision. Of course, he has committed himself to making the necessary amendments, which has not been done so far. We therefore want to use this register for the safety and reliability of agricultural trade products beyond compliance with the toolbox. We have decided not only to comply with this toolbox, but, having evaluated the whole institutional framework, we also decided on this. We have now prepared relevant proposals for the functioning of the Trade Register, which I repeat has not worked until now. And I would say that it is not only the question of ensuring that agricultural products are paid off, but also the regulation, the draft law we are preparing for the movement of agricultural products, we are all trying to respond to two issues. Therefore, we do not simply want to activate the provisions laid down by Law 4152/2013 and Law 2011/2007, which is a compliance with the Community directive. We want to combat delays in the payments of agricultural products. There is no greater problem in the rural area today than the main supplier in particular has become in the large supermarkets and, for example, milk lasting at least five days with cheques of at least ten months. This is a key issue. Secondly, we will amend the institutional framework by linking it to sectoral registers and GFCM. It will, in other words, be a register of compulsory certified products. As far as Article 27 is concerned, we are only amending the point referring to the presence of a scientist responsible for the marketing of fertilisers, and indeed to the global one. Natural and legal persons marketing fertilisers are defined as undertakings marketing alpha and beta fertilisers. And therefore, at every point of sale of the relevant fertilisers, a scientist responsible will be employed under a contract to ensure that users/builders are properly informed and that the risk of burdening or degrading the environment is minimised. So, ladies and gentlemen, as you can imagine, it is not a mere compliance with the OECD toolbox, but we are making moves to improve, especially to protect the farmers' incomes, but above all to protect the environment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u260	Mr Constantine Barbarousis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u261	Thank you. It is truly amazing the speed at which you bring the bills to the vote in order to meet the demands of the international loan sharks. After almost two years of governance of the country from the SYRIZA - ANEL group, we are able to conclude that you leftists deserve to receive the professionals' title of how to turn to a bill a multitude of unrelated provisions. It is, however, an art and it is. Of course, we're talking about pointless provisions between them. But if we look at them separately, one is more important than the other. So today, in order to prevent the Eurogroup of 5 December and show that something you have done, you even brought us a ‘Babelle’ bill. More specifically, in this bill - an abortion on the one hand, you refer to the perfection of the system of setting up companies through the "one stop" and on the other hand, you involve the arrangements for removing regulatory barriers to competition and flying in and related to modifications - improvements to existing laws. Now let us put aside and vote on something that you have already decided, and that is why you have forged it to us in the form of urgency. However, let us look a little more closely at the draft legislation in question. You are talking about the formation of companies through the "Stage Service" and electronically. Everything will be done electronically, without the debtor's physical presence being required. Yes, sir. We want, in other words, an electronic "one-stop Service", when we are obliged to register our new identity, we are obliged to go to the register of the public authority in question. It's very interesting. I'm curious to see how this works in practice. You are also talking about the perfection of an electronic system for setting up companies, while in our home country one company is closing down after another because of unbearable taxation. Instead of finding motives and solutions so that the Greek company survives, you are looking to create other, new firms in difficulty. You say that tax information is being abolished at the stage of the recommendation. But if it is not required at the stage of recommendation, when will it be required? When will the person have the place to house his business? If tax information is not required, what will be required? Anyone, in other words, who has public debts or who will have money of unknown origin - in common 'black' - will be able to set up a company? Very interesting. That's very interesting! I really don't understand your thinking. Unless you want to tell us that this service will be directly linked to the "TAXIS" system and will have the entire tax image of the debtor. And don't tell us that he will be connected electronically with the IKA or the OSH to have his insurance image! This really, if it happens in Greece, I'd like to live it. Of course, so far nothing has happened. And in order to be realistic, and as the situation with today's data stands, all that imagines a science fiction scenario. Then you say that the notarial act is abolished to the S.A. and EIA, the name control paradox is removed, etc. In short, you are simplifying things. I'm sorry, but it doesn't change anything dramatic. In any case, in recent years, an effort has been made to make the "one-Stop Service" ever better. And that is for the benefit of the national economy and not because it is imposed by every troika. As far as Article 16 is concerned, in relation to discounts, it is appropriate to find a way to protect consumers from shop fraud. And there were a lot of them last Friday or, to name it more correctly, the Black Friday that passed us! With Article 18, you return to the subject of ovens. In fact, you want to remove the neighborhood oven, destroy the small- and medium-sized business and be able to market bread. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Moving on to Article 20, which refers to aid for entrepreneurship, investment, etc., it is noteworthy that it is basically the enterprises that will be supported that have been set up by NGOs, taking advantage of the illegal immigration crisis. These will also be supported by your approval, since they are your "children", which in the name of illegal immigration now make strong colonies. Do not worry about the Greek companies affected by the economic crisis! In fact, it is sad to see how you follow the orders of loan sharks and have our Greece sliding behind political choices imposed on you. On the other hand, it is good that all this is done by you, the good leftists, who have been telling the people all these years that you have been cutting off for the right of the worker and that you have been one with the people's order. What I have to say is one: this kind of scorching, comrades, not in Mullen Rouge!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u262	So let's go to the second colleague from the second circle, Mr. Ioannis Karagiannis from SYRIZA. Then Mr. Metarakis and Mr. Javaras will be followed. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has clear development features, because it improves the business environment, strengthens the competitiveness of the economy, contributes to better functioning of the market, reduces administrative burdens on small and medium-sized enterprises and upgrades the country's investment environment. The Greek economy has paid the above delays, with the cost of the problematic relationship between bureaucracy and efficiency estimated in 2008 at EUR 7 billion from a study by the European Central Bank, while with 2009 figures, the same cost amounted to 23.3% of GDP, according to a study by the World Bank. In the same wavelength forty years, most of the problematic relationships have been created, mainly with large investments - but it is not the present one - with the relevant reports to return to the crime scene. A special committee has already been set up, which will intercede and decapitate business plans that have been completed in bureaucratic procedures. This draft law simplifys and modernises all procedures for setting up companies, which will be done from now on through the "one-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-shop-s". Thus, the possibility of setting up a company from a distance is significantly reduced, as is the cost of setting up a company by 30%, the tax information of the founders at the establishment stage is abolished and a number of ‘TAXIS’ is assigned at the time of the company recommendation. For the first time, the possibility of exceptionally setting up a public limited company or an EIA without a notarial document is introduced, the incorrect pre-checked name is abolished and the physical presence of the DUs is not required because of electronic procedures. These changes form a very favourable business and investment framework, support small and medium-sized enterprises and block large investment needed by the country. But, in order to be even more competitive, we must complete the reforms, draw up national and regional strategies, increase the social capital of the economy, and when conditions allow it, reduce the taxation of businesses and free trade. At the same time, Minister, we must establish our extroverters and our economic diplomacy abroad so that we can attract investment and promote Greek exports. Ladies and gentlemen, the third part of the legislation, and in particular Article 26 thereof, has already been mentioned - we have abolished the guarantee letters by traders. The amendment proposes the abolition of the provisions relating to the obligation to lodge a guarantee letter on the basis of the fact that No 3955/2011 became inactive, firstly, because the amount of the guarantee amounts to EUR 100,000 per year. In many cases trade exceeds this amount and fatalities remains uncovered the weakest or vulnerable part of transactions that are not the producer. The second reason is that some of the traders did not have to make a guarantee letter. This in itself causes distortions of healthy competition. The risk of distortion is exacerbated by the discreet treatment between different categories of traders, which may be exempted by a decision of the Minister for Rural Development. These improvements, combined with the implementation of European Directive 7/2011, which was incorporated into Greek legislation in 2013, but has never been implemented, and concern the payment periods of producers from large retail chains, will help suppliers and especially farmers and producers of fresh products. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u264	And I thank you, Mr. Karayannis, because you were consistent in time. Mr Metarakis has the floor, and then Mr Javarras as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy. Here, Mr. Mitarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u265	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone is now aware of the way in which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is legislating. First of all, you realise, ladies and gentlemen, that we are voting today on the famous OECD toolbox. In fact, the Deputy Minister for Labour also came to table another amendment, even more liberal, opening up other branches of the Greek economy. But you are also clandestine. I cannot point out that today, with Article 22, you are proposing seventy-four changes to Law 4412 which you voted on a few months ago and with the legislative improvement of twelve other changes. Nor can I say that it is a rough way to legislate on development law and, already, while it has only been a few weeks since its vote, the first amendments come to Parliament. It is good that you have withdrawn Article 19. Minister, to God, development law is not a basic tool from now on, because if you remember, it has almost zero funding. The resources provided by the development law are not even a drop in the ocean. Thirdly, we are legislating again today as an emergency and tomorrow as an emergency, perhaps because you do not want the SYRIZA Members to have time to understand what the bills you are voting on include. Yesterday you were looking for the MPs to support the other urgent bill. But, ladies and gentlemen, you are bringing in a bill in principle positive, which facilitates business creation procedures and lifts certain regulatory obstacles. But don't try to convince us that you're a government that loves reforms and promotes them or believes in entrepreneurship, because the evidence speaks for themselves. Greece in 2010 was in the thirteenth place in the World Bank's business ranking. After a few years, he went to the sixty-first place, i.e. forty-eight seats, thanks to the reforms of the previous government. And today, two years later, he is still trapped, while in individual areas he loses positions, such as in the ease of opening up a business and in the additional funding due to your own capital control. Today, as a result of your "superior" negotiation, businesses and workers have been overly burdened and unfairly. For example, you increased your insurance contributions, reduced by New Democracy in 2014. You increased VAT everywhere and also imposed excise duties on specific products and services. From January 1, 2014, you were increasing VAT on all islands, overlooking the constitutional clause on islands, while New Democracy in 2014 had reduced VAT on the focus by 10 points and we were aiming to reduce other taxes. You increased the excise duty on energy, while the New Democracy had reduced the tax on heating oil by 30%. You have increased the solidarity levy, which we have also reduced. And now what are we talking about? Because of the failure of your policy, we are now talking about the possibility of abolishing the personal difference in the main pensions, the reduction of tax, which concerns lower and medium-sized economic classes. We are talking about abolishing the special tax on seafarers, while they spend almost every year on ships abroad, so that we can lead to the complete defoliation of crews and Greek shipping. Ladies and gentlemen, today the country is backwards. You take tough measures, not because the program needed them in 2014. The Greek people now understand that. You take them because in 2015 you proved that you did not have a cruising plan and accepted unprecedented measures, which we did not need. You have maintained the primary surplus target very high. You have not earned anything new for the debt, for which you have no substantial suggestion, and even you are celebrating the PSI and the voluntary remarket. You expect growth in 2017, Minister, while the Greek economy continues to suffer from lack of credibility, lack of liquidity, experience an unprecedented tax storm and investment apnea. And only yesterday OSCE cut growth expectancy by one percentage point in 2019. While in the period 2012-2014 Greece had a wind of new investments, according to a study by the CEE - Minister, you mentioned the CEE - that there were seventy-four new projects totalling 37.6 billion euros at the time. Unfortunately, the bill you bring today, which speaks, for example, to facilitate the start of activity, perhaps two years ago. But today it seems like a drop in the ocean. "The little too late", which the Anglo-Saxons would say. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come to leave the planning and implementation of reforms to those who want, to those who know and to those who can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u266	Mr Konstantinos Javarras is called for in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u267	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it was March 30, 2014 when Parliament passed a bill that the then government of Samaras - Venizelos had proposed. This particular bill was intended to incorporate OECD suggestions, the so-called ‘OECD toolbox’ at the time, to strengthen free competition in the context of those forces that strengthen the capacity and dynamism of the Greek economy. It was then that the then Chief of Staff Response and current Prime Minister Alexios Tsipras, addressing the New Democracy party, said: "As thieve thieves hastyly bring today under the urgency procedure a bill that has no purpose but to salvage the economy, but to sell the national wealth and to relieve the banking system from its Greek character". It's been two and a half years. And while all of you are now doing this - hearings, of course - in a way that is real, that day and that time you were giving with all the tension of your soul and your political action in the world to understand that it is a policy of betrayal, a policy of extinguishing the country in arrogant interests. Today, then, oh of the miracle, you are the protagonists in the same direction, the fronts in the same direction. Of course, we understand that. And because we are persecuted and persecuted in politics by a long-term suffering and by a superiority vis-à-vis our opponents, what I will personally comment on from this step is that, in fact, "experience me" because in the 18th Bremmer of Louis Bonaparte Charles Marx has said, "Conscious always comes late, consciousness comes after a celebration." You, too, prove to be consistent with Marx's texts on delay, but inconsistent with the contents of consciousness. In other words, what today is the content of the government's conscience was the content that was different and completely different from the Officerial Response of the SYRIZA at the time. But I won't be blaming myself or lying to any of you. But what you are obliged to do to the Greek people, whom you have deceived, is to recognize and admit the self-evident, the great truth. That, in other words, there is no other way of dealing with the crisis, apart from the one that the Samara - Venizelos government had started implementing. Because, indeed, you two-and-a-half years are trying to connect the present to the night of 30-3-2004, where the current Prime Minister said these words I mentioned earlier from the Step of the House. These two and a half years of history, that is, they are missing from the Greek people, they are missing from the economy, they are absent from national dignity and independence. It is a deficit for us, which I really do not think you are able to cover today, and that is why you are already a government, which is under the general, public and popular outcry, you are on the way. However, there is another issue, which also arises impenetrablely for a reasonable man, who does not need to have a particularly ideological relationship with the politics or the history of this place. What is being proved, secondly, is that there is not - at least on the day that we all live here and around the world - an alternative to left power. Power is one! And you have this power today. And, of course, as I have said on another occasion from the Step, the liberal institutions that are founding and organising and compiling the Greek Constitution of 1975, you have left the sweetness of its occupation and refresh all the fruits by appointing those you want as post-call officials and doing just what you want. To the most prosperous extent, all of which you two and a half years ago accused us and became the public prosecutors of political life. Of course, today you no longer have that right. And thank God! But there is another point: if we remove these two findings, I believe that those who have produced from this Step and with the consequences of the oath were addressing the parties who have ruled the place in previous years, for one thing they are not entitled to speak, about the fact that they were allegedly on the part of the New Democracy or the PASOK or the other parties. This is a very nice word, which from much use has lost its meaning. I will simply use it, because I refer to the words of those who have precedented this Step. So the narrative of the others, of the ones you want to put them in the past, was a story that had to do with miserable, complex and corruption. And it is shocking, indeed, to note this and this address to the opponent when it comes from a party which claims to be democratic and left. And really, tell me, do you parties rank them into your conscience - this late, which I told you before - based on the idea that you have for them or on the role they play in history? In fact, have you thought or ever realised that history is happening with ideas, but it is not with illegality, to the extent that you want to testify against democratic parties, who are today in Parliament with the approval and confidence of the Greek people, that they have this role that you are saying to us every day? Then what about the Prime Minister - why is this case not yet over - when he declares to the Athens mortgage guard that he is the SYRIZA owner of a property that does not belong to him and succeeds in doing so to mislead the mortgage guard and guard a allegedly property title for the property of Koumoundouros which does not belong to you? What's that called, partner? This is called a revolutionary Left? Is that a moral advantage on the Left? [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Well, some of you must finally be silent and silent. Do you know why? Because there is another issue, Minister. And we really welcome you to Greece, because from what I read in your CV, you were President of the Levy Institute. I would like to know, then, and I would like you to answer what I am going to ask you. If you did the same work in the United States of America, could you propose a provision like the bill in Article 23? Are you, as a man of an academic establishment such as that which gives you the post of professor, really convinced that this void of the law, which you say has existed because the government has not yet adopted the joint ministerial decision setting up the Central electronic register of contracts drawn up by direct delegation, this so-called void - why is it not empty - that this delay gives the right to any democratic government that respects transparency and fights corruption to say that as many contracts as are directly awarded - that is, over EUR 20,000 without VAT - to carry out public works, supplies of goods and services, are exempt from the obligation to publish them and that they are not published, until this law is published, no problem, no harm to their validity, at the time when Article 118 of the law you have voted on to be automatically void? Why are you doing this? And why, if you have at least a sincere intention to correct some arrhythmia, some difficulty, do you not say that after the drafting and publication of these specific ministerial decisions, retrospectively, if these conventions are not published in this register, then they will be invalid? Why don't you do that? I know why you don't do it, but I know exactly why we're in this position to you. Because we're different from you. Let's finally figure it out. And why once these Romans, these wise nomads, said in Roman law, in very few words, something very right and something very wise: "Nemo auditorur suam turtudinem allegans", that is, no one is heard in civilized and justifiable societies, when invoking his own fault, his own indifference. You, therefore, exempt from the obligation to publish these contracts, that is to say, create a pocket of non-transparency and corruption, solely on the grounds that you are responsible for the fact that this decision has not been published so far. This is our difference, gentlemen, and this will separate us from us forever. So it is good to keep some quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u268	Because Mr. Papas isn't here, we're on the list. The floor will be taken by Mr Kegeroglou, Mr Triantafylides and Mr Skrekas and then by the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Marios Katsis. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I will not deal with the issues Mr Javaras mentioned about SYRIZA's contradictions before the 2015 elections, about the lies and everything he promised the Greek people and then failed them or about the delusions, as Mr Tsipras called them, to reduce the sentence. However, I will deal with what he said after the elections and what is happening today. I would remind you that on 12 March 2015, by addressing the OECD at a meeting he had, he said in particular: we do not want to reform Greece, but rather to transform it. We will aim at smuggling fuel and tobacco, and we will make legislation more stringent. Big talk! It seems that in time Mr Tsipras and the provisions that are currently introduced instead of transforming Greece, he was transformed. It was adapted, I would say, to the checks of the systems and closed circuits. Objectional transformation is reflected not only by the exceptional acceptance of the OECD tools, which it had denounced in every way within and outside the House, but also by specific articles in the draft law, to which our rapporteur and our parliamentary representative have already referred. What you have withdrawn, Minister, for for forged invoices, Article 15 for which you are insisting, for the relaxation of fuel-fuelling control systems - you say - the abolition of the register of traders of agricultural products are very typical examples, especially the latter. The farmer had a protection. He knew that the one registered in the Trade Register had passed through some certification and had in advance been able to trade with him in a relatively secure manner. So we unleashed those who were issuing serial false invoices and who did not pay the producers. I must, of course, remind you here that Mr Alexiades was coming and telling us about the checks that will be carried out on the basis of this register, and he was here telling us about the ministerial decisions he issued and the checks he has ordered and the treatment of fuel smuggling. But it seems that Alexiades took it with him with the reconstruction, as he took with him, and the seventy-seven names of the big-fashioned ones to whom the SYRIZA - ANEL government gave 1 billion fines and increases for fuel smuggling mainly. These names are due by the government a year and a half now to bring them to Parliament and it does not. Full opacity and in relation to the names now of these conventions that come below! But, Minister, with the excuses you have just mentioned - I have listened carefully to your speech - it is assumed that the provision relates to the agreement between the car driver and the dealer - to the company - and only to the cost of the systems and of the GPS, with these supposedly excuses, our doubts made us certain. I don't know if you think you can throw us ashes in our eyes. The people told us a phrase before, 'for Americans, do you pass us?' Look, what you said had nothing to do with it. Here enter a provision where you say that tankers and means of transporting biofuels may - and not be - have quality and quantitative control systems. That's what you're saying. No cost connections. So it needs to be changed and made 'obligated' and find the cost of who pays it. They're required. This is the phrase of the Greek that must be placed in its place "may be". Otherwise, you have to explain to us: All this troika tells you? These three specific provisions and forged invoices you withdrew, the troika told you to put them, the institutions - how do you call them - or some of your advisers? You need to explain. I now come to public procurement. With Law 4412 on public procurement adopted in August, the whole auction programme was overturned, either for projects or for public and OTA supplies, and we have a voice of despair from all those involved in the implementation of the ESDP. At least six months were lost by this law which did not explicitly provide for a transitional period. Of course, we have to say that the Ministry of Infrastructure claims there is a transitional period. It is a typical example of the tender of the second phase of the Captain's work in Heraklion, which has been reinstated in the House, where Mr Spirtz comes and tells us that there is a transitional period and "we will give instructions in order to make the tender" and the Ministry of Economy comes through the managing authorities - and this managing authority I will submit the document - and it says that no, can't apply what Mr Spirtz says, we must make the regulatory decisions. You can finally consult the two ministries, so we can know what's going on. The implementation of the ESDP cannot be affected because there is this inconsistency between the two ministries. I will submit the document of the Management Authority of Crete and I expect us to have a development on this issue. Finally, on the question of the conventions you are saying with the article, there should not be posted and so on. Oh, no. We certainly do not vote for it, but you have a moral obligation, as for the names of the two hundred and seventy, even after all, to have an obligation of suspension. Now, why don't you think they'll be posted next month in the next two months? What do you want to hide? These are unexplained things, completely unexplained, and the explanations you are trying to give confirm the suspicions that they really want to hide some things that have been done, but you want to legally close down so that there are no responsibilities in the future. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u270	Mr Alexandros Triantafyllides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u271	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, before I begin my speech, I would like to table two documents. The first is "hot-heated" like the traditional bread that we ensure with our bill and has found the happy resonance of the entire baker industry. It's from the Association of Industries of Northern Greece. It assesses and evaluates both bills that we make as the Ministry of Development and Economy, saying the Association of Industries of Northern Greece: "...the bill moves in the right direction...", "... another positive initiative...", "In addition, another positive initiative of the state is the choice of the three branches from which the legislative framework of business licensing procedures is initiated". And below, they say the most important one: "We believe that the second bill also represents an important reform effort by the government, since the correct implementation of the relevant legislative framework is abolishing a number of supporting and meaningless bureaucratic procedures, which had been mentioned several times in the past, both the Association of Industries of Northern Greece" - which did not devour SYRIZA, let me not specialize - "as other supporters of business in the country". I put it in the Minutes warm - warm from the Association of Industries of Northern Greece. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the other hand, I would like to put forward the statement by Mr Mitsotakis in Bulgaria, which says: 'I also had the opportunity to have an excellent and substantial productive debate with representatives of important Greek enterprises operating here in Bulgaria. On this occasion, I would like to reiterate that the Greek companies, which have been active in Bulgaria for many years, have been an example of extroversion and entrepreneurship. But that's not enough. He says and adds: "They are enterprises that have escaped from the narrow limits of Greece" - so says Mr.Mitsotakis - "and have decided to invest outside Greece, thus increasing their own potential". Well done, Mr. Mitsotakis! That's a Truth Agreement. You've said it all! You smear out of business from the country you dream to rule. Let my fellow citizens wait for jobs, the Thessalonians and people from all over Greece and the latter close the door! I submit from the website nd.gr, the website of the New Democracy, the relevant statement, which is in introductory form. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I shall now come to my speech. Please, if possible, count the time from now on. Thank you. With the dual legislative initiative to strengthen and support potential investments, with their exemption from chronic passions, obstacles and contingencies, we are sending out a strong signal to the world of the real economy, a message of creating the competent and necessary tools of work, Minister, support and support entrepreneurship and private initiative as a pilot of development, as one of the three areas of recovery and development contractors: public sector, private sector, social economy. The strong message, however, that this government supports private initiative and entrepreneurship, with jobs as a pilot of growth, along with the social economy and the synergies of the public and private sectors, is a message that needs to be broadcast every day. Here, there is a need for a substantial clarification and distinction. I do not wish and am against the business model 'the money in Switzerland, the homes in offshore and the damage of the company to Article 91, so that the state budget can bear them'. I look forward to and support the private economy in a model of entrepreneur, consistent with his obligations towards the public sector, banks, insurance funds and, above all, workers - not in a far-reaching regime - and in the clause of absolute respect for labour rights and collective agreements. Development is mostly psychology. It is therefore necessary, following the vote on the new development law and the lodging of seven hundred applications for membership in the new development area, to send to every corner of the country the message of the national relaunching for new production units everywhere, throughout the Greek region. It is necessary to inspire, push, mobilize the unemployed world to start from scratch. We don't have time. We've got to cut off. Society can't wait. The repetition and focus on the terms 'loans, taxes, deficits, debts' and again, what we call the 'financial crisis' is not enough. It is necessary to get away from the little - let me have a debate on allowances, aids, aids, the sharing of poverty, the recycling of the current misery, and to go to the big debate, the substantial debate on new jobs, new jobs, new investments, on the economy of society, on the world of production and development, within a comprehensive plan of national and social participatory regeneration and reconstruction, where each Greek and every Greek, individually and collectively, will be able to see himself, its prospect, its future, according to its abilities and needs, so that it is not forced to choose the way out of the country. This war of the line, of easy and inexpensive impression, of the sterile controversy - with two words - of competition of deterioration continues to marginalize society, disappoints it. She's addicted to this kind of non-policy, management, and eventually leads her to abstention. I humbly claim, ladies and gentlemen, that this competition of deterioration does not develop social forces, develop political awareness, improve the level of social participation and efficiency, neither in the economy nor in civilisation, and that is why we should not be concerned with the distortion of competition between the parties. It is our duty to ensure that all of us have a place to lead to the maximization of social participation through a competition of supply to the people and our country. Where are we? I'm coming to this bill. We're equiping the real economy...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u272	Yeah, but we don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u273	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u274	Well done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u275	Thank you. We equip the real economy with tools and ways to overcome chronic pathogens that cancel, inactivate, act as a stimulus for every thought for investment. Completely telegraphically I mention: bureaucracy, time-consuming procedures, corruption, 'labelling', the absence of economic incentives, tax instability, pluralism with conflicting provisions. What are we doing? For the first time, we are setting up remote business, via an electronic platform. We remove the requirement of the notarial document in the process of setting up the S.H.I. And the U.S. We are evolving the institution of one-stage services, as we are now giving the flexible solution by adopting necessary ministerial decisions. With the strengthening of the institution, and above all...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u276	Mr. Triantafylide, you have to shut down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u277	I'll be done. Thank you very much for your understanding, Mr President. I'm hanging up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u278	Yeah, I understand, but don't go too far.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u279	The company is set up by means of an electronic platform. It will be greatly reduced both the costs and the time for the companies to be set up. There is also provision for a free recommendation for the first year. And I close with the modification and the completion, which was the request of the professional world, of a peer-to-peer company. On the matter, Mr Minister, of Article 25 on the pensioners of ELVO, I am making a warm request. The money is there. Let us not continue this process, which has led these retired people to despair and despair for seven years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u280	Mr. Triantafylides, no more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u281	It is a request from four parties, four MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u282	Good, the Minister has heard you. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u283	I'm hanging up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u284	Yes, you have said that five times I 'close' it so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u285	So at the same time, we are working as a parliamentary majority and as a government for a critical mass of positive developments in order for the country to be dismantled from the recycling of the crisis over the last seven years, which has left behind the unemployed, the most deprived and the homeless and to enter 2017, the year when our country and our people will understand, they will feel, participate - equipped with the necessary legislative tools - in turning the page to hope and perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u286	All of you must time your speeches before you go to Stepma. Today, there is tolerance to anyone who asked me - rightly you, Mr Mitsarakis, have protested because you had five minutes - because the meeting is going well and we will be done sooner than the time set. That's why I'm showing a tolerance. It may not have been that way, however, that the procedure was different. I am not happy with either me or any of my colleagues making comments and complaining. Mr Skrekas, then the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Marios Katsis, has the floor. Come on, Mr. Screka. You have the floor. There will be relative tolerance for you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr President. I am very sorry, ladies and gentlemen, because I see that the previous Member, Mr Triantafylides, continues to apply the logic and practice of falsification of the so-called, at the present stage of the Chief of Officerial Response, Mr Mitsotakis, in an attempt to deceive and distort what the representatives of counter-population say. What do I mean by that? That if my dear colleague read a little more of what Mr Mitsotakis said in his speech in Bulgaria, he would see that, after what you said, Mr Colleague, he said, Greece should see what it needs to do to restore the investment that has left Greece, because, in the last few years, the tax policy that you have been following. In fact, I have here the evidence that the closure of businesses this year seems to have increased by six thousand last year. About six thousand more businesses, Mr. Minister of Development, you want growth and you want to set up new businesses, closed down from last year's tax policy pursued by your Government, the so-called development policy. In fact, this year alone, they closed down three thousand more businesses than they opened up. So this toward knowledge and compliance. That's what you're doing. Instead of looking to find the responsibilities in Anti-Population, which another thing has delivered you to you at the moment you have brought to Greece, see what you will do to reverse this downhill, in which you have brought the Greek economy. But how can you do this when Mr Chakalotos said yesterday that the current negotiation, which I expect the government to complete on 5 December, that is, in six days from now, is the most difficult after August, in the summer of 2015? And for this very difficult negotiation, ladies and gentlemen, and Minister of Economy and Development, which is judged to be too much in terms of the future of Greece, what is the Prime Minister of Greece doing? What does he do, six days before the target deadline, which he has set to close? He leaves for a four-day holiday trip to Cuba to honor a man for whom much has been mentioned. He started as a rebel, but forgot to take democratic elections for fifty years in his country and ended up following the practice of all oligarchs and dictators, who have followed similar tactics. The only European leader, to date, who has been on holiday for four days in Cuba, is Mr Tsipras, at the moment when the country's future is judged! You know, Minister, I've been through your ministry myself. I had to go to New York in a difficult time. In forty-eight hours, I went, came and did the meetings I had to meet with investors to come here and invest in the country, help the country's development and create jobs. That's what this Prime Minister does. That's how he feels responsibility and seriousness! Is the captain getting out of here and leaving the steering wheel of the boat at the time of the storm? And you want the country to recover? Tell me, Minister of Development and Economics, is there any chance that the country will recover and achieve an increase in GDP by 2.7%, when you will apply 2.5 billion extra taxes, compared with last year and when you will make cuts of 1.5 billion euros? Are these math coming out to you a few days ago? No, they did you a favor. They put these on, but you know they won't come out. They won't come out and the people will pay for it in a few months, which won't make the numbers once more. And you will go back to pension cuts again to an increase in taxation, as you have done these two years, which has increased taxation on petrol, heating oil, cigarettes. Now you're taxing the coffee. You've increased the VAT. You have increased the taxation of the incomes of natural and legal persons. You're increasing contributions. Do all this and you want investors to invest? But why don't you look at what neighboring countries do? What's Bulgaria doing, Mr. Triantafylides talking about? Has it increased tax rates to attract investments? The opposite did. As far as this bill is concerned, we had started this. As Minister of Development, in fact by implementing the work done by the previous ones, my predecessors, Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Dendias, we signed up to today's Chief of Officerial Anti-Population, Mr Mitsotakis, abolishing the licence to 25% of the country's professions that account for about 16.5% of GDP. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Konstantinos Skrekas, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What have you been doing so far? Nothing. Last minute you come and bring a bill, which is full of "blocks", supposedly, to show your reformist astro and thus give the signal to the international investors that you want to come here and invest in the country. But all the rest of what you're doing, they're kicking out the investors. The last example, of course, is DESFA. What will happen, Minister of Development, with this investment that would bring about 400 million in the country and about 2.5 billion euros in an investment plan? Is he going to move on? The successful consortium has given two months to its guarantee bank letter. What are you gonna do? Is this thing going on or is it going to go to the bells? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u288	There's no Minister who wants to intervene. I don't mean Mr. Papadimitriou, who will in the end be placed. So Mr. Katsy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin with the speech - because I was really surprised by the position of Mr Georgiadis, the Vice-President of the New Democracy and Mr Loverdou - saying: Mr Georgiadis, an eminent right-wing and neoliberal, has become able to read here in the Greek Parliament a statement of the 'Rubicon' and speak of Anelli and of the useful Left. And Mr Loverdos took care to speak in this House about chairs, with which we symbians are bound, my ears, when he was elected MP - I was 15 years old at the time - since 2000 and I do not remember being in the ministry's position, not being Minister, to every government. They actually give rise to the impression of what we hear from the opposition, and they obviously bear witness to a strategic deadlock, the strategic deadlock in the policy of successory, which still continue today to defend themselves with the government and the events of the Samara - Venizelos government. Ladies and gentlemen, we will leave you in this situation, as with today's process, with today's bill at a time when the Greek economy is at a critical turning point and after six years of protracted recession and decline of GDP, it seems that for the first time the economy is stabilising and ready to go to recovery. Our aim is that the positive effects of the recovery should be directed towards these sensitive social groups, which have accepted the greatest weight of the crisis, to those citizens who have been in the air, without any social protection net. Sustainable economic development, however, is not a legality. It does not come with automatic pilot nor can it rely on the counterproductive model of state-owned entrepreneurship and guaranteed profits, which it has bloomed in the past and largely contributed to the country's bankruptcy. Everyone knows that serious investments to enable and calculate their investment plan need three things: Firstly, they need a stable and predictable long-term economic environment in the country. Secondly, they need stable taxation and financial instruments that act as incentives. Thirdly, we need to combat bureaucracy and equal and transparent rules for all. Our Government is working with design and methodics, to respond convincingly to all these three issues and at the same time striving to get out of the comitology. More specifically, for each of the above: First, the debt regulation, membership of the QE, quantitative relaxation, and the reduction of surpluses after 2018 that claim serious conditions in the negotiation, can form a clear path for investment and economic stability. Secondly, with the provisions of the new development law, a stable tax environment for twelve years is introduced, and in conjunction with the full absorption of the ESRB, its redirection to sectors that are a competitive advantage to our country and not to friends and friends, the leverage of funds from the European Investment Bank in the direction of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is indeed a financial instrument that strengthens the investment climate. And thirdly, with this draft law we are giving a strong blow to bureaucracy and complex procedures, which discourage healthy entrepreneurship and create corruption and complexity. We are therefore talking about an overall grid of actions, which aims to lay the foundations for sustainable and fair growth, a change in the country's production model and a facilitation of business in a difficult business period. Improving the business environment is essential to enhance the competitiveness of the Greek economy. I stress that, speaking of measures to strengthen competitiveness, I am referring to actions that help to improve the functioning of the market, with benefits, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. Instead, the New Democracy talks about improving competitiveness by crashing labour income and deregulation of the labour market. We are constantly blamed by the Qualified Opposition that we are ideological and that we are opposed to new or existing business operations. State businessmen, however, and national contractors were not our creation. We found them in front of us, and indeed, full of arrogantness, an arrogant arrogance that you provided in exchange for their support. The broad disinvestment and dismantling of the Greek economy we inherited it from you. We didn't create her. Unemployment has not been reached by us at 28%. We 'ideoleptics' have reduced it to almost 23%. The reduction is small, but it is important too. The monster of bureaucracy, paperwork and suffering, your governments created it and all maintained it, except for the current government. The reason is simple and clear: The bureaucracy was upgrading the country's political staff and serving its breeding conditions. If you didn't have access to a minister, to a MP, to a Secretary General of the Ministry, to intervene, bureaucracy and black darkness were eating you. Fast to civil servants and had not become counted by investors on the capital of the investment. Not to talk about the adolescents, where the result was political persons and entrepreneurs being in a tight hug, "Win-Win", and the healthy business world on the bench. I ask directly: why didn't you, entrepreneurship friendly ones, bring all these years a law on setting up a business in one day and, in fact, in digital terms, when we asked so many times? I think that the answer lies in the dominant cage that existed in the country, which we are trying to overthrow on each side of it. I would like to point out, however, that there are also exceptions to all sides, avoiding'sucking' is understood. However, I will not extend to these things, as it is well known to the citizens, no matter how much people try to convince us about the opposite. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the debate, we have developments concerning the closure of the second assessment and the debate that has been opened on the debt. These are two key issues that concern the future of the Greek economy and the country in general. We cannot ignore them in the public speech, nor, of course, can we incorporate them into a game of micro-political purposes. It is a matter of national importance whether we want it or not. Yesterday we had two important visits to our country, Commissioner Moscovisi and the executive member of the Central Bank, Mr Kere, who made strong contributions to the regulation of Greek debt and the need to close the second assessment in time. We have been seeing for the past few years, but unfortunately, this is not the case with the Qualified Opposition. Attributes to the way it is placed on these crucial issues are the statements made by its MEP, Mr Kefaliannis. In a crested neoliberalism, on the one hand, Mr Kefaloyannis told us that the debt issue is absolutely irrelevant to Greece by 2023 and, on the other, he defended the complete deregulation of the labour market, characterizing the ideology and populism of defending collective agreements and labour rights. Such positions, which are aligned with the hardest and most extreme portions of the lenders, emit negative messages to the international community and, at the same time, demonstrate something else, that your political account is still Mr Samaras's fully failed succes store and your fuel material, the unclean thirst for reinstatement as an end in power. It would be wise not to believe that the world that listens to you was born in the country of Lotteries and does not remember what has happened in the country in recent years. You say hypocritically and everywhere that the debt made it unsustainable, that we came out of the memorandum and that if our program succeeds, we will best return where we were in 2014. Yes, sir. Why don't you give us the application to the lenders you've made for the debt creditworthiness you've been asking for to see the evidence? Put it down here, let's see what you've been telling them. What numbers were we supposed to leave the IMF in 2014 before you hand over power? What was the height of the ten-year bond? The indicator of the banks' capital adequacy? The height of the NPLs? What were your goals for growth and surpluses, and what did you achieve, after all? What did you deliver? Was it sustainable or was it a deadly economy because you stopped implementing the wrong second memorandum after the European elections? And if we still charged the country with 86 billion, with the unnecessarily 86 billion, why is the country's debt not even equal to 86 billion, but is what is being reduced? Your answers have been submitted to the public debate many people and everyone knows, even creditors, that your arguments cannot stand the suffering of criticism and evidence, because they are quite simply lies. We here must be honest and clear. The undermining of the national effort, which the Greek Government is making, so that we can have a positive outcome to these great issues of debt and surpluses, does not harm the government, but in the country. That is why we need special attention to what we are saying and, finally, a single voice in opposition as to whether it is finally drawn up with the national line or not. I would like to respond explicitly and clearly to two issues which have been dealt with in today's bill and concern, firstly, Article 24 on public procurement. In fact, until August when we passed the bill, there was no direct award procedure, that is, the obligation to go out to KIMIS? We asked for it. We brought it. Until then it was different. And for the fact that Law 4412 is the law that changed the old regime and because there is this mid-term, which too many self-government, mayors, districtlors on your side have a problem, why is the information system not ready, asking for a number of such issues to be resolved, what do you say? You asked them your own self-government to see what they say about these issues? So, there is no basis, there is no point in blaming us for direct assignments, when you have done nothing about transparency in this matter. The second issue is that of the GPS. I guess we're reading a different bill. It doesn't explain otherwise. Paragraph 8a of Article 15 of Law 3054/2002 reads: ‘The movement of petroleum products by holders of a marketing authorisation, retailing and supply of biofuels by means of means of means of transport, tankers or floating supplies, such as tankers and shells, own-owned or leased, which do not bear...’, etc. Finally, we are changing subparagraph (b) which states: 'The costs of installing this trade mark shall be borne by the owner of the means of transport, while in the case of a leasing or purchase with retention the cost shall be borne by the hirer or the buyer of the means of transport respectively. By decision of the Minister for Development, Competitiveness, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, the specifications are laid down, etc.’. Where does it appear that there is no need for a geographical information system on tankers? Where does that come from? We either read a different bill or make fun of the world. One of them is happening. We can't be crazy in here! In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that today's bill is a modern institutional framework, which responds to the real needs and the fight against the monster of bureaucracy and their replacement by the digital administration. It enables young scientists to innovate by attempting, without being frightened by complex and endless processes, aspiring young entrepreneurs to see the state as a charity and not as an obstacle. Finally, it is a powerful tool that facilitates the shift of our productive model towards innovation, high added value and the utilization of skilled human resources and new technologies. The positive attitude of the bodies that were called upon to present their views suggests that we should move together as a Parliament in the direction of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u290	Mr Constantine and Mr Cameroon have the floor now. The Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres will be followed by Mr Megalamoustakas and we will close with Mr Papachristopoulos, Mrs Megalo-Economist and Mr Theocharis. He has not asked for the floor by another parliamentary representative so far. If there is no other attendance, the meeting will be concluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u291	Mr President, may I have the floor to refer to some legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u292	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u293	The legislative improvements are two: one is from Mr Pappas and one is about Article 33, and the other is a legislative improvement in what I have previously delivered on Article 21.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u294	So, practically you tell us that Mr. Pappas will not defend his article. We must not expect him as a speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u295	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u296	Mr. Constantine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u297	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement because I have heard all my colleagues here and I am mad. It's either I'm not going well, or the people who listen to us. Mr Javarras, the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has to decide on his party if on Monday, Wednesday and Friday we are told 'antimony' and on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday that 'we are giving it all'. Decide, Mr. Javara, you and your party!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u298	We just consider you unreliable!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u299	Do you decide, Mr Javarra, you and your party: Do you want to close the evaluation? We closed two reviews in a year and a half, and you hadn't been closed in five and a half years!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u300	Congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u301	As far as the evaluations are concerned - what you were calling reformists - you have done nothing to help citizens. As for the evidence provided by Mr Skrekas - who is missing - for the companies that went to Bulgaria, as long as the government is in SYRIZA - ANEL, there is much less business than when they were government. I am continuing - so that I do not get far - and I would just like to make a comment, Mr Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u302	No nominal references, please, to politics.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u303	Yes, Mr. President. The first issue is this: One of you has left, the first assessment. The second is that the cutter will come in. The third is the second assessment. We'll close them and stay, don't worry! We'll do what you haven't done for thirty years. That's not bad! You have to put your back on it too! And I'm continuing on the bill. By tabling and voting today's draft law, the cycle, which relates to procedures for simplifying the authorisation of investments, is finally closed. It is a constant request from the people of the business, who, for many years, have waited for relevant initiatives from the state in this direction. Apart from the tax level - which must indeed be reduced - market operators raise issues, such as simplifying the procedures for setting up an enterprise, complete transparency of the legislative framework, reduction of bureaucracy and costs, which this causes. It is worth noting that while in previous years we had governments that were supposed to appear to be business-friendly, instead of that, they glorified with their political decisions the monster of bureaucracy - and these gentlemen were also being said to be reformists - a monster, which in turn gigantic the opacity, complexity and dependency. In the last decade alone, millions of euros have been spent on digitising and connecting public services. However, only in recent months do we see something happening. I mean it. Ladies and gentlemen, the individual articles of the draft law are accessible to all of us - and to the citizens - and I would like not to get tired of what all of my colleagues have said. However, I would like to focus on a very important regulation, which concerns a sector which I personally experience as a baker. I'm raped, too, like all bakers, the agony and stress of the next day. This regulation concerns the introduction of the concept of traditional bread and the traditional oven in the neighborhood. In this way, we correct tragic mistakes from the previous governments, which led to the disappearance of more than 50% of the industry. The tragic equation on their part, the traditional bread, which is a brutal and daily effort, with pretentious and frozen bakery, has led to the loss of serious incomes of over fifteen thousand ovens in Greece. This reality was recognised by the study of the JEP, which led us to the introduction of the terms 'traditional bread' and 'traditional oven'. In this way, we will be able to distinguish companies producing bread from fresh dough and ensure that the consumer is properly informed. We promote the commercial value of a product, synonymous with our tradition as bakers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u304	Go ahead, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u305	It is a product that was the target of specific atonics from the first OECD toolbox, where they gave it all - your tough negotiation with your Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis! - for pushing thousands of families to extermination, small and medium-sized bakers. He won't get through them after all! They won't find any allies in this government. We had promised and kept it, unfortunately, for them, thankfully for us. The New Democracy government must apologise to the bakers for what you have done. And know that your political cost for fifteen thousand bakers will be very great. It'll open up a black page. And that's what a baker tells you. In conclusion, I should like to say that the private sector has nothing to fear from this government, otherwise. The workers now who saw the private initiative as an opportunity to exploit business anxiety, we leave them on the sidelines. The business needs to go ahead, the main road that will take us sooner in the clearing and not make fun reforms like you meant them. And the last thing I would like to say is that I come from Messinia, where there is a large town, Koroni. As you know, the reforms that you and the previous ones have made were with the saying 'I have a barbas in Koroni'. We are going to make reforms to serve the citizens of this country who are suffering thirty years with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u306	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that the Special Standing Committee on Penitentiary Systems and Other Structures for Privileges is tabling its report in accordance with Rule 43A(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. [[The relevant Report will be in electronic form in the ‘GENERAL’]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and four educational attendants from the 2nd Evia Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Kamaeros has the floor and, as I said, Mr Megalamoustakas, Mr Papachristopoulos, Mrs Megalo-Economismou, Mr Theocharis, is closing the list of speakers. Here, Mr. Kamaterre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u307	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, we are being blamed for the New Democracy in particular, but also for the fact that we are doing everything we can to stay in power, because we are very close to it. They tell them to us in power about twenty months. And who do they call? Those who have grown here, in the House, from the various "families", from families, etc. But let's see their attitude to this very thing, that they're the ones who want to come back to power too soon because they've lost their chairs. Yesterday we had an incident in the Committee on Production and Trade. We were talking about another bill, but it is typical of what they are looking for. They have tried technically to prevent this bill from being discussed in the urgent procedure, not what we are discussing now, what we will be discussing in the next few days. What was the target? We know very well that these bills, if we want to close the evaluation, must proceed with any procedures. Their aim is not to close the evaluation - and they say so in any case - that negotiations do not go well, that we do not have a debt settlement and that we should go for elections. They call it every day. What does that mean to the country? What does that show? Do they care about the country, the good of the country or their chairs? We know very well that such a failure surely leads to a fourth memorandum, which we neither want nor the partners, as we have heard in statements in previous days, and we also know what it means to restore the same policy that has been pursued so far and brought us here where we are and that it will be harder. They've been making it all the way now, cuts, etc. I shall refer to two issues which are in this direction. By trying to come back to power, we are accused of what we do not belong to the Left, that they have nothing to do with the Left and that we do what they believe they do. Are they serious? In other words, to speak more specifically, they recognize the ideological hegemony of the Left, that is, that it is true that the ideas of the Left are the ones that benefit the majority of the world, it is in favour of the weak. But they want, at the same time, to say that we cannot do it, we do not do it, and we do what they would do. So let us also say about the reforms. Why didn't they do anything about tax evasion in all these years that they've been ruling? And I ask: is it left or not? We know that socialism is not doing and that it is not a socialist measure to smash tax evasion. But within the framework of the existing system, is it left-handed to hit tax evasion? Is it because of the weak and the world, and does it beat those who have speculated for so many years in the backs of the people? Fingering red tape is not a socialist measure. But within the framework of the system, what is the benefit of such reform? Is it because of the people, who cannot be served while others are served in the well-known way we know, those who have been speculating for so many years? Is it in the left direction of hitting red tape or not? As regards what we are discussing today, then - to come to the bill - is it in the right direction to say that companies - small businesses, because we are more interested in them - can open up with one-stop shops? And to refer to another issue, we are accused of being lawful and we do not know, while they know better for years, and that we are voting today and after a few months we are changing it and that we are voting on such a sloppy way. In fact, they say here that, with Article 23 of today's bill, we are making seventy-four changes - amendments to Law 4412, that is, the development law that we voted on a few months ago. We are not told, however, what modifications these are, deliberately. You want me to tell you two - three of them, due to time, because it would be nice to read them whole. Hear what amendments we make and say that we are legislating handy. In paragraph 2, it states: 'In case (2) the paragraph is deleted. In Article 2, the word ‘CES’ is replaced by the word ‘CES’. That's an amendment of the law. Secondly, “In case of case (9) of the case.” The party received shall be added at the end of the sentence ‘except for those mentioned in (a) of the present case’. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So today we're modifying the law and we're putting a party where it didn't exist. But they don't say that. And we'll hear at the channels tonight that SYRIZA changed seventy-four articles of the previous law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Some changes are made to development law and they are positive, such as, for example, Article 20 in paragraph 5b which provides for islands with increased migration flows of some advantages, such as, for example, being paid in five instalments instead of seven in the law. I'm ending this, Minister. But these are very cowardly, it is nothing for what our islands need, to give those who enter the development law five instalments instead of seven. We have too much to do towards the relief of the islands. And it's not just migratory islands. We are doing well and making use of what is in place, so that we can also negotiate positive points for the islands as well. But it's for all the islands. And I'll tell you something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u308	But please slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u309	I'm done, Mr. President. Especially for the small islands, how to take measures for islands such as Lesvos, Kos, Leros and not take measures for Agathonisi or for the Arkis with the twenty-five inhabitants or for Psrimo. It's not fair at all. It's cowardly and we need to do a lot more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u310	Thank you Mr. Ilias Kamaro, MP of SYRIZA. We shall now proceed with the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Anastasio Megamomoustaka.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u311	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are today inviting ourselves to vote for a law which is beneficial to the Greek economy and to entrepreneurship and which will solve many problems, especially the problem of bureaucracy which has troubled this sector so many years, as does all areas of the Greek economy. Looking at the bill, however, it is like getting it out of time capsules, a time capsule from the past, as this law should have brought decades ago, as Europe introduced into its own legislation, as Bulgaria has introduced since 2000. I will talk about Bulgaria, because it is a beautiful country, which currently has seventeen thousand Greek businesses and employs seventy thousand people in these businesses. I am also going to make a special reference to the speech of the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, who called 'lamolonia' - and I ask him to withdraw that designation - the people who left for Bulgaria. I have too many fellow citizens who have suffered this torture, because it is a testimony to leave your country, to go to another country to work. They are small crafts which, simply because of the memorial policy, could not have life in Greece. So, please, if anyone can do this, because no one is here, to withdraw this designation, because only "lamolonia" are those people who want to feed their families and fight for a living. But economic passions are not just the ones that solve the bill. There are too many of them, such as the unstable political and economic environment. The Prime Minister every time he comes into trouble speaks of elections, taxation changes constantly. If we don't fight that, we won't see it. Also, very important pathogen that keeps us behind is the lack of economic freedom, overtaxation. What can we talk about? For the coefficients? About the 100% deposit? For the VAT? For special contributions? I don't know if they make a business sustainable. Not to add the insurance contributions. Another brake in the economy and entrepreneurship is pluralism, but also the lack of remuneration. What does that mean? With data from the General Accounting Office of the State, we see that 60% of GDP expenditure relates to state expenditure. In combination with overtaxation, citizens wonder where this money is going. Let me tell you a piece of that money where it's going. For this year, compared with last year, public central government payroll increased by 2.1%, i.e. 146 million, an additional sixty million. What does that mean? It means a hundred and sixty-six more SYRIZA and ANEL children. Is that what we need to develop our economy? More state? I don't think so. As Opposition, you have strongly criticised the OECD toolbox and now you are applying it. I'm not wrong with you, you're right. It's reforms that many of them had to take place, but that lifted you up, put you on the throne of populism and deserve you to keep that title. That's why? Because you didn't have any plans at all. This is also obvious within this bill, and it also appears in Article 19, which you withdrew, because there were shadows of corruption from GPS to oil tankers. I don't understand. We are currently losing, according to your ministers' declarations, five billion from fuel smuggling and we are dealing with how much it costs to put a GPS? Let us force the large oil companies to install them in whatever vehicles they work with. It's not the cost. The benefit we'll have will be much bigger. We're talking about bakers. It is in the positive direction of this article. However, under no circumstances solves their problem. Frozen bread has gone everywhere now. I don't think it'll be solved when one goes the next day and buys yesterday's bread to get it at half price. This does not solve the problem definitively, nor does it give salvation to the breadmaking industry. Other examples of lack of planning are Article 23 on which everyone has spoken to us, with which you are correcting and amending the law you brought three months ago, while seeing that you have actually told us that they will be implemented by March. I wish that it would happen, that the "one-stop Services" will be applied and that the "one-stop Services". However, I do not know whether we are in time and how to staff them, but also how to train the staff who will manipulate them. I will now also make a reference to the New Democracy and the PASOK, who want to answer who has brought us to the memorials, what policy. Why don't they do their self-criticism first? I have heard Mr Georgiadis make a pointless opposition and say 'Why are you doing what we said?' Do you think he cares about the world? Why didn't you do it earlier? What have you been doing all these years? You created the politics where the mistress, the necklace and the windows were dominant. Sadly, roséets, rosés again. And that's what got us here. Now, with this bill and what I have seen in committee, another matter of national sovereignty arises. I say this because I have heard the former Minister of State, Mrs Jackson, saying that we are late to bring the same bill that we are discussing, that is, what we are discussing tomorrow, because the lenders have not left us. So, what do we do now? We are immediately bringing in some tax-based reforms. On the other hand, some beneficial reforms, such as this, should have taken place years ago. You, the first time you took over the power you had to do it - I do not blame SYRIZA and ANEL at the moment - for that is how we will get out of the crisis and in no way. We can't be their pawns. At the moment, I will tell you that in order to solve this problem, we must not ask about anything that can be done to lenders, even to beneficial reforms. We must have a strong government. The government cannot be strong, when other than the Prime Minister says, but the Minister says other things the SYRIZA Members say. When we talk about co-operation governments, we don't do it from graphics or because that's our whim, but because that's what people want. Inquiries say so, all polls say so, ordinary people say so. When you talk to them and join them, you will understand that this is what they are asking for, that is to say, a government that has no micro-political purposes and a government that only interests them is getting out of this crisis, without any interest in the political cost at all. So that is what we have to claim, and that is what we are claiming. We do not want a government submissive to foreigners, but a strong government that has vision and plan. This draft law, which I believe we will be voting on because it will help our economy very much, does not reach us unless we fight the pathogenesities I have mentioned before. What I would like to ask you - and this is why I should like to close my speech, because I do not need to supplement anything else - is this: Do you know any country or economy - if you can answer us - which has bloomed with overtaxation? If you know, I'd like to hear it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u312	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the Association of Centres, Mr Anastasios Megalomustakas. The speaker now has the floor, Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, from the Independent Greeks for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Mr President. We all know that the central bankers are too stubborn in their statements. Very often, in fact, Mario Draghi, without any reservations, avoids answering dozens of questions that may be asked to him in the European Parliament. Yesterday he made an exception. When the MEPs of the New Democracy, the respected George Kyrchos, asked him a question about the debt, Mr Mario Draghi was clear. It was not only in its favour, one way or another, of a write-down of the Greek debt, but it clearly said that this is not only helping Greece but also the Eurozone. I would also like to remind you that the Community Commissioner for Recreation, Mr Moscovisi, did not come for a recreational journey or, of course, the right hand of Mario Draghi Benoi Kyre. I say this because I believe that we are at the end of a three-step marathon route. One is the second assessment, with little chance - under 5% - of getting in the way. The second is the debt that comes into the table. I would like to make a clarification here, for those who may not be well informed. We are talking about a write-down of some 65 billion, 20% of the 320 billion. We are talking about constant interest rates, because we know that in future interest rates will increase, i.e. fluctuations will become stable at 1.5% to 1%. The third very important is perhaps the issue of a 30-year-old bond to exchange the old with the new ones and not to find anyone exposed. All this does not have to go through any parliament. In other words, Mr Shoeble's reservations - because this is what this is - are not based on. I would also remind you that yesterday, in a very clear way, Euclid Tsakalotos said: Our surpluses, after 2018-2018, in 2020, will not be able to withstand 3.5% and we would suggest you, because you say that debt is not a problem, it is competitiveness, to get us to even 2.5%, and this 1% to give it to improve competitiveness, by lowering taxes and tax contributions. I'm saying this because I think we're at the end of a marathon. I want to believe that this marathon will end definitively and irrevocably. But I would like to point out two points. One is that I have listened with great respect to Mr Skreka to talk about historical moments that the country lives, to describe them, and indeed, I am surprised that he has almost reached the thresholds of the exaggeration. I share that view. Indeed, the moments are historical, because the country is changing its Rotas. And he found out why the Prime Minister at these moments goes to Fidel Castro's funeral. I am not left, nor do I need left labels, but I would like to remind you that this man's print is a global print, whether he agrees or disagrees with him. If you want my personal opinion, the Prime Minister did well and went to Havana. But does the Qualifying Opposition really seem to me to be historic moments - which I agree with Mr Skreka - or at times to say elections every day? What does it mean to ask for elections from morning to night? Of course, I have to say that the New Democracy, in the last two weeks, has lowered tons. I'll say good-bye. It's never too late to think, because polarization doesn't help anything without a reason. We all know that these are really historic moments, something will change in the country, because if we succeed in these three steps, we then have the possibility of making corrective moves both in taxation and in taxes and in VAT and in ENPIA and in pensions and everywhere. If it's not 2.7% growth, and it's 1.9% or 1.8%, and that's what we want. The country's changing. As far as the bill is concerned, I would like to praise and welcome the unanimity that existed in Article 24 on mobility for electronic signature. We have had the opportunity since 2001 to enter the electronic signature and nobody has done anything. Critic I hear, I don't listen to plays. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I just need one more minute, Mr President. The Mobility Legislation I was pleased to have been unanimous in this article. All the parties to the democratic arch have voted for it and I welcome it. As I also welcome Article 9, the 'one-stop Service', which, in conjunction with Article 9, gives great potential. I am one of those who will bore me to say that growth and e-government are two identical concepts. I am one of those who will be shouting and screaming that Estonia, a country that did not exist on paper twenty-five years ago, today, because it has made e-government, builds a company electronically in eighteen minutes. As you hear it! In our country it takes two months, more than thirty-three signatures and goes by saying. I don't want to have any more time. I would like to say that we are taking daily steps and more needs to be done. And I appeal. Intensification for no reason helps the country, even in the small surplus club. Because they gave us 3.5% and 4% surplus and told us for many years that debt is sustainable. We're forgetting about this! We're not making mistakes in here. But at the moment we need the support of all the parties to achieve our goal, the low surpluses we want. Because this is the great challenge between the IMF and Siomple, the low surpluses they want since 2018 and that debt is not sustainable. And we claim it! I believe - and I am finishing - that this huge effort he had and internal enemies will end positively! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u314	Thank you, Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos. For five minutes Mrs Theodora Megalo-Economics has the floor now, and she is the last speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today you are bringing us several beneficial arrangements to simplify the process of setting up companies. Of course, we know that this is not your own initiative. It forms part of the necessary preconditions for our partners for a well-considered evaluation. In the current draft law, therefore, we see the intention of an electronic process of setting up businesses. In other words, any potential businessman will submit electronically all the necessary documentation and confirm through the Internet the establishment of his company. In fact, in the bill it refers with great optimism that this will be done either on the daylight or immediately the next day. I am also very pleased that I have read in Article 13 that we are finally allowed to convert a codified company into a heterogeneous company. To date there has been an omission to nr.4072/2012, which, Mr Minister, I had pointed out to you in this question a few months ago. The regulation you bring today finally facilitates hundreds of businesses, which have remained locked in an absurd legislative vacuum. It was also unreasonable that, until now, a company set up by the "one-Stop Service" if a change in its statute was needed, this amendment followed the old slow bureaucratic process. All these time-consuming hindrances have made it difficult and make the lives of a professional more difficult and must finally be overcome. However, this grand project of today's bill precedes the effective interaction of all services relating to the launch of the trade, namely taxes, chambers, social security funds. There is a great deal of hardship on the market at the moment, even for the issue of tax or insurance information. Therefore, the fact that the process of starting a company on the same day is in fact a utopia in our eyes. First of all, you need to complete the electronic platform, try it, train the staff and make connections to the data level of all individual services. But the main question is whether there is a real political will on your part to complete a substantial reform in the area of company association and bureaucracy. This question also concerns not only the current government, but also the office opposition. First of all, the New Democracy was supposed to be a defender of the free market and of entrepreneurship. Why has he done nothing so long to make the investor's life better? Does the complexity of our legislative system favour the individual diseases of the client state? In any case, this draft law is in a very good way in relation to the simplification of the business system. But this alone is not enough. Mr. Chakalotos may tell us that this bill brings growth, but I wish it were that simple. In order for growth to come, it is not only necessary to set up a business quickly and easily, but first of all, it takes the interest of investors to deal with the Greek market. That, of course, means that we need above all political stability. We keep telling you about governments with broad cooperation with technocratic ministers until we get out of the crisis. This proposal is the result of common sense. We also say simplifying the tax system and making it fairer. The operator cannot pay up to 80% of his income on a tax basis. The tax and tax system must be fair and really motivated. This will only be possible if there is simplification of the system and non-discrimination between sectors. The current bill shows us the big issue with the sectoral ruffles that the governments of the past had done. The simplification of procedures as a prerequisite for evaluation is our agreement. We do not want a young entrepreneur to be further troubled in our country and to get involved in unnecessary procedures. But, badly lies, these arrangements are aspirin to carcinoma and carcinoma are the client state and the anxiety with which the Greek society has been embedded for decades. We, as a Centro Association, consider that you too are, of today's government, an accomplice to the uproar of our country, both accomplices and the previous governments of the past decades. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It is time for our country to change its direction democratically and centrally, with real and not polluting dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mrs. Megalo-Economics from the Centro Association. The Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, Mr Spyridon Dannelis, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, since this is the first time I have been addressing you since you took up your duties, I wish you good strength, ironhead and good luck in your difficult work. Ladies and gentlemen, on 5 September 2009 Kostas Karamanlis at the ID said about the new arrangements that his government would bring, to further simplify the procedures for setting up businesses, attributes that the stages for their start-up from 14 to 18 would only take place 4. In the same context, the government of George Papandreou established the "one stop shops" for the establishment of businesses, known as the "one stop shops". These initiatives should also include n.4072/2012 to improve the business environment in the period of the Samara-Venizelos conflict. We note that over the last decade, all governments have been legislating to simplify business procedures, unfortunately not successfully. And I stress, not successfully, since the bureaucracy in Greece looks like the heads of Lernaia Hydra, which one cut and two appear. And there's a self-preservation system that refuses any transformation. The creation of a business, even today, after eight years of crisis and endless discussions, remains an undertaking or for very bold or very desperate. It is clear that the long-term economic crisis has not worked positively to build an even very friendly environment for the business. In many cases the public speech, not only did it not promote the concept of entrepreneurship, but instead it was in direct confrontation with it. Thus, it is no coincidence that even this year Greece plummeted three more positions in the World Bank's ranking as regards ease of business. In particular, it was found in the sixty - eighteenth, first, last year, from the fifty - eighth position of ninety countries. What are the individual indicators that bring us to her no grim position? Start of business, construction permits, electricity, infamous entrepreneurial current, registration of real estate, credit, protection of minority investors. Obviously, it is not surprising that in the first place the World Bank's ranking of convenience for business is confusing a country like New Zealand, but the fact that within the first ten, fifty one positions above us, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, which climbed six positions over last year, really has to concern us overall and collectively. And it is not just FYROM, Albania, Bulgaria and Italy, that is, directly competitive countries, are much higher than we in the relevant classification. The above testifies that our country is rather very unhospitable for business. And how can it not be? In foreign mammoth investment, we have timed in all possible ways and are still running out, exhausting every time margin, reliant on ideologies, ambivalence, illusions, reaching the limits of the prospective investors and, of course, preventing potential futures. The list is too long. We are not tired of constantly mentioning it: Greek, for which we have just recently confessed. The 'COSCO' case and the privatization of the PPA is still a misplaced serial with many incidents. The fourteen regional airports are still pending their completion and the start of their different operation. About the D.C.E.D.A.P.A.P.D., answering trenches of trenches. The day after tomorrow, we don't know if investors are still interested. We'll see about that. In Afantou there we now have the meeting of the deep state with the deep party and the overthrows we have known. And the list doesn't end. We are talking in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy about 2.6 billion, if I remember correctly, of influencing the funds from the implementation of privatisations under way. This year we had a budget of 2.5 billion, and we are finally closing with a single EUR 500 million. All this, of course, is overthrowing and planning and commitments and budgets and carrying costs and weight elsewhere. But where now? It is clear that in this environment, ladies and gentlemen, Greece cannot convince both domestic entrepreneurs and foreign investors it needs more than ever today. And, of course, it must be clear that even though entrepreneurship is difficult and as a concept to many suspicious and demonised in our country, it does, and we do not have any other options. The policy of overtaxation and cuts in wages and pensions has, on the one hand, exhausted any margin of revenue for the public funds, on the other hand it is also short-sighted and, of course, cannot go away. And it must be understood to everyone that the famous sustainability of the debt is obviously a necessary condition for the sustainability of our national economy and for us to stand by and give a sense of stability. However, the production of wealth alone and the subsequent creation of solid jobs makes the treaty capable. Because even the total deletion of debt - and we have said so many times in the course of the crisis - but by perpetuating dependence on credit, we are trapped in a vicious cycle of debt-creating and debt-enlargement or continuously producing new debt. Ladies and gentlemen, another urgent bill. Why was it so urgent? We had to get to nothing but one of the evaluations to agree on things that we seem to have agreed for a long time now. We needed the news and newspaper titles to get a bill for which, as it turns out, opposition - almost all of it - consents. The lack of basic legislative planning prevents us from having the compositions, even where we can achieve them, in order to improve the product of legislation. We all agree that we need to create conditions so that we can talk realistically about environmental friendlyness for healthy entrepreneurship. And none of us, I imagine, is talking about the state-owned entrepreneurship we have lived for decades, but it has collapsed since the state in its bankruptcy cannot support it anymore. However, the hasty way of legislating does not allow for consideration and improvements to be considered, as well as alternative proposals, in order to make the work produced more qualitative. We are, obviously, positive in this bill. We have a problem with certain specific provisions, such as the article to which everyone referred, Article 15 concerning the abolition of GPS in tanker fuels. After many years of another rhetoric and other approaches, I think this could have been solved very differently. Article 23, the former 24, raises questions, because we think it is malicious and thus leaves room for malfunctioning. In addition, it is of course coming to amend a newly adopted article of the Law of August last, L.4412/2016, on public procurement and direct awards. The Ministerial Amendment 771, which concerns the assignment of the job offices' activity, thinks it has a problematic wording and there is room for improvement in order to prevent some malfunctions. While the explanatory statement states that the concession will be allowed only if all the conditions of the contractor’s status are met, this is not clearly defined by the provision itself. Minister, I do not think that the explicit provision that, in the event of a transfer, the issuer must also announce it under the preceding paragraph. Because we believe that this provision is a risk of circumvention in the face of your will. In other words, a person who may qualify for a licence and then under contract to grant it to a person who does not qualify, the person who continues to pursue this profession. I think that with some such improvements there can be a full consensus in individual articles too. I repeat that, in principle, the Potami vote for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr Spyridon Danellis, Parliamentary spokesman from the Potami. The Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks now has the floor, Mr Christos Spirtzis, and then Minister Papadimitriou will be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u319	Mr President, it has been agreed with Mr Kaklamanis after the Minister of State, Mr Papadimitriou, that each of the parliamentary representatives should speak for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u320	That was the deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u321	Good. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u322	I won't be much of a concern to you. These are Articles 31 and 32, which I have come to explain and support. The two articles are essentially a recast of Decree-Law No 49/1968 and paragraphs 1 and 2 of Chapter II of the Ministerial Decision of 1991. Specific provisions repealed by L.3887/2010 are explicitly repealed other provisions repealed by L.4336/2015 and two new amendments introduced following Regulation 1072/2009. In particular, the first relates to the addition of all methods of leasing, in accordance with the Regulation, and the second is the lifting of the transfer ban directly to the customer for lorries of the four tons, where circumvention took place by means of an intermediate 'typical' distorted, if you like, shipping cards or bills. After listening to Mr Dannelly, Mr Dannelly, I would like, whenever you have time - I have said so to the House again - to inform you about private investment. It is often not the public services' fault for delays, but the investors who are delaying their investment, even though these investments were flags of opportunity in the way that the competition took place, at least some of the ones you mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, Minister Christos Spirtzis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u324	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u325	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u326	Minister, I was in a previous debate in plenary, where you referred to the pending Greek investment, but I think that the way in which the administration dealt with all these plans and the loss of time in various phases that could have been shortened certainly brings the delays to the investors' side. Overall, however, I do not go into individual issues, which I may be ignoring. But, in general, I think the climate is that. The climate is disastrous, in the sense that, on the one hand, we realise that it is absolutely necessary to run investment and, on the other hand, there are two thousand problems in terms of time and demand. More generally, I do not think anyone has a good intention of arguing that the climate that prevails and the conditions that exist in the Greek market at present are nothing but a friendly way of dealing with entrepreneurship. So we have a long way to improve things. I think that no one here can question this need. I would point out again that I do not go into individual issues, which are probably the specificities and characteristics of them to create other kinds of loose ends.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u327	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u328	Yes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u329	I'll just talk for a minute. It is really good to have a fruitful dialogue and to see where the system of production is or where the investment or bureaucracy exists, which is not just in our country. However, it is not good to harm our country in this way, without seeing what is happening in the rest of the countries in relation to these procedures, especially when we have no assessment of what is happening in the European and international market. Mr Dannelly, too many times the international and European environment is not the best, as you know, for investment. It's not a question of Greece. It's more a problem than that. You will see that many investors have not taken care of, while they have won the tenders or privatisations, to cut off the amount needed to make these investments progress. I wouldn't say the same thing about other kind of competitions, like the one that happened and has to do with your homeland, the airport in Kastelli, who all expected that there would be no investor, like Triasio, who came out of a temporary broker. There it seems that if we have another logic in the tenders, in the public-private partnerships, and we do not devaluate public-private property, we probably have better results than we had in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u330	All right, thank you. If you have no objection, should the Minister speak, should the Members of Parliament finally speak and, if he wishes, if the Minister add something. The Minister for Economy and Development Mr. Municipality of Papadimitriou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u331	Thank you, Mr President. The first thing I want to say is that the amendment of the Minister of Labour, Mrs Ahtsoglou, I guess I did not sign it. I want to say I accept it. As a Greek foreigner who returns home and when I speak to the international community, and I negotiate on issues that shake the Greek society, such as the debt settlement, I want to speak on behalf of all the Greek people. And that is why I will seek the greatest possible majority in the House. Also, allow me not to take advice on moral lessons. I fully understand the need for political diversification and criticism of the government, but let us not imagine some conspiracy theories, in order to cover old-fashioned tactics. The Government on investment issues, which is my portfolio, will move decisively with transparency and wider social consensus on restoring business in the country, but in conditions of social justice, inclusive and discrimination. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to urge you to vote in favour of the bill, which will help attract investment and improve the functioning of the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u332	Thank you very much to the Minister. Mr Stagioras, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u333	rapporteur, I am Mr President. Thank you. Minister, we have been talking throughout this two day about competitiveness, entrepreneurship, structural changes, which will help entrepreneurship. We should therefore know where we were and where we are. Therefore, as the entity is incorporated into the bill, I will submit the last OECD report of 2016 on structural changes for the period 2011-2014. In the period 2011-2014, Minister, most of the structural changes have been made in Greece from any other country in the world. This is what the 2016 OECD 'Going for Growth' report, the last report this year, says. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What, though, is entrepreneurship today? Overtaxation, state-run payment stop, lack of liquidity. Some evidence has been filed. We have to be precise. They closed down six thousand more businesses this year than last year. This year, for the first time, the closure of enterprises exceeds the opening-up of businesses. I'll submit the relevant table to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Your government, Minister, has increased the public's dues, i.e. the liquidity in business by 62%. We have 62% increase in government debts. He's missing blood from business. I'm filing the relevant table. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And it also creates a new generation of outstanding debts. So how will entrepreneurship go ahead? We are therefore saying and want to contribute and we have done so since yesterday: yes, the forward implementation of structural changes that enhance the competitiveness and competitiveness of the economy and change the mix of fiscal policy in the direction of targeted tax reductions. We should not wait for a change in the medium to long-term budgetary targets to reduce taxation on businesses, as the Minister of Finance said. We must do this immediately using budgetary equivalents. In Article 15, Mr Minister, I asked you, because you have made an oral reference yesterday and today, but there are still in and out of the Chamber there are doubts and doubts, that this oral report of yours should be written in respect of the failure to abolish the GPS's obligation. You haven't done it yet. In Articles 21 and 22, the problems that I mentioned and which exist and are growing. Seventy-four changes no longer exist. It's ninety-nine changes. Other legislative improvements were tabled. And all or enough, if you want, it's not of little importance. They change even the qualifications one has to have in the use of a foreign language. From "First" he went to "Very well". It's radically changing someone's evaluation criterion. As the objections to the organic positions of assistant legal advisers on secondments and transfers have not been lifted. Article 23: We requested his withdrawal. We consider it to be a major issue to withdraw Article 23. I repeat, the suspension of all public contracts over a thousand euros has been foreseen for reasons of transparency with Law 4013/2011. All subsequent Governments and all Laws and Ministerial Decisions by way of last law, L.4281/2014, confirmed this. The decisions on direct awards by most contracting authorities are normally posted throughout this period, with the effect that KIMHIS has more than one million entries in September 2015. Therefore, the recital in the preamble that the provision is made as a result of the non-executive Ministerial Decision on KIMDI. We therefore insist on the withdrawal of this article. Finally, as far as the amendment is concerned, I think the River Parliamentary spokesman also referred to it. I'd like to be a little more specific. In paragraph 3 of Article 99 of Law No 4052/2012 there is an absolute restriction on the activity of the private employment office by a person, whether natural or legal, other than that made in its establishment. The lifting of the restriction, as stated in the explanatory memorandum to the amendment, appears necessary, as I understand it, in the context of wider harmonisation with the provisions of No3919/2011. However, the proposed amendment simply abolishes the restriction, by abolishing the relevant provision, which creates an empty law, Minister. In particular, the provisions of Law 4052/2012 referred to the establishment and operation of the private placement office. Since, as far as is not provided for, it is prohibited, the removal of the prohibition on delegation does not establish a procedure for the award of concessions. In addition, it should be explicitly stated as a legislative requirement that the legal conditions for setting up and operating should be met and in the event of a transfer. The fact that, in the explanatory memorandum, reference is made to compliance with the provisions of Law 4052/2012, does not ensure that the law is circumvented. Therefore, it is proposed on the part of the Officerial Response, otherwise it will vote against the amendment, as legal and indeed more appropriate, that the provision of the amendment be recast: ‘Article 99(3) of Law No 4052/2012 is replaced by the following: the exercise of the private placement office activity and its branch may be assigned to another natural or legal person, provided that the conditions and conditions laid down in the relevant legislation are met’. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u334	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and three educational attendants from the Krokonia High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are now moving on, and I would say that we should first see the special speakers and rapporteurs and then go to parliamentarians and then close them down. Mr. Shahinides has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to this draft law and its first part, to simplify procedures for setting up businesses, we are positive in all twelve articles and vote 'the present'. For the bill as a whole, we are marginal in voting against it and we have explained it. In my speech I told you, Minister, that you should at some point ensure that existing operations continue. It is certainly legitimate that new investments can be made and new businesses can be opened, but in order to be able to maintain existing businesses, you must first and foremost create a stable fiscal framework, which I believe is the alpha and the omega to attract other investors. And I'm judging by myself. If I were an investor or someone who held money, by constantly changing the tax framework over the last few years, Greece would certainly not be an attractive place for some investors when the tax framework is not stable. And the next item is increased taxation in relation to not only the Balkans, but more generally the European Union. Recently, there has also been a meeting with a number of Members from the German Parliament in the Trade Committee, where I said some other things to them, which the European Union will have to adopt at some point, and that is a part in which you can contribute. First of all, there is no protection for products produced within the Member States of the European Union. We import products from third countries. These should be tariffd, as is the case in the United States - from where you have already come and know them much better. Products, which are not produced in the United States, are taxed, dutyed, so that citizens want and can eat primarily the products produced by their home country. As far as the amendment is concerned, the possibility of engaging private places of work to another person other than that established by Law No 4052/2012, which is repealed by this amendment, concerns private offices of employment and is one of the professions that has been released by the Memorandum. The possibility of exercising their activities to a different natural or legal person than that recommended will lead to a further increase in the 'black' labour market phenomena and an increase in irregular operating and defrauding circuits for the most desperate unemployed. We shall vote against the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u336	Thank you. Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos has the floor from the Democratic Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you can see, we have another meeting on your department. We have the bodies for the other bill and at the same time we are here as rapporteurs. In order to be very clear about our position, however, we have done so. We'll vote on them in the articles. Unfortunately, the Minister has not agreed that there should be a change in the oil issue within the article, in which there should be no suspicion from anyone that it is compulsory for everyone, regardless of who costs it. Of course, the Minister is not talking about public procurement. The amount of public contracts that appear in the media are refugee contracts, which the Minister is now coming to cover. We're talking about hundreds of contracts. It is no coincidence that many parties, parties of the extremes, many times when we talk about smuggling or anything, talk about entrepreneurs and are in front of the whole process, but when we talk about fuel smuggling they don't talk. No one's talking about fuel smuggling. I return to the conventions where you did not bring us to tell us, Minister, that the conventions are two and we made a mistake not to post them, because I know they are dozens. You did not have as a teacher, as a new Minister for two days, the courage to say that 'these contracts are five to ten, these are the ones I submit to the House'. Unfortunately, you are covering all the injustices and friends of the government. They also carry your personal stamp, since you have not deposited these contracts. Because you move the head and say 'yes', we, Minister, because these characterize the bill, will vote against it. From there on, I shall refer to the articles, the positive articles, which do not relate to the assessment of articles on smuggling and articles to cover the contracts. The institutions are not asking for it. In other words, the institutions are not asking that the Greek Parliament should not know what the conventions and what issues are. We've been asking you for three days. If that is the case, we will not vote. We shall also vote against the bill on the articles, which we have said are positive, and we shall vote in favour of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. Mr. Emmanuel Synthrakis, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Apostle, the Minister for Rural Development, raised a number of questions about the articles concerning the Ministry of Rural Development, saying half the truth. And whoever says half the truth, obviously doesn't tell the truth. It must not be forgotten by Mr Apostle - and the Government, of course, knows - that the specific articles, Articles 17, 26, 27 and 28, concerning the Ministry of Rural Development, are recommendations of OECD Toolbox 3 and, in particular, Article 17, where a ministerial decision is amended, which harmonized a European directive on marketing rules. This European directive said about a producer-trader agreement to assess the value of agricultural products to be delivered to the ramp before packaging - standardisation and provided fines for the non-conformity with the price of the product. Farmers know that. So now, with this article, everything is simplified and the only thing to do is to agree on the value of the agricultural product before or after the sorting. Other articles of the same Ministerial Decision, which are relevant, relating to the obligation of a trader to indicate the initial and final price per package, are also amended. It abolishes the anticipated fine of EUR 1000 for infringements and ultimately the problem for the producer remains, i.e. that it gives production and remains unpaid for months. That's not what he's dealing with. In Article 26, although we agree on the abolition of conditions relating to licences for beekeepers, private trucks for up to eight tonnes, due to very low incomes of beekeepers, a joint ministerial decision on the production, marketing, authorisation of biocidal products, which provided for controls, sealing of undertakings, high paradoxes and cheek fines of EUR 1 000 up to EUR 50,000 on the non-compliance with the rules and for frauds. It also abolishes other presidential decrees, other ministerial decisions on the control of the movement of agricultural medicinal products. Article 27 repeals Articles of Law 3955, which refers to the necessary supporting documents for the inclusion in the Single Register of Fruit and Vegetables Traders, the imposition of administrative sanctions, the final removal from the register of those who violate the law, the withdrawal of a guarantee letter following a complaint by a producer for its non-payment on the basis of the agreed prices and payment dates. In other words, it legalises the situation, where merchants pay whenever they want, as much as they want, and whatever the price they want. In Article 28, also Mr Apostle and the Government are not telling the truth, because they amend Law 4152 which has been talking about the obligation for fertiliser production and marketing companies to have a full-time scientist in charge. And not just that. While the law provided for parttime work for very small and small enterprises, it now provides for a contract of subordination, thus flexible forms of employment for workers. That's the first. The second issue concerns Mr. Papadimitriou, the Minister of Economy, in relation to a project that is part of the NSRF, namely the "Capepature School" of Heraklion Crete. There has been mention here in plenary and at other meetings, and Mr Spirtz knows that, who is now absent. In fact, the JRC had asked a question about this school, whose completion has been delayed for eight years. So Mr Spirjis said that it is not his responsibility, so he has also postponed the timely question - it states incompetence - and that it is a matter of the Ministry of Finance, which is yours. One ministry, therefore, throws the ball to the other and in turn throws it to the municipalities and to the periphery. While Mr. Spirtzis said the day before yesterday it is a matter of understanding and error between the two ministries and it will be resolved, the Municipality of Heraklion, which is responsible, has prepared studies and the managing authority of the region returns them. So decide what will happen unless other games are played. And what are these specific games? Are the new models not yet set out, because the conditions for the auction have not yet been defined, i.e. they are bolts and toys between construction groups and you are trying to throw the ball over the municipalities and the region and eventually the students, teachers and parents of the school pay it? Of course, this matter is not just about the construction of a school. There have been too many ESDP projects - thirty I know about the Municipality of Heraklion, tens of thousands of other projects throughout Greece - and it is precisely the result of unconsciousness, you say, but in reality the result of this conflict of interest between the parts of the domestic large capital of construction groups. After all, this has been shown by the whole debate here that any disagreements, whether in voting or in the reserve for this bill, have nothing to do with the essence of the liberalisation of the OECD toolbox, where you drink water in the name of competitiveness and entrepreneurship, but reflect a conflict of parts of the domestic capital that is expressed in the vote here as well for this bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Mr. Synthraki, special speaker of the JRC. Mr George Amyras has the floor, a special speaker from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed as thoroughly as possible within a day as how the businesses being set up will be facilitated... You know what? I'm explaining why I'm cheating. I am in four committees and in plenary. The Committee on Production and Trade is currently meeting on another issue - the hearing of operators on economic activity - by means of the urgency procedure. Your bill is under the urgency procedure. If that's a good piece of legislation, then what do we say? So I say that with this draft law you make a good one and you drag two bad ones together. What's the good thing? That you at last open your eyes mainly to your SYRIZA partners and tell them that "the OECD toolbox, which we have been rocking for so many years, is not just good, but we are incorporating it into national policy". A hundred regulations from the proposed two hundred and fifty-six OECD are incorporated by the Government in the legislative procedure. What's the good thing? That you're finally breaking some taboo - although you didn't come out to bronto-voice - that unjustly upset Greek society. Yes, we need a young man, a new scientist, or a new businessman to be able to open a physico-therapist, as I told you, in Petralonas in his father's apartment, yes, to be able to make transfers with his father's truck.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u342	That's not what he's saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u343	I know, but what are you guys doing here? What are you telling us? The two wrong and bad: you tell us that we are going to take a gigantic step backwards by no longer posting direct awards, direct public procurement in the electronic register of public contracts. And tell me as a professor - you were in America at a college if I'm not mistaken, or university professor - what would you teach your students, your students? That a favoured state or company should hide from the citizens - the government and the State - or from the shareholders - the company - direct awards? Where is the legislative control then in the House? He's going for a walk. So that is one wrong thing, which is Article 23, and of course we will vote against. And the second is Article 15. Why not necessarily GPS in tankers throughout the fuel handling and transport chain? So you will face the smuggling fuel, which you - I mean, the government - have you told us that the revenue foregone for the Greek state is about EUR 5 billion per year? And you said before that you were responsible and will do anything for investment in the country. If the Sheikh - I don't know who - of Abu Dhabi wants to make a refinery in Greece, won't he ask you, "Tell me, Minister, smuggling fuels are moving in this country? Shall I come and make the investment?"? What are you going to tell him? Will you tell him "it's not my responsibility"? Or you'll tell him, "Don't worry, we told the truck drivers, we told the mosques, we told the refinery on a voluntary basis, so that if the fuel from free is finally smuggled, what can we do? This is life!" It's not about life, it's about the bad legacy and the ideas you're still carrying as a government. We shall therefore be voting in favour of the draft law other than the articles I mentioned with the wish, at last, that this government ceases to be unrealistic and what it says and what it does for once in its two years of history to listen to the real need for the real economy and society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Mr. Lazarides has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to say two words. The Independent Greeks support this bill, because at last this framework comes in which it modernises and simplifys the procedures for the establishment of businesses. On whether this bill is in the right direction, the representatives of the bodies themselves, who were all positive about the bill yesterday, gave it to us. And if, in any case, things were working well with the former regime, why was the whole problem around the corner, namely the business circle and everything else? Why, the pluralism was a unknown word? Isn't that what everyone was saying? I, as an engineer, who has been active and was constantly in direct contact, constantly with public services, etc., believe that the greatest problem, the greatest pathogenicity, was pluralism. The bill even mentions it here and tackles it. We therefore support the bill as a whole and in principle. Finally, I would also like to refer to Rule 25, which I mentioned yesterday. I asked the Minister to include ELVO's dismissals as well as those who were retired in 2010. Another sin that comes from the past! In 2010, SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks did not rule. And imagine it's been so many years, they've been ruling since 2010. Until they left the government it spent five years and did not see to it that this injustice was restored. I now call for these people to be included in order to restore injustice, which, as I have said, comes from the past. My request was supported by other colleagues, and Alexandros Triantafyllidis, who asked SYRIZA for it, and Potami also requested it, and the Central Association, all colleagues, but none of them, from the New Democracy and the PASOK did. This is where I close. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u346	We, too, thank Mr Lazarides, special speaker of the Independent Greeks. Mr Katsis has the floor from the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u347	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to a few things that have been heard by the rapporteurs and special speakers, I just want half a minute to clear up three issues. With regard to the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Labour and what the New Democracy and the Potami requested with regard to restrictions, we say: The restrictions on the issuer need not be repeated, as they exist in Article 104(1) of Law 4052/2012. So it would be an excess of a reprint. Secondly, with regard to the issue of the compulsory use of geographical location IT systems, the GPS, on tankers, I note that the existing provision does not change. It remains compulsory to apply and use GPS for tankers. What is changing - and I stress it again to hear it once again - is who is obliged to bear the costs of installing this system. Looks like some people are deaf and trying to charge us spots that don't exist. The third and final issue concerns the issue of public procurement. I say this again: the matter of the system of direct awards, Mr Amyras, I think you raised it very high. Until August it was the legitimate way of awarding public works or even other contracts directly to friends, whether it was central authority, local government, or a thousand other parties. This changed in the summer, and the law said that there is the registry and, if someone gets a direct assignment of work from an agency, for a year he can't get back from this agency. That's what we legislated. So you cannot tell us that we are the ones who continue direct assignments. What we are doing is in the midst of implementing the new law, which was passed in August and until the computer system is fully in operation, so that the supply can go up - to say it, to do so, to do it in the world - and to see who gets it and who doesn't get it and who comes out of the system, to solve some problems. This serves if you even ask small municipalities in the region, such as in my own area, the Municipality of Philiattes or the Municipality of Sulio, who cannot use the direct assignment for some very small projects or in the event of floods etc. This will be solved because we are determined to move on to the issue of 'GENERAL', in any case, and to post the Internet and break the status of direct awards. However, we cannot close our eyes and existent problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mario Katsi. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Constantine Javarra, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u349	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have just heard the Minister addressed to the House saying that he does not receive moral lessons from anyone. Your right, Minister. It is your right not to take moral lessons. You must, however, be aware that anyone in a ruled state who exercises democratic office and is accountable, in his attitude, to give lessons of reason and morality. Of course, we're all obliged, because we're judging, to satisfy what Cad has called a categorical order. We must all ensure that our behaviour is such that it obeys a general rule of common acceptance. So we of you today expected you to give us moral lessons and we are still waiting for it. Because since you come to the House, here that exercises popular sovereignty and addressing the Members, you say that you do not receive moral lessons, but you cannot get rid of the obligation to teach morals to us. So that is what we are talking about here. They have from all the dialogue that has taken place, which is literally concentrated on two points. The first point is the publication of all contracts awarded by the State for the execution of public works, for the supply of goods and services, which in Article 23 essentially hide them from the eyes of the people, i.e. you exclude them from the "transparency" system, which is the key factor in public morality. Because as far as Transparency is concerned, at least from the United States coming, you know better than I do that the system of open governance has been shaped or, as you say, OPG. Here, therefore, is a huge issue, because my colleague here too has failed to say - perhaps he is ignoring it, we will remind him - that a system of transparency in the contracts thus drawn up with a delegation to Greece has been in place since 2010, in a series of legislation. Indeed, what was done by Law 4412, which incorporated the two European directives into law, on 24 and 25, if I am not wrong, in 2014, is to create a central electronic register of public procurement. And that's exactly what the government has to publish, post the particulars. However, while this register should have been adopted for the specific contracts, you are here today in Parliament and you say, there is no sanction, because these conventions have not been published, because there is no law in place. Unfavourable law does not exist literally, because the government has simply slipped to adopt the joint ministerial decision. So this is a fact. We can't let it go. The products are not to be removed. However, what you can do to teach us morally is to make public, in the way published by the old - party, as you told us. You made a distinction between neo-partners, whom you, your master, and old-fashioned parties obviously represent. So we old-fashioned people from 2010 and after that we published them. You do the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u350	They're all in "GENERAL"!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u351	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u352	Don't interrupt me. And now a second issue. We have asked you to dismantle a error, which is indeed dominating throughout the entire dialogue. You have a duty to do this. You don't have a legal obligation. You have a moral obligation. And what is that obligation? You have an obligation to tell us that you are, in fact, still a fighter and an enemy of the smuggling of liquid fuels and that this government is still committed to the mandatory operation of the geographical tracking system in every tanker. Finally, you will have to take responsibility at some point for the implementation of this measure. That's what we're asking. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u353	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Javarra. Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Independence Mr. Andreas Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have heard your denology. You said you were the Minister of Investment, that you would give yourself and that you would try too much to get good results. You know, I have an experience in the Greek Parliament, when I am in the opposition, and I have some responsibilities, to observe the action of the ministers making such statements or setting timetables. For example, I watched Mr. Vitsa's report on the Hellenic Defence Systems. I listened patiently to parliamentary control. Until she practically closed the company, because her money was seized the other day, and she arranged for her staff to be transferred to the public. I watched Mr Marda, eight months Deputy Minister of State at the Ministry of Finance, becoming Minister of Foreign Affairs, coming in October last year and setting a six-month deadline to improve the climate of investment and say that he will, within the framework of the international economic framework. Mr. Mardas has changed Ministry. And in this context, the one that had been mentioned at the time, not only six months, but one year later, nothing has happened at all. You now take responsibility, however much in terms of competence you may not be the sole responsible person. You're responsible for all the investments. The Greek, let's say, which is the gigantic investment and which if you hadn't come to us, as SYRIZA, would have started work, was delayed about a year and a half to improve, as you claim, the contract in question. And while we arrived at the cumulative year 2016-September or October, I do not remember exactly - that Parliament should vote for ratification of the agreement and vote in favour of it, we read that there are new months' delays. In view of the fact that half the government does not want this investment - and I wonder why - and with the information on a day-to-day basis, from the press, and not from some other sources, that there are new issues that delay the investment, and the additional one, which I would like to know very well, that there is a need for presiding decrees - and I can tell you from a diligent Minister and assent government how many months they want, and from an unpaid Minister and ministers, how many other months they want - it appears that this investment will have to go away and will not have begun. We will ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Chakaloto, for these delays. From now on it is yours, regardless of how internal government activities and responsibilities are being structured. Finally, to close, as far as the draft law is concerned, and Mr Constantinople and I have made many references. We are voting against it in principle. In the political climate surrounding your efforts, however, you always take into account that the main role is the issue of political stability, a political stability that you crushed in January and December 2015, twice with multiple elections. Yesterday, Mr. Tsakalotos, addressing the Greek people, spoke about June 2015. Do you know what that means, Minister? In 2016 we end and enter 2017 and it is known that in 2019 we have regional, municipal and European elections and at the beginning of 2020 we have an election for the President of the Republic. If, at the end of 2016, the Minister of Finance, by addressing the Greek people, tells him that we are "living days of June 2015", do you realize what message he sends to investors? Do you understand what you're doing? Are you aware of the consequences of your speech? Days of June 2015? Referendum and capital control days; We've been living these days? Composition of problems that make the Prime Minister speak alone about elections and your poor media MPs say in the next few days that whoever talks about elections is irresponsible, while the Prime Minister spoke first? Well, look, I don't know how much rubbish your skill bag catches to set up your responsibilities in a proper way and subdue your choices to bureaucracy. But I know that the environment around you is the most unfavourable for policies that would lead to investment. Do wonders, do what you can. But you should know that before you blink your eyes you will be Born of 2017. Before you blink your eyes the House will be closed, we will have gone on a Christmas vacation, it will be Birthday of 2017 and you will have three months in this chair. Consider what your time margins are and tell your next appearance in the House what you intend to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u355	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr. Big-fashioned, have you asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u356	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u357	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, Mr President. I won't get tired. After all, we also have to attend a committee which, because of your bad planning, coincides with the plenary. I would like to say that, as we have said in committee and in plenary today, we are positive at the outset for the bill you are bringing us, as it solves problems and heals wounds that have been created for years, regardless of the fact that we believe you should have brought it from the first time you have taken over. We shall, however, raise a few objections and vote against some articles afterwards. We also want to draw attention and say that we will be here to check if you stick to the timetable and if the "Oncest Services" finally apply and start operating from March 2017. I will give you some examples of some articles which we will not vote on, such as Article 15, which concerns the notorious GPS, because we have not been convinced that it was only the cost. If no solution is found, for example, the truck driver does not want to install himself at his own expense GPS and the oil tanker itself, who will install it? You say that with a joint ministerial decision, this will be resolved. Why don't you bring it today, there's absolutely no objection? Nor will we be voting in favour of Article 22, which we shall vote against why? Because it expresses the curiosity with which you are legislating, unfortunately. You're one and a half, close to two years of government, and you should learn to do so. The grace period has passed. We will also vote against Article 23, which deals with contracts, because we believe that everything must come to transparency. Even the smallest amount the citizen should know where it is available. It is our firm position that everything should be done properly and to know where the last cent is going and not to be in an unpleasant position. And other problems exist, which can be solved by e-government, such as saying the Minister that we do not know where the civil servants are, what objects they have, etc. I don't want to tire this House. In principle, therefore, we say 'yes' and we shall be placed in the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u359	Very good, Mr. Big-fashioned. I think there is no other speaker. Minister, I do not know if you want to say something or move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u360	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u361	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, the articles and the amendment of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development is adjourned: 'Simply procedures for setting up undertakings, lifting regulatory barriers to competition and other provisions' and entering into their vote. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u362	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u363	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u364	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u365	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u366	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u370	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘Simply procedures for setting up undertakings, removing regulatory barriers to competition and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u371	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u373	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u375	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u379	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u381	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u382	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u384	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u388	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u389	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u391	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u393	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u395	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u396	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u397	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u398	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u399	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u400	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u401	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u402	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u403	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u404	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u405	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u406	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u407	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u408	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u409	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u410	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u411	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u413	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u414	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u415	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u416	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u418	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u420	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u421	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u423	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u424	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u425	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u426	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u427	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u429	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u430	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u431	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u432	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u433	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u434	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u435	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u436	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u438	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u440	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u441	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u442	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u444	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u445	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u446	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u447	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u449	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u450	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u451	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u452	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u453	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u454	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u455	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u456	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u459	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u460	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u461	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u463	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u464	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u465	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u467	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u468	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u469	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u472	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u473	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u474	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u477	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u478	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u481	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u483	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u484	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u485	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u486	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u487	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u490	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u492	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u495	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u496	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u498	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u499	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u500	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u502	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u503	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u504	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u505	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u508	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u510	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u512	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u513	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u514	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u519	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u521	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u522	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u523	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u526	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u527	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u528	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u532	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u533	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u534	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u535	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u536	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u537	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u538	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u540	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u541	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u542	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u544	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u546	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u547	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u548	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u549	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u550	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 21 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u551	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u552	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u553	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u555	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u557	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u559	Article 21 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 22 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u560	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u561	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u562	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u563	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u564	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u565	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u566	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u567	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u568	Article 22 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u569	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u570	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u571	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u572	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u573	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u574	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u575	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u576	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u577	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u578	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u579	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u580	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u581	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u582	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u583	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u584	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u585	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u586	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u587	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u588	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u589	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u590	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u591	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u592	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u593	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u594	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u595	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u596	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u597	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u598	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u599	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u600	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u602	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u603	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u604	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u605	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u607	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u609	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u610	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u611	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u612	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u613	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u615	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u616	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u617	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u618	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u620	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u621	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u622	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u623	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u624	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u625	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u626	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u627	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u628	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u629	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u630	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u631	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u632	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u633	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u634	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u636	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u637	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u638	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u639	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u640	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u641	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u642	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u643	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u644	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u645	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u647	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u648	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u649	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 32 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u650	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u651	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u652	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u653	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u654	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u655	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u656	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u657	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u658	Article 32 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u659	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u660	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u661	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u663	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u665	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u666	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u667	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 778 and a special number 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u668	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u669	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u670	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u671	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u672	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u673	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u674	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u675	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u676	Therefore, the amendment under general number 778 and special 1 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u677	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u678	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u679	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u680	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u681	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u683	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u684	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u685	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘Simplification of procedures for setting up undertakings, removing regulatory barriers to competition and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and under Articles. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u686	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u687	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u688	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u689	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u690	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u691	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u692	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u693	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u694	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘Simplification of procedures for setting up undertakings, removing regulatory barriers to competition and other provisions’ has been accepted, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles, amendments and the whole majority, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u695	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u696	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty students and students, as well as three teachers attending the 2nd Nafpaktos High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] But I must tell you that you have come to the end of the vote. We have discussed the bill of the Ministry of Economy and Development and voted for one - one of his articles. Now we're at the end. I hope you will come back another time and have the opportunity to follow up the legislative process further. We'd like to see you again. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-29-S1-commons.u697	With the consent of the House at 16.55 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 30 November 2016 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's legislative work: according to the agenda distributed.
