ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Emergency provisions for the implementation of the budgetary objectives and structural reforms and other provisions'. Before I give the floor to Mr Scandalides, who is the first in the list of speakers for today, I would like to inform you that the three cycles were completed with the speakers appointed by the parties. We've reached the 50th number on the list. They are missing to complete some eighty speakers. Secondly, I see the list of ministers here. It's to speak seven Ministers. This means that at least five Members will speak and one Minister will be able to proceed with the list of Members. I wish we could run him down, but at this rate a number of colleagues will speak. I would like to suggest to you - and I am referring above all to my fellow Members, not to the Members of Parliament, who are in the House - that if we want to speak as many Members as possible, the seven minutes should become five, of course, to a relative tolerance. [[Noise in the Chamber]] There'll be a tolerance. I propose this, so as to speak as many colleagues as possible. I would like to inform you that a request for a roll-call vote has been submitted for ninety articles of the Golden Dawn bill. I would therefore like to ask the other parties to submit a roll-call motion by 12 noon and to make it easier for them to prepare the list on which the roll-call vote will take place late this afternoon.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, has the vote been set at about what time will the vote begin?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u3	I expressed yesterday the decision - by a majority - of course - of the Conference of Presidents, according to which the speakers will end this afternoon and we will start the roll-call vote. The request, therefore, is that those parties who wish to apply for a roll-call vote, have asked us to have the request by 12 noon and on what articles, so that if they coincide with articles, the agency does not write different lists, to make a single one, because you realise that the roll-call vote for ninety articles is problematic in itself. So we should do our job as best. The ministers who are written for today will speak for seven minutes and, as I said, five colleagues will speak and then one minister will not ruin the series. Mr. Scandalides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u5	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. It has been said yesterday that in an amendment concerning the 'freezing' of maturities in the mandates, which relates to a reduction of 118 million, there are no signatures by the Member States, namely Mr Kammenos, Mr Toska and others. ........................................ Because I have been informed by leaks that Mr Tsipras called on the co-legislative ministers to find equivalent, I would like to ask the Minister present: will this amendment be withdrawn and other taxes will come before the time of the vote? This also has a formal and substantial character, because you must give us the floor, at least for a second time, to place us on the newly introduced provisions. That is what I wanted to say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u7	Mr Koutskoukos, let me begin by reminding you that the amendment has been voted on in committee and is embedded in the committee's report. So any change made by the Government will be made to the article incorporated in the committee's report. It is a mistake to hear on radios this morning that the amendment has not been voted on. The amendment has been voted on. On the substance, however, Mr Chakalotos, who is here, at some point I imagine he will inform us whether or not the article will be amended if the article is withdrawn. You are right, that is, but not to say that the amendment has not been voted on. The amendment was adopted by the two parties. Mr. Scandalidis, you have the floor. After you opened the meeting, you celebrated yesterday, you are an old colleague, I will give you five minutes but I will leave you seven. [[Noise in the Chamber]] They're also years old friends. But I say it clearly, so half of the sin is gone. Here, Mr. Scandalides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u8	I haven't intervened, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u9	No, I have to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, as you will be aware, I do not often take the floor in this House. I want you to believe that I do so with a full sense of my debt and responsibility as a national representative. I do not even feel much inspiring about the way we serve politics at the most critical moment of the post-government path that the country is today. I do not understand fanaticism, the sculpture for the past, the dialcystinda for the present, the ignorance of the future. I do not understand the enthusiasm of an opportune majority, which reads reality through a broken and deformed mirror, baptizing meat, fish, and going undividedly. You know that, in agreements far less painfully, the fact that I represent, which is being swept away today, was voting with a full sense of its inability to draw up a different path than that of the memoranda. I am not forgetting the justified explosion of the President of my resignation, when he said in this Chamber that: "For once again I feel that you should take my vote in good order." This climate today, I don't see it. Is he ignorant? Is it fatalism? Is that a resignation of all resistance? Whatever it is, it doesn't bode well for the place. You will ask me - and you are quite right - why I am taking the floor today. Today I take the floor, because the new agreement is overriding. It is not a mere continuation of the memorials, it is not another step in the assignment of part of national sovereignty. It is a treaty of resignation of the country from its inalienable right to self-determination. Under other circumstances, a dependency regime will be completed for the first time after the transfer, no longer at a political and military level, but at an economic level. Why, ladies and gentlemen, what other than a country's resignation treaty, is the assignment of the entire public property to a fund which only operates with the consent of lenders, manages, decides, circumvents and judges? Why other than the country's resignation treaty, is accepting that it will live from now on for many years under the permanent memorandum, when budgetary and income policy will be overdetermined by the cutter? Why other than a country's resignation treaty, does it recommend the removal from the government of the power to collect public revenue and its performance to an independent and controlled authority, thereby handing over the hard core of state management? With the resignation treaty, we move from the monitoring stage and the committee to the place where creditors are present. The lenders won't monitor the privatisations. They'll be in control. They will not discuss the limits of the reduction of wages and pensions. They'll make up their minds. They will not impose terms and frameworks on the management of public property, but they will design and execute it. The magical phrase is a pretext: 'With the assent'. If we are to rule with their assent, they will not rule with our assent. That is precisely the political content of this agreement. I would like to ask the majority Members a question: you are pleased about the epic negotiations that the previous governments did not have and simply accepted the orders. A tough, long-term, heroic negotiation is always judged by the result, what prevented what he won. Does it not concern you much more than that you have come to the vote on the entire timeliness of the lenders and indeed in its tougher form? The non-prescribed, milk, the abolition of CSR, VAT on the islands, the double increase in VAT, the new reduction in pensions, tax incursion. One by one of the measures you denounced in their lighter version, now someone cursed you to apply it all and further to abandoning every tingling that we had with nails and teeth. The worst of all is the attempt, this policy, to put on the ideological wrapping of a left-wing governance. Of course you would understand the distance that separates a left coding that does not run away from reality, from a truly ruler Left. You have somehow suffered a personality split, evident in the way you support government choices. Irrespective of the political economy lessons we heard from yesterday about Marxism, about the first Pulitzer courses and all the lessons you analysed here between the JRC, the Government and Mr Tsakalotos, who, with praiseworthy efforts, was trying to argue in Marxism, the irreversible reality says that the resignation treaty brings the institutions of representation apart from national sovereignty. The House shall waive any right to review economic policy. State budgets are not only subject to control, but on basic lines they are designed outside the constitutional requirements. Instead of being transferred to the following levels, decisions are concentrated on uncontrolled democratic centres. So there is a major problem with democracy. Is there another way? Every time I feel like it's getting tighter. Every time we cross here vaguely, I feel that the possibilities are limited to showing something new, to give a hope that has a tangible potential for the people and to trust that something will change in their lives. I want to remind you of what I have said again in the House, the saying of Annivas when they could not find the way to Rome: 'When we cannot find the way, we will create it'. I would like, therefore, to conclude - and thank you, Mr President, for your kindness - to make a personal appeal to the Prime Minister whose steps I have been following since he started his public road with great interest. Dear Prime Minister, now that you close as you do at a huge cost for the country, a dramatic and nationally harmful assessment, you have a personal debt. He finally believed in the only truth that can open a path of hope. A people united may demand and win. But a people divided can only beg and lose. It went beyond the scope of an awkward party, which in any case has nothing to do with what we knew. It even surpassed the length of a generation. Even now, pick up the pieces and the legends of the country. He united the political world he believes in Europe and struggles for Greece around the national objective, to find a compass and a path that will lead to the clearing of the country. Otherwise, I am very afraid that the story will end with you - and this may be a little interesting - and the country will be brought to another tragedy, which will be paid for many years - the next generations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. Because Mr. Theocharopoulos next is from the same party, I will place Mr. Katsiki who did not speak yesterday, as he had asked not to speak. After Mr. Katsikis, Mr. Theocharopoulos, Mr. Charakopoulos, Mr. Arvanitides, Mr. Constantopoulos, who also pre-empted and Mr. Mavrotas, will speak in turn. Mrs Fotiou will speak and then the next colleagues - for them to know their time too - are Mr Andrianos, Mr Vlachos, Mr Kegeroglou, Mr Gatis, Mr Jogakas and Mr Gregos. Mr. Katsiki, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a new Member of Parliament from this Step forward and within this Chamber I lend your wisdom and your experience and try to take as much political action as possible, clearer, more objective and honestly speaking. However, I note that there is an attempt to distort the truth and abuse of reality, as it is presented through speeches by colleagues who say that today we are faced with a situation of tax raid and tax fraud, when Greece, poor Greece, skeleton and anemic Greece, has a place inside and abroad through the repetitive policies of the past, through real tax raids that it has experienced and experienced. Ladies and gentlemen, I will refer to times when the increases in the tax rates for food and groceries have begun. For example, in 2009, the VAT rate was 9% for food and 19% for other grocery stores, in the fourth of 2010, the VAT rate for food increased from 9% to 10% and for grocery stores from 19% to 20%. In the seventh of 2010, the VAT rate for food increased from 10% to 11% and for groceries from 20% to 21%. In the first of 2011, the VAT rate for food increased from 11% to 13% and for groceries from 21% to 23%. All this is happening, especially when we receive an economy which creates a debt of about EUR 500,000,000,000. All the financial 'candles' of the insurance funds create today's debt, which cannot be treated as magically by us. On the other hand, you give the impression that you very much appreciate the divine perhaps or magical force that we can have in order to resolve this huge issue of the economic debt, despite the fact that the delay in the negotiation is due to ambitious efforts, so that this negotiation will bring the best result to deal with the Greek debt. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the budgetary adjustment mechanism, the so-called cut-off mechanism, is at issue. I would like to point out here that, in my personal view, this serves the evolution of things as to the fact that the current SYRIZA - ANEL Government is responsible for ensuring and achieving and reducing budgetary targets, so that we do not need, after all, to take measures that are imposed on us, because we have escaped from them. This was done in the past through great comfort of agreement, without much negotiation. At that time, the Greek people were faced with those unbearable measures, which some people today call them "taxpads" and "tax raid". To conclude, Mr President, while respecting the time - I thank you, indeed, for the order you have given me - I shall confine myself to a few general points. Today's bill, despite the fact that a lot has been said here in a little - very converging or diverging - but we are talking about the same things, is a bill of measures agreed last year with the majority of the opposition. These measures to be supported, clearly require economic restructuring and reforms whether they relate to indirect taxes or to areas to be sustainable. In any case, the measures imposed do not affect poor and middle classes, which are the majority of the people - they do not affect poor and middle classes, I repeat - but only a very small percentage. On the other hand, the holders and the occupants may help to cover these measures. Let me make it clear that 87% of employees are not affected, as is 90% of self-employed and 99% of farmers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One minute, Mr President. It is characteristic of the overtax that came with the memorandum, that while in the five years 1999-2004 the total tax paid was EUR 170 billion, in the five years of the Memorandum 2010-2014, the total tax amounted to EUR 237 billion. I repeat, EUR 237 billion! And today we are talking about EUR 1 800 000, which we are calling on to receive in total, EUR 5 400 000 000 over three years, not for 10 billion a year received by the governments of recent years, before the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL. In particular, I would like to focus on the establishment of the new resolution fund for which I have spoken and whose assets will be used up rather than sold out, ladies and gentlemen. The operation of the new fund will generate revenues which will be reimbursed for the first time by 50% in debt and by 50% in growth and investment. I would also like to make a few comments....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u13	Hang up, Mr. Katsiki. I won't leave you any more. Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u14	I would therefore like to refer to the issue of the ESDP and its absorption. It is important and I will close with it, bypassing others I wanted to say, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u15	Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u16	So one thing we have received tough criticisms is the issue of the ESDP. So you anticipated the non-absorption of the NRP 2007-2013 and disproved, as Greece was the first to absorb among the twenty-eight Member States of the European Union, fully carrying out the Public Investment Programme in 2015, putting EUR 6.4 billion into the real economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u17	Please, Mr. Katsiki!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u18	In conclusion, since you are making the point that I should like to close, Mr President, bypassing my speech. Ladies and gentlemen, a well-meaning scholar would observe everything that the media did not show up on the efforts and success of the SYRIZA - ANEL co-existence, as I can quote. Starting the debate on the institutions for debt relief...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Katsiki, please, finish right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u20	I'm done. ...institution of the national pension for all Greeks...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u21	Don't make me regret I offered you. Finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u22	...protection of first home and control of auctions. Finally, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u23	You've said it five times so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u24	I haven't said it five times. For the first time I say things that I cannot complete because of the pressure of too little time. Thank you. I think we need to keep a common patriotic line of coexistence and coexistence, ladies and gentlemen, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u25	Hang up, Mr. Katsiki, please, too, right now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u26	...it's a national matter. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u27	What am I supposed to do with "thank you" when it takes each two and a half minutes longer? The other Members will not speak. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, first of all, we have delivered a list of Members who have tabled amendments to Mr Tsakalotou's list of amendments to see what will be accepted, if any, to inform the House that colleagues will know. Before I give the floor to Mr Theocharopoulos - I apologise - I will give the floor for a minute to Mr Vernardakis to make a legislative improvement, to present it in the Minutes and to be distributed. I will then give the floor for a minute and to Mr Apostleus, to make some legislative improvements as well. Here, Mr. Bernardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna need less than a minute. Two legal improvements I'd like to make. One concerns more realistic restorations to the recommendation of positions for the General Secretariat of Digital Policy and the second, the National Administration Selection Council where it assesses and proposes to the Minister in relation to the definition of the positions of the Secretary-General, three predominant candidates from which the Minister chooses. These two legal improvements are. I'll put them in the Minutes to see them and we'll talk about them later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u29	Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor for one minute, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u30	I'm going to submit a piece of legislation. Refers to Article 65, which lays down the conditions for the definition of a professional farmer. I would ask that he share with his colleagues to see her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u31	Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, on 10 May, after the previous Eurogroup, Mr Tsipras stressed that the cutter, the financial correction mechanism, is a government proposal. You said so yourself, Mr President-in-Office, Mr Katrugale, in an interview with you that it is your own proposal. Yesterday, both Mr Tsipras and Mr Katrugalo were denounced by the Minister of Finance. "It's not our choice mechanism," he said. Dear members of the government, agree to say at least the same. Expose! Close into a room, consult and tell the same lies right now to the Greek people. So from the moment that the Prime Minister is a government proposal, the horizontal measures and the horizontal reduction in expenditure, including wages and pensions, will now have a name: SYRIZA - ANEL. It seems to me, of course, that your partner, your co-pilot, is only interested in this whole situation, from all these overtax measures, are the special wages. Of course you described the party of Independent Greeks this morning. It seems that this strange coexistence with nationalisticism has a solid basis. The triumphs of the government's "superior" negotiation, therefore, followed the Prime Minister's statements that the Greek economy is like a compressed spring. There is now, ladies and gentlemen, the serious possibility not only of launching this spring but of breaking the pressure that the government is exerting on it today with painful consequences for the Greek economy. Do you understand, gentlemen of the government, what are you doing with this bill? Do you understand what it really means to the country and the citizen? Are you considering the consequences of the new tax storm for households, professionals and businesses? Taxes everywhere, charges everywhere. No plan. I am not going to go into the details, to analyse the taxes, because I do not have the time at this time, like what you are doing in HISPIA, to the supplementary ENPIA. As you said - and as you said - yesterday - the revenues remain 2.65 billion, when you said that you would abolish HISPIA and that it is not necessary. At the same time as the SYRIZA - ANEL Government constantly publishes growth, raises taxation on every product and service, dismantling every family budget. Since when are the development you are seeking - as you say - is based on tax raid? Ladies and gentlemen, let's speak frankly. What development are we talking about? How does the government imagine growth coming? With impoverished citizens from irreversible overtaxation? With potential investors, where do they exist, won't they have a market to sell? What development are we talking about when small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is currently looted by direct and indirect taxes? The Minister for Development, of course, Mr Stathakis, probably has another view, ideological, as he said that the countries with the highest tax have the highest investments. It has now been understood by this statement that horizontal overtaxation is a strategy of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and not to confuse things, we are not talking about taxation in countries where taxes are going to social policy, education and health, in particular and targeted. We are talking about this situation here in our country now. You've transferred the public property for ninety-nine years. So long we haven't understood, to be honest, why this famous superstatement is slowing down. Now we get it, ladies and gentlemen. This company that won't belong to the public or public sector, you're giving every public asset. You have attempted to even integrate water and energy and may then have been excluded from the concession following the reactions, but it is certain that they will come back as a follow-up to a failed negotiation. But what about the water? Have you tried to include water, with what this entails and with what we have discussed in previous years on this matter? In accordance with the ratios of members on the Supervisory Board, nothing will be done without the agreement of the partners recommended. This is not even in the dreams of the most extreme neoliberal. That's the reality. The role of the public and our role here in Parliament will now be non-existent. If this does not touch matters of democracy and is not called extreme rights, then what is it? I'm asking. Is that what you agreed on, Mr. Tsipras, in the seventeen-hour negotiations? Because we heard you, gentlemen of the government, talking about the seventeen hours. If so, do not sit on the Eurogroup Tuesday, Mr Chakalote, twenty-four hours in the negotiation because we will lose everything to it! So we need seriousness and a sense of responsibility. You are also introducing the cutter, a mechanism that will be relevant, Mr Katrugale, since pensions, wages and social security benefits are not excluded, and these figures, pensions and salaries. I have heard you say this today. No pensions and wages are excluded, but that is why we must be in this government, because we will not do so within our jurisdiction. Are you serious? Do you want to rule ninety years so he doesn't give? Here are you ruling and enacting laws today and you will tell any government there, which will implement laws that you have voted on, 'we would not do it or we did not want it'? Is that possible? I need seriousness! In all of this, you also have a climate of optimism for public debt. This is where I want to be clear. Try to ensure at least that the November 2012 decision, which speaks clearly about the restructuring of debt with a time-lag and a reduction in interest rates, is taken into account. Then you disagreed and talked about deletion. Was that a fraud or a lie? Just so we know and make it clear to the Greek people. What do you have to say today? The heroic negotiation has all it has achieved is to lead the country to a new painful memorandum - Mr Stournaras mentioned for 86 billion and these are the elements - and to recast the summer agreement, your agreement, signed by you and brought August, that the public debt will follow the November 2012 decision. In the recent Eurogroup we went even further behind this decision. It is no longer mentioned on the basis of this November decision, and of course I could refer to what is written about interest rates and the return of profits from the European Central Bank, which, as they say, are behind this decision. It will therefore be an absolute defeat if you fail to defend this decision at least and to apply it directly to the public debt issue. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that our country is in suffocation and stagnation and delay. With this piece of legislation Greece doesn't turn a page and obviously doesn't see the light of growth. What's going on is he's dragging into the dark without end. That is the reality and we will not allow that to happen. We are reconstructing the great progressive party, the modern centre-left of solutions, which will give solutions away from ideologies, away from deceitful ones, which have been afflicted and, unfortunately, are afflicting our country today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and three educational attendances from the 50th Municipal School of Thessaloniki and the 3rd Municipal School of Argos of Orestorias Kastoria. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also in consultation with the President of Parliament, after a little has gone on the list, they will be given to the rapporteurs and the special speaker a few minutes, if they wish. Mr Maximos Charakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening today in the country's political scene is an unprecedented 'theatre of irrationality'. Since SYRIZA was in power, every time we think we have seen it all and always disproved, because every time he keeps us surprises and always unpleasant. The people who with unforgivable lightness wasted the weeds of division, accusing each other of their opponents as "German germanchos", today, give land and water to the lenders. Of course they tell us they do it with soul pain. The truth is that such cynicism never existed in any of the previous memos. In measures that were milder than what you have brought, there have been Members' protests and pressures on change, there have been resignations of ministers and Members' write-offs. Today he doesn't sweat anyone's ear. Your own concern is power. I listened yesterday to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development rejoicing at the suit of tax and insurance measures that he has taken for farmers, saying that he is not affected by 95% of the agricultural world. Sima, it's the Yanna, Minister. In a few months' time when farmers and farmers are invited to pay increased insurance contributions, when they see subsidies tax from the first euro being taxed, when they pay an increased EMI for parcels and plots, when they do not see a refund on agricultural oil again, when they pay VAT 24% for supplies, and those who still believe you, will land in the harsh reality. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no more unfair taxes than the indirect ones, because they primarily affect the weak. Of course, from the "how many people eat macaroni" by Mr. Friends, when you increased the VAT from 13% to 23% last year, we came to be considered rare, Greeks drinking coffee or beer and smoking. We also heard this from a SYRIZA Member who was trying to convince us that increases in indirect taxes do not affect the majority of the world. You not only tax cigarettes by punishing those who smoke but also electronic cigarettes to those who try to cut it off. I wonder what the next step is. You're going to tax the air we're breathing? You proved you didn't have any programs. Now after the many months of negotiation, you're coming with a trick deal. It increases the ENVY you swore to abolish. It increases VAT to 24%, making Greece a champion in Europe. It increases the tax on petrol - you obviously forgot what you were talking about - and on heating oil. It freezes the special payroll, increases the cost of accommodation in hotels. It punishes those who have a fixed phone with internet or pay-TV. He treats as rich people who have a car. It abolishes the ESS, and indeed retrospectively, because, as SYRIZA Member told us, "those who received it were tax-raisers". And close to them you hand over the public property of the country for a century than a year. You defenders of national dignity! You blamed us for selling silver. What silver? Today, without inhibitions, you yourself hang the label 'we', with a fund that gives Parliament no say and an account to anyone. You who set a fire to the landscapes every time we tried to achieve an investment, a privatization. You are bringing an agreement which is not yet a memorandum but a memorandum - as was well described in the Sunday press - a memorandum of understanding. Because that's the famous cutter. The measures will no longer need to be discussed in the House. Payrolls and pensions will go straight to Protest's bed. The cutter is the heaviest price of SYRIZA's unreliableness - ANEL. Whatever wrapping you can put into the agreeds, the account for the place is silver. As unsurpassed are the tax burdens on everyone, and in particular those still producing, namely small and medium-sized enterprises, professionals and farmers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President, by saying that it is important for the government to stop the candy industry, that the New Democracy, too, agreed, by voting on the third memorandum. We voted on targets. How to achieve the goals, whether to tax or reduce costs, is your choice. You decide. The Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Dombrovskis, said so clearly in his interview with "Kathimerini". Yours is the catastrophic recipe of increased taxes. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, do not have any more delusion. The new measures of the cutter won't get the country out of the crisis. On the contrary, they will lead to even greater recession, which is why we are voting against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u37	What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u38	Today, Fifty-three years have been completed since the death of Lambraki, the EDAS agonist. The whole House today must have a statement to pay tribute to today's anniversary of the murder
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u39	I think there is no objection from anyone. I had been informed since the morning, but I think it might be better to make it at 3 p.m., with more people and the leaders of the parties. I call it a suggestion. I think it's better.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u40	Very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u41	My next colleague, George Arvanitidis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in politics, if you go without a plan, you will go where the wave takes you and usually the wave goes to you, either to know or to rocks. What was the government's record at first? Proud negotiation, tearing up the memorials. Where did we end up? In the worst negotiation award from Harvard, the third unjust and heavier memorandum and an account, which, according to the Governor of the Bank of Greece, reaches 86 billion with the first 12.5 billion already reached in the form of taxes and cuts. The Greek people have to pay this bill. It's a heavy and unsolved account. So you have fallen to me, ladies and gentlemen of the Commodities, and now you are trying to unleash the ship. But let's say, you're doing it and you're stepping up your new account, which is about the famous launch of the Greek economy. How are you gonna do it? Historically no one was able to bring growth with taxes and cutbacks. So what are you doing? You are savagely taxing what moves: 1.8 billion direct and indirect taxes only in this bill, 24% VAT, abolishing the special scheme on the islands, imposing a nightclub on hotels, increasing the rates of HICP for land, homes and business real estate, an increase that will be paid mainly by the Greek region, because there the objective values have not fallen, an increase in taxes on fuel, a change in tax on tax on IX, a tax on beer, wine, coffee, cigarettes, tobacco, the imposition of a tax on fixed telephony, even on the internet - a global prototyping that has not occurred anywhere in the world. You seem to be particularly inventive when it comes to taxes, but unfortunately you have nothing to say in the market that is being devastated, you have nothing to say to the new generation, which is one leg outside the country, you have nothing to say to the productive Greece, to the farmers, to the entrepreneurs, to the free traders, whom you have unfortunately targeted provocatively. In northern Greece, Idomeni is closed two months and you are watching unowned businesses destroy. Since last month the cost of the closed rail line has reached EUR 4 million and I cannot imagine where it is today. With your political actions and omissions you find it difficult instead of facilitating private initiative. Instead of a specific, even short-term, plan to relaunch the economy, you are bringing two more of your own patents to the vote, which clearly proves in the clearest way that the credibility of the Greek Government is unfortunately a species in extinction. No one in and out of the border believes you can even handle the basics. That is why you are conferring powers on the hardest core of the state, namely, the collection of public revenues. You are granting them to an independent authority, which is not subject to any control. This is why you hand over everything to the lenders with the "Greek Participation and Property Company S.A.", the new superstition, which will design everything in their measures, a superstition in which all the decisions will be made with the agreement of the lenders and includes mobile and immovable public property for ninety years. A fund that is not subject to any control and accountability, and if we did not fight as a Democratic Integration with Mr Koutsouko in the committee, you would ask Members to vote without even having brought the list of public undertakings and public participations that are granted. I now come to the famous cutter, the permanent memorial. In order to avoid any doubt that future cuts may meet your parliamentary group's resistance, you are introducing the automatic cut-off of wages and pensions, with which you are bypassing the Greek Parliament and turning it into an advisory and decorative instrument. You have probably forgotten that there are instruments that you could use, such as the Budget Office of the Parliament, which composes the quarterly reports on the progress of the country's budgets. So horizontal cuts to everyone every time you don't make it. Does anyone remember in this Chamber, even once you've done it? Even the regulation for the hundred instalments voted for most of the original beneficiaries. You're making special wages frozen by amendment. With an amendment to the Staff Regulations register, which the House voted a month ago, you are also able to join private sector officials today. We've been telling you. You didn't agree on anything. I'm closing with the loans. You give it all,'red', 'green', business', everything. From the famous “no house in the hands of a banker”, all that remains is protection for one year in first home housing loans up to 140,000 euros. In conclusion, I would like to say that the only way we have left us as a country is by consensus, the way of national responsibility. We need a new social agreement and, gentlemen of the government, follow it before it is too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u43	Mr Mavrotas will now be preceded by Mr Mavrotas, and then Mr Constantopoulos will speak. Mr. Black, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Let's turn the time back. Suppose we were in 2014 and brought in this bill New Democracy and PASOK. Can you imagine the reaction of the MPs of today's Co-population? They would have gone up to the bars, shouting for'sold and German-speaking.' So, what's the difference that turns the flame rhetoric against the country's extinguishing to fanatical advocates of this bill? The difference is hidden in a word. Power. Then you were outside and reacted, now you're in and defended, and that goes backwards for those then defended and now they're reacting. Let's look at the bill, starting with HNPH, "this irrational tax that is not corrected, abolished," the Prime Minister said in the years of his delusion. Be fair. You didn't invent the ENPIA. You, however, won the elections with a flagship of its abolition. Do You Remember? Hope is coming. Unfortunately, hope has also crashed on the subject of HIS. He said Mr. Juliarakis that ENPY stays the same for six million fellow citizens and increases only for five hundred thousand people. There are fewer than five hundred thousand? It's a Thessaloniki. Are these all so much rich? What kind of moral advantage is it, feeding them the abolition of HISPIAN, taking the vote and returning them to a infamous liquidator? Is it a deception or deception of the people who voted for you? And now I remembered the Prime Minister who, in an interview, said: 'I think I should start and keep my promises.' Let's go to the famous article 106. You have devoured Potami throughout the past period as the party of the contractors, and now in Article 106 you are giving them immunity and favourable treatment, implying the Committee on Competition, which, incidentally, only a few days ago, has recommended the investigation of a cartel of contractors in public works. Unfortunately for you, then, the deeds and not the slanders show what the contractor's party is. In Article 170, you are setting up administrative and accounting posts under each Minister and Deputy Minister, as well as sectoral and sectoral secretaries. You will enter a ministry, you will yell, Mr. Secretary, and all of this will come back at undetermined cost on the basis of the General Accounting Office of the State. Secretary-General for Digital Policy. It is right that there should be such a position. But we hope that the Prime Minister will not choose a party friend who enters Maximus, but a man with skilled knowledge on the subject and proven experience. We do not understand what the 1.6 million a year takes, as the General Accounting Report of the State says, when we have worthy civil servants who can serve the new service. Forest maps. A mixed situation where we need to draw a line between the hostage of citizens who are the victims of administrative inconsistency and the arbitraryness of people who build, trespassing forests. But the coup d'état has to shut down once and for all. We therefore expect to see how the famous settlement will be defined, hoping that it will not be this fertile doorway. Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, you decided to choose your own route to the implementation of the summer agreement, ignoring our voices for consultation and composition. Now, now, don't be surprised that we're voting against that we don't put our backs on. When we put our backs in the summer, instead of saying a thank you, you already accused us of being endemic. However, if we thought that what you're bringing is to the good of the country, we'd support them. How can we support the Disease Fund, which has colonial conditions, which are clearly the result of your own unreliability? Because we're getting hammered. One minister says I'm not signin', the other is blocking, the third is in pain, the fourth is crying, the fifth is bleeding. "It is, then, unbeliefable fool" to paraphrase a fashion saying. Speaking of the Emigration Fund, you have also put the OAS in it. The OAS is the crown of our sports facilities and its use should be protected. You also know that property belongs to the Hellenic Olympic Committee and you haven't asked them about it. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we want to be an opposition to the proposal rather than a sterile refusal. We've proved that. Our proposal for less waste and less taxes has been made with specific figures and figures. The recipe for new taxes and new hirings in the public sector is for us, if you were to blame - and quite rightly - for the previous governments that they have become Greece a debt colony, you become a tax colony. Overtaxation to feed a customer system that erods the state and makes it increasingly ineffective. So this multi-brand plan is the extension stamp for your stay in power. Take advantage of this extension, in order to fight and not continue, as you do, the pathogens of the past that have reached us here. This requires a new agreement that goes beyond each other, because it requires wider consensus and compositions. Learn from the past to build the future. We really hope that the lessons of the last seventeen months have made you wiser. The Greeks, however, have made them poorer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Konstantopoulos has the floor, and after Mr. Konstantopoulos, the Minister will take the floor for seven minutes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, the day of reflection for all Greeks today. The government is bringing in a bill that dismantles the economy, takes away the public property and poorens the Greek people. The country chains up for a hundred more than a year. This is the result of the proud negotiation. Negotiation which charges the Greek people 86 billion. Gentlemen of the government, it is true that you hand over the country unconditionally to the lenders. You're creating a superstition to which you're transferring the public property. You're privatizing everything. Who? You, the government 'first time left'. You're charging four generations. You give for ninety years public mobile and real estate to a fund led by the lenders. You sell everything. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen of the government, if you are the same as yourself, who were electorally speaking other things and post-electionally doing other things. We're talking about national submissives, national collapse. The world believed you, and now you've made the hope of terror. I remember, we were talking about 'little PPC' and you were against it. You now oblige PPC to reduce its clientele and production to 50%. You obligate citizens to turn to individuals. It is time for PPC to be privatised in full. This is your consequence. However, you say that these are the last measures. We will of course agree here. Of course we will agree, because you have invented the automatic mechanism of the budgetary adjustment for the budget, the so-called cut. From now on, all the measures will be imposed by a presidential decree and, if they are not adopted in good time, violent adjustments will be made automatically and the cutter will intervene in any divergence of objectives, cutting off natural wages and pensions. Congratulations! You will not bring measures again, Mr Ministers! Of course, a complete disdain for Parliament and for Parliament. This, gentlemen of the government, is called a national humiliation. A lot of questions and questions. Minister, when we created the General Secretariat of Public Income, you were across the street. Now you're creating independent public revenue records. Independent authority in the hardest core of the state is not, of course. We come to tax where you literally tax everything. Direct and indirect taxes affect each family. You impose a residence tax on hotels, beer, coffee, cigarettes, drinks, fixed and mobile phones, pay-TV. You're still imposing taxes on the internet. You're increasing grading taxes to IX, fuel. Remove the 50% reduction of excise duty on the islands. You have promised the support of the pensioners, and even the thirteenth pension, and now you are cutting them off the CSCE and asking them back, of course and retrospectively. You were talking, Minister, about a reduction in VAT. You received him at 13%, you made him 23%, and today you make him 24%. You were talking about abolishing the ENPIA and raising it and now, of course, it also enters the agricultural parcels, a supplementary tax on agricultural parcels, and an increase in the percentage of the agricultural sector from 35% to 50%. So 15% to 20% less farmers. You sell the loans to foreign funds, red, up-to-date, housing, business and consumer. First home loans are sold on foreign funds and even on credits. Here, Minister, I would like your attention. Our proposal is this: Give debtors the opportunity to buy their loans at the price you would sell on foreign funds. The loans to borrowers, therefore, rather than to the crows. In fact, Mr Ministers, you stress that you are suspending the main home auctions by the end of 2017 for loans up to EUR 140,000. But for the next day, nothing. Extreme tomb silence. Ladies and gentlemen, the problems of the country require intervention in the economy and the state with a plan, with a stable tax system, a climate of confidence in investors, incentives for growth that will boost the country's productive reconstruction. No proposal for a reopening of the "I save at home", where thirty thousand families are in the air. You only bring it is material measures, wage cutter, cutter in education, cutter in health. Gentlemen of the government, I have the impression that you're in complete confusion. You put the cutter as a relay in the short-circuit of the economy and thus cause continuous electrical shock to the employees, the retired, the free professionals, the market and society. Mr. Tsipras spoke of delusion. I'm afraid it leads us to a new delusion. These measures and this illusion, of course, ladies and gentlemen, are not going to be voted on. But the truth is relentless. The government has failed miserably. The solution is one and has been expressed by our President, Mrs Gennimata. Government of national responsibility by this House for the dignity of the Greek Parliament, which you stressed in the election and you have forgotten, for the future of the new generation, this new generation that you have actually sold it and sent it abroad, so that there will again be hope and prospects for the country to come out of the deadlock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u47	The Minister has the floor, Mr. Fotou. Until the Minister comes to Stepma, I would like to inform you that the other colleagues following are Mr Andrianos, Mr Vlachos, Mr Gatis, Mr Yoyakas and Mr Gregos. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decision-making tactics undertaken by the New Democracy, in close proximity to Potami and the Centres, with the proposal, obviously, on the universal, that is to say, everyone, has invested in failing to evaluate, so that the government can be forced to resign. Tactics collapsed and you all know it well. However, her criminal fold is well kept and I fear she will last for a long time and I mean the trilogy 'incompetent - liars - you have destroyed the country'. I'm saying it's gonna last long, because when you don't have any counterproposals for nothing, all you have left is data falsification and slander. A symposium made daily propaganda by your friendly mass media, because here, indeed, there is something unprecedented about the place. We have a government, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, without any ideologically friendly media band. It's never happened before. But the same impressive thing is that only three months have elapsed so that the new leader of the Officerial Opposition can refuse his reform profile and now take direction from Samaras, that is to say, to embrace all of his opposition tactics.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u49	Sleep, wake up, you're with Samara!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u50	In this context, however, I will insist on highlighting the importance of the amendment we have tabled for the gradual implementation of the social income of solidarity (CDE). For the extreme poverty that hit our place, not as a naturality but as a result of political austerity and memorialism, you had planned nothing for five years until the end of 2014, where then you wasted 450 million euros in election, giving a single 500 euros in each, not only to those who were in extreme poverty but also to others. Also shortly before you left power, you started the pilot program of guaranteed social income, as you said, to twenty thousand people, which we completed. On the contrary, we have, from the outset, implemented the programme to tackle the humanitarian crisis. Three thousand people with a solidarity card from EUR 70 to EUR 220 a month - not once and then forget them, but monthly - about food. It is a radical measure, unique throughout Europe, which we are now called upon to present as a measure of good practice. Unique measure throughout Europe! He replaced the bags, the coupons and offered basic dignity. Twenty-five thousand families with a rental subsidy of EUR 70 to 220 per month - I stress every month. Reconnect electricity to everyone for free. 300 kW electricity every month for ninety thousand families. And, of course, today, free medicine after the Ministry of Health law for all of them, with zero participation. Free water from HSY. Free food from all of the TEVA. We're giving it to the same people. The experience gained, as well as the evaluation of the pilot project of guaranteed social income in thirteen municipalities - the former - made us wiser to plan the social income of solidarity throughout Greece, which will start from 1-1-2017. His procurer is today, what you will be voting on in a moment. We believe that from 1-1-2017 what we will implement will be about seven hundred thousand fellow citizens and will cost EUR 800-900 million. Today, you will vote for its gradual implementation in thirty municipalities and sixty thousand people for six months, by 31 December, that is. Those of us who are not elected - take care of me, do not leave the rest of the air - will continue to implement the programme to deal with the humanitarian crisis. So you'll see how the surplus money gets place by the end of the year. How will the thirty municipalities be chosen? Two steps. The first: In each region, depending on its population, the number of municipalities is decided between thirty. In other words, there will be another number of municipalities in Attica, and the Ionian Region and so on, depending on their population. Step two. After saying that there will be five or six municipalities from the thirty in Attica, who will be these municipalities? The ones who have three criteria together. Firstly, unemployment rate index, secondly, percentages in the humanitarian crisis response programme and thirdly, percentages in the EIF. These are inconsistent presumptions. As I said before, however, in all the other municipalities we will continue the programme to tackle the humanitarian crisis. The protection net of this minimum protection that we have initiated will not give up at any time. That's our difference. At the same time, we will apply to all primary schools throughout Greece, in the areas most hit by the crisis, the school meals, which we pilot this year to four thousand students in Attica. The institution of the full-day schools, which were enlarged throughout Greece, facilitates us in this project because it will soon prove that not only do we not abolish the entire school, but we are expanding it. In all this, then, the full-time schools at the rate that are in areas with great crisis will give the new school meals. I'm finishing with more details about the CRL. Firstly, the electronic registration platform will be opened in July. He won't be closed again. It's not closing. I mean, whenever within six months a household falls into extreme poverty, it can do... [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I want the two minutes, Mr President, I will not speak again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u51	You won't have two minutes, but go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u52	Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Whenever a household in a semester within six months notice of this - it falls into extreme poverty, it can immediately make an electronic request to join the income. The application will be made by electronic platform with access from his home or from the municipalities, if he cannot, or from the JEPs. Three pillars will be applied at the same time: the first is financial aid. 50% will get a bank card for all the stores, and the other 50% will be in cash. The second pillar will be food aid services, as I said, from the TEVA. Strengthen school meals for children who are in this program. Educational aids from the full day of those in this programme. Reinforcement of medicines free of charge from the Ministry of Health. The third pillar is work. To find jobs at last to those who fall into extreme poverty, to those who are over eighteen and under sixty-five. 10% of the beneficiaries will be integrated into labour integration measures, direct inclusion in the OAED, a personalised programme in the Employment Promotion Centres. All our actions are donating the social economy, social cooperatives and, in particular, those who have members of vulnerable groups, namely prisoners, people with mental deprivation, that is to say the COMCOM.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u53	Madam Minister, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u54	I'm done, Mr. President. Three SOCIETYs today, to understand, cook for the four thousand students of Attica. In this way, we will continue social protection, with a plan, coordinated and solely aimed at integration into labour and society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u55	Because colleagues, having seen the uploaded list, have arranged when they will come to the Chamber to speak, I fear that with this rotation we are making - and it is customary law - someone will not be present and deleted. So we will continue as the list is written, because I see that they have probably calculated their time as they have seen it. It's not their fault, but what should we do? Mr. Andrianos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. In her speech the Minister just now proved once again that hypocrisy is a dominant element of this government's policy. Others cry, others mourn for the measures taken by the Left, others vote for them so that they do not do the work in the Opposition. However, I am sure, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that the Greeks are mourning this political behaviour. And that is why I must remind you that one and a half years ago the members of the current government majority and then the opposition were not hesitant to use even the most extreme rhetoric excesses to assure the Greeks that they would not vote for memorials, they would not abolish the EASA, but instead they would abolish the EASA. A few days ago Government ministers confirmed that they would not increase the sale price of heating and moving oil, that money would be reimbursed to the officials of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies. Today, the same people are coming to support and vote in Parliament for a heavy package of measures containing increases in oil prices, which means increases in transport costs, production costs, increases in the ENPI even for the parcels, and of course, in your dearest tactics, amendments at midnight to freeze wage maturities in the special wages of the Armed Forces and the Security bodies, the doctors of the ESS, the judiciary and the teachers of HSI. Even the famous cutter, for which you are sure you won't have to use it, brought him in an amendment. So if you're so sure it won't apply, why are you bringing him? So what credibility do you assure me of that? Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you, the former private sector-negatives, are coming today to give everything through this excess. You, who called on the previous government not to sign anything that binds the country for the next year, come today to give everything for ninety years. You are going to even give the OASA to this superstition, ignoring that the countryside belongs to the Hellenic Olympic Committee and while we, in cooperation with the Region, initially with Mr. Sgoros and then with Mrs. Dourou, who belongs to your area, have guaranteed the necessary resources to maintain the facilities. For us, ladies and gentlemen, sport is a social asset. For you, gentlemen of the Left, isn't it social good? Ladies and gentlemen, you are talking about social importance and sensitivity to your policy. Is the abolition of the CSCE with the retroactive return from the low-pensions, which some of you suggested to be tax-railers, a policy with sensitivity? The increase in indirect taxes, VAT to 24%, the reduction in tax, the global originality of Internet tax, the fixed telephony tax, which is largely used by older people, is a policy with positive social significance? We hear your ministers talking about economic redistribution policy. It turns out that for you redistribution means a policy of levelling and poverty and not a policy of growth, progress and prosperity of the lower social classes. You, who would support the weak, increase the indirect taxes, which mainly affect and unequal to the most sensitive social groups. With the one-dimensional economic policy of tax raid, you leave no room for breath for society, not for businesses, and especially small and medium-sized enterprises, not for professionals, not for young scientists, nor for farmers or farmers. You are creating a negative environment for all sectors, such as tourism, with constant tax burdens, a sector with a great contribution to the GDP of the country and to tackling unemployment. You assured pharmacists that you would not allow the sale of non-prescribing medicines outside pharmacies and now you are voting on the opposite. The citizens are well aware that, if your own disastrous governance and Mr Varoufakis' haunts, which cost EUR 85 billion, the course of revival, the exit from the crisis and the memoranda would not have been interrupted, and today we would not have spoken of these more fundamental measures - which you yourself admit - which are now bringing to vote, in fact, measures which only actually are to knee more society and the real economy and force even more companies to move their homes out of Greece. However, citizens now know something even worse about you, that you did not even have before 2015, nor do you currently have a development strategic plan for the country and society. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I ask for a minute, as you have given other colleagues. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, more than ever in the seven years of the crisis Greeks and Greeks are well aware that ideologies and class hatred are the last thing the country needs. They know that for the only path leading to the upsurge of society as a whole, to growth, to the creation of new jobs, to the construction of an effective social protection network and to a strong, effective, close to the citizen, a private sector that is not treated as an enemy is needed, namely the opposite of what you advocate and do. That is why we too are voting against this pretentious bill, which brings your signature wide open and wholeheartedly to your responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Vlacho has the floor. Then Mr. Gatis, Mr. Yoyakas, Mr. Gregos. I would like to inform the House that Mr Giokas from the Communist Party, selected to be in the third cycle yesterday, but because of force majeure he did not speak, will follow Mr Gregos. I think we can't deprive him of his word because they were the chosen ones in the circle. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill, it is now clear that the SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence, in order to close the evaluation that, on its own sole responsibility, has delayed for seven months, bringing the account up, once again abolishes its own red lines. He's disgusting even what he said until recently. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, in the two years you have taken on the fate of the country under the pretext of debt reduction, you have done everything. You've made a hundred and eighty-degree turn on what you were saying and of course you've deceived the citizens. Your endless negotiations have cost more than EUR 86 billion, brought us new memos, closed the banks, led to a reduction of funds. That's the truth. That's the reality. But if our fears do not apply, as you will probably say and what you say and get the targets, why do you think that the institutions will consider a debt solution, since it can now be served? And since you are sure of your policy, why are you bringing the automatic financial correction mechanism from which neither wages nor pensions are excluded, which otherwise you claim you want to protect? Things are very simple. Or the objectives set for the primary surpluses are possible - so the programme comes out and serves the debt - or the objectives of the programme are impracticable and the budgetary correction mechanism is activated with any devastating consequences that will ultimately have for the economy. Eventually, unfortunately, single losers. This is the most likely scenario. A few days ago, in the same Chamber, we told you very clearly that you do not have a comprehensive plan, that your policy is without prospects and that you lead the country further to the recession. We told you it needed a change in policy mix. Even European players have suggested that you do not increase taxes but focus on expenditure reductions. They stressed that the expenditure reduction in relation to tax increases would less affect growth. However, you insist on this policy. So the choice is entirely yours and you are solely responsible for these options. And you know that the Greek people can no longer raise any more taxes. His tax ability is now very, very low. A few days ago you increased income tax rates, you reduced pensions. Now increase VAT by directly affecting all households in the country. On the one hand you are shrinking incomes and on the other you are increasing the cost of living. You were talking about abolishing the ENPIA. Not only do you keep him, but you're raising him. You increase the tax on heating oil, thereby bringing a strong blow to the primary sector. Repeat taxes on diesel traffic again at 2011 levels. You put fees everywhere and tax everything. And what's getting away with today with the time you've taken, I'm afraid he won't be getting away with for a long time. After the winemaking industry, you also give a final blow to the brewing industry by increasing almost twice the tax on beer. Mr. Tsakalotos gave us lessons about the difference between HICP and the new fund. Don't hide behind words. You don't use public property, but you sell it, you sell it, I'd say without even knowing what, how much and whom you sell it to. All you know is that you grant for ninety years the management of public property to a company controlled by lenders. Open up the market for red loans, business and non-business, even jeopardizing the protection of the first home. But you're not just standing there, but you're selling the loan. Today, Minister, if a borrower comes to the bank and wants to pay off the balance of his loan, the bank refuses to pay back 50% and then he gives 50%, to come to make a new arrangement for the other 50%, which will actually reach where he was before giving half. That logic should be put to an end if you really want to make brave decisions, if you want not to serve the banks and those who support them and want to help the borrowers. Ladies and gentlemen, the current government in 2014 threatened everyone not to close the evaluation at that time and their only goal was finally to come to power. Today you have taken over the governance of the country, and I would say that it is legitimate to want to take over the governance of the country, but it cannot be an end in itself. You are actually telling us today that your only goal and your only concept is to remain in power. Mr President, time is running out very quickly and we are cutting off the little thoughts that we intended to develop. You understand what it is to be placed within a few minutes for a thousand-page bill. But I want to make a very small reference to the articles on forests. There really is - and I think this is a good thing - the exclusion of certain areas, those called'multiple' areas, which are characterized by the vivid colour of the drawing up of forest maps. This is, of course, only too simple to end unblocking and to promote forest maps. It's a necessity, Minister, and that's where we agree. From there on, though, you come and tell us about densities. Condensations say nothing. It's a new term, you invented it and you haven't explained it to anyone. You're telling us that within a month the Ministry will clarify. When the Ministry clarifys, we will also clarify our final crisis. How do you ask us today to vote on something that you do not know exactly how to clarify? So I would say that we are keeping the positive exception, the choice of these regions, but we have many questions and we have many reservations about the development. I wish the clarifications you will give us, and be in a positive direction, but you will allow us to have some doubts by then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u59	Mrs Fotou has the floor for a minute for a legal intervention, which will then be tabled in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u60	Less than a minute, Mr President. By mistake, two sentences of the kind, one of which must be deleted in paragraph 1 of Article 235. The words 'up to thirty (30) municipalities' are deleted because the words 'to thirty (30) municipalities' have been inserted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Dimitrios Gassis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again these days in the Greek Parliament the substance is sacrificed to the altar of destiny, to the altar of communication, to the altar of seemingly. The opposition strategy is backing up the lie, misinformation and destruction in order to satisfy the justified, I would say, indignation of the citizens, indignation that its own policy has created. Unfortunately, this is the main feature of the parliamentary reason for counter-population. As an oasis to the political desert of counterpopulation, one can describe the speech as well as the final proposal by Mr Scandalidis. We insist, ladies and gentlemen, in fact. We will insist on credibility, development and social cohesion. After all, this is the tripartite, which expresses the logic of the bill that we are debating today in the House. This is a solid, fully documented and comprehensive legislative intervention with arguments. The resolution of the prerequisites, combined with the implementation of the planning of the government project and with significant resources channelled to the real economy, opens up a prospect of growth. At the same time, we need to move on to reform measures aimed at protecting weaker social groups and strengthening the social state. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand the difficulties and complex context within which we are called upon to govern. We see this in a number of the provisions of the bill we are debating today. But we say that we have already achieved a great deal. We have honoured our commitments to the Greek people to the implementation of the August agreement, a difficult political agreement, but we believe - with social benefit at the end. We restored the country's credibility internationally. We have formulated with arguments and determination a roadmap for debt write-down. We put an end to the catastrophe scenarios. Those who bet on the government's failure and the country's destruction have lost. We leave them in their political misery. We are now completing the prerequisites of the agreement and we are preparing, at the same time, a structured programme with an emphasis on investment, extroversion, growth, job creation and the production of income by disbursing resources to ensure the recovery of the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to refer to two specific issues in the bill. Firstly, the issue of abolishing the reduced rates of excise duty on alcohol in the Dodecanese and of the hotel accommodation fee to be applied from 1-1-2018. Positive developments are the prolongation until they are implemented at the beginning of 2018. However, the specific tax arrangements that existed should be reviewed in the context of developments by completing the evaluation with a new approach to the conduct of island policy and the effective adoption of realistic, medium-term and strategic development options of equivalent measures, with a view to achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion for our islands. This is the responsible response to those who have tried to exploit for micro-political purposes issues of island sensitivity, such as indirect taxation in the island country and the abolition of reduced VAT rates. The opposition continues without shame - I would say - to provoke the abolition of reduced rates of VAT in the Dodecanese. None of us can feel any responsibilities. You will allow me to refer to two provisions of L.4336/2015, namely the August agreement, in order to put the things and the attitude of each of us in the real dimensions. In paragraph c, page 1016 relating to tax policy reforms states that the Government commits itself to further reforms as follows: ‘It will clarify that the reduced VAT rates for the islands will be fully abolished by the end of 2016 and will determine transitional provisions’. In Section D2, ‘VAT Code’, on page 962, states: ‘The reductions in VAT rates are phased out from 1-10-2015 to the first group of islands, from 1-6-2016 to the second group of islands and from 1-1-2017 to the other islands’. We have heard here colleagues who have voted to refer to the above words such as 'anti-Cyclades', 'dodecanese farewells'. And we wonder, ladies and gentlemen, did you not realize that we have all voted together? And the reasoning that we voted for the country's salvation is, I think, a bad excuse. Who voted for all this? We voted in favour of the New Democracy, PASOK, the River. We have also voted for them, of course. We do not renounce our responsibilities. Mr Brutsis, who is not here, also voted for them, but is 'the bars' and 'the tiles' today. Do you really not understand what you voted on or today you are looking for the Siloam Fountain for your personal and party attitude? Automatic fiscal adjustment mechanism: As the Minister of Finance pointed out, this is an automatic adjustment mechanism. It is not a question of taking action, and this is a success for us. We are sure that realistic objectives and sound financial management will make the correction mechanism absolutely not necessary. We will disprove those who have betted on destructive and communication rhetoric, and then we will have to go back to today and make a fund. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Furthermore, I think we are all concerned about the effective functioning of the new fund. I would like you to give me a second more, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u63	Yeah, just a minute, though, because I've already given you, like everyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u64	In particular, for our Region it is a challenge and at the same time it is our obligation towards the dodecanese society to focus on integration in the most appropriate and sustainable way of investing Golf Afantos, which I will say below. It is of the utmost importance for tourism in our region. We insist, however, that we follow a project that takes into account the size and complexity of the project, respects the natural environment and the cultural wealth of our island. In this effort, we have an ally and a local society. Unfortunately, various mechanisms have attempted even by using this investment to affect the investment potential followed by the first assessment of the agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Comrade, gather your speech a little bit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u66	Yes, Mr. President. It's three lines. We have fought and continue to fight in a difficult European environment, ladies and gentlemen, which disputes Europe of solidarity. It cancels it and in its place it tries to impose the rule of the mighty, to impose the North on the South. We call for room for action to mitigate the consequences of the memoranda in society. We shall move forward with strength and determination for democracy, for social justice and for the country's survival. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u67	Mr Stathakis wants legislative improvements, not amendments, as he told me, and that's why I told him to wait. I give you the floor to develop them and to table them, so that they can be distributed to colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u68	These are legislative improvements, which are mainly verbal, relating to the General Secretariat for the Management of Private Debt. They correct paragraphs essentially and are references to paragraphs accurately. They are thirty-six and all refer to linguistic diligence, essentially and accurate references to paragraphs, because there were some problems in printing. That's the first. Secondly, it adds a word to the Disciplinary Board procedure of the Competition Committee. the word ‘confidentiality’ shall be inserted next to ‘confidentiality obligation’. The third, to be presented by Mr Paraskevi, relates to Article 106, for the crime. The word'sirrax' goes away and is made more clearly, with the replacement of this word which Mr Paradoxopoulos will better explain, since it concerns a legal dimension.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor for two minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. The regulation concerns the institution of eliminating the outstanding infringements of free competition once fines have been paid. It is well known that the eradication institution is not a neutronism, but it is an ancient institution, which exists in the Criminal Code even on the theft. This provides that if the administrative liability is paid or settled in full by a fine, the criminal offence is eliminated. The previous wording referred to the elimination of sighting and serial crimes. There could be a confusion, because the term'slash' refers both to crimes committed in an act - an act is carried out and possibly related to more than one law - or to crimes committed by more acts, which are something different and additional. In order to avoid this confusion, because in any case the elimination of the risk relates to a single act of infringement of free competition, it has changed the wording and now states that, once the fine has been paid or the exemption has taken place, the offences involved are eliminated by the same infringement and a full exemption is made. This is the new wording, which is simple, which is clear. It is clear that the elimination refers to the same infringement. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u71	I would ask you to put these before them and take a photo and send them to their colleagues so that they can have them in front of them. In particular, the third person may have to read it carefully because it is the article 106 at issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u72	They have already been tabled, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-six students and students and four teachers from the 1st Municipal School of Nea Alikarnassos Heraklion Crete. Welcome to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Yoyakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago we saw the government triumph, because it has launched - supposedly - the closure of the first assessment. I would remind you that this is an assessment which has been delayed at least seven months, depriving the entire national economy of EUR 20 billion in loans. Of course, the government celebrates the pill of a tax marathon that really has no precedent in the years of the memorials. I believe that the citizens who are watching us should be aware of certain truths. They must know that the government has agreed another memorandum, its second one, in less than nine months. It is, in fact, a memorandum of understanding thanks to the permanent cutting point that brings its signature. They must know that there is no specific agreement on the debt, but only general references. Citizens must know that any debt relief does not cancel the dramatic effects of the new austerity measures and we should tell them that this tax raid is a political option for SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence. She chose to put more taxes instead of cutting costs. The Vice-President of the Commission has said so recently. So what is the result? A government, supposedly a left-hand sign, is expensive for everyone's lives, especially the financial weaknesses. This is the heavy price of indirect taxation by increasing VAT on many foods that go daily to a household but also to basic services, such as transport, telecommunications, the increase of excise duty on fuels and heating oil, by imposing an additional ENVIRONMENT on real estate with a total value of more than EUR 200,000 and by increasing tax rates on land. At the same time, the hits are continuing in business, in free trade and in farmers. The latter see all the government's promises to evaporate. The duty-free limit is provided for professional farmers only. A supplementary ENVIRONMENT 1/% is required for the production land belonging to individual undertakings. They are expensive agricultural supplies, since VAT went from 13% to 23%, and now to 24%, but professional IX as well, as they increase the registration fee. In fact, all this adds to the heavy measures brought by the government with the insurance and tax bill for farmers. It is therefore clear, ladies and gentlemen, that these measures go beyond the strengths of society and the economy. They need brave development policies that will serve as a counterweight to the deeper recession that bring tax evasion measures. This can only be done if the government finally decides to govern, move on to those changes that will bring investments, jobs and move the market. You have been cutting off and sewing a new development law for months, which we still wonder whether it will be operational, whether it will be based on enough resources, or whether it will leave out of the whole area in need of investment, as you want to do in the four municipal units of the extreme Thesprotia, Minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Our resignation, the New Democracy, will support those few reforms of the bill that can once again start to move the economy, to relieve the market, to give businesses the opportunity to get back on their feet. This logic should be served by restructuring business loans. However, the New Democracy will not sign a white check for the costs with which this government has charged the country because of its own delays and its own inadequacy, because these costs are all your own government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u75	I want you to see how much thanks you have spoken of and less time. Mr. Antony Gregos has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I heard yesterday the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman talking about a people's mandate - but is it possible to still speak of a people's mandate? - and we'll be back on the path of development. You're telling the same lies New Democracy was talking about. But if you make the mistake of finding yourself on the road, you know very well the way you are. I also saw a few comments on the channels of interlocutory where when they referred to the Golden Dawn and its speakers, they said, "provocative," "holy show." So, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in many, introductory words, the channels of the intermittent, are the shows you present to the Greek people and not the speeches of the Golden Dawn. For this is what the Greek people expect, they expect to hear the speeches of the Members of the Golden Dawn to really know the truth. And the full confirmation is that the Golden Dawn comes out continuously third power in the Greek Parliament. I would also like to wish, from the Step of the House, a good success to the Cypriot rivals who are giving a great and unequal struggle. You talked about Ensign. This tragic situation continues in Idomeni, as in Piraeus, as in Greek. We have told you - we have tabled relevant questions - that at last apply the law and proceed to mass arrests and deportations. Today, a hundred and fifty three SYRIZA and ANEL MPs are voting for and signing a permanent memorandum, as are the predecessors of the New Democracy and PASOK. So you're all charged with all the memos together. I'm going to stand on a few points. You said people are above numbers. Only with your governance, with this bill and the rest, they will be economically exterminated but also biologically thousands of Greek citizens. Firstly, it is suspended from 1-1-2017 to 31-12-2018 every wage maturation and wage promotion of officials and officials paid with special wages - these are mentioned in the amendment - with the Ministers that have been instructed to justify in their accompanying note the contested decision. The provision is deemed necessary for reasons of fiscal adjustment and is proportionate to the two-year, 2017, suspension of wage maturation for civil servants and the wider public sector. The report of the General Accounting Office of the State notes that the proposed arrangement is cost-saving for the State Budget of EUR 118 million for 2017-2018. Secondly, another amendment, which has also been tabled, provides, among other things, for the procedures for the return of the CSCE to be unduly paid by pensioners. In accordance with this arrangement, this refund is made by a netting recalculation of the beneficiary's pension in twelve monthly instalments. Where the monthly instalment exceeds EUR 30, the excess shall be reimbursed net of the pension in equal monthly instalments until December 2018. Listen, gentlemen, the NSA has paid for it by the pensioners. It's their money, and you steal it from them. Shame on you! Really embarrassing! Also, when you reduce supplementary pensions, you overall reduce pensioners' income. The pensioner when he goes to the bank doesn't see where his pension comes from. He doesn't care so much where his pension is from, whether he's from an assistant or he's from a principal. In his pocket a certain amount comes in, and that amount will be reduced. The tourism sector is also critically affected. It will also be critically affected by these measures, with the most important complementar ENPIA. This is a provision - a graceful shot that will bring small and medium-sized businesses and the largest hotel businesses and puts a nest on the neck of the hotel business. There are two documents that have been sent to us. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antony Gregos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The rest of the workers will be hurt. And we're talking about suppliers, advertisers, workers, accountants, etc. Municipal fees: Municipal fees and taxes are paid by local government, exempting the company from payment for Public Benefit Services at the same time as other individuals and businessmen pay in full for sewerage, municipal lighting, biological cleansing, etc. Even if the concessionaire takes care of the collection and collection of waste, it will be exempted from taxes and fees for the sewerage networks and the municipal infrastructure it will use. On page 164 it is foreseen that subcontractors made by its subsidiary 'FRAPORT' do not need public consent. Supplies and equipment: The clause in which the company can buy on behalf of air navigation upgraded equipment and then deduct the costs from the public contribution due. Simplifications: We talked about airports, the airport 'MAKEDONIA'. So, is there a case in Thessaloniki, called "MAKEDONIA", to change that name if foreigners want it? What about the red loans? The previous speakers have said so. Unfortunately, time is too short. I shall end with this: it is very dangerous and tragic that the Greek people consider that the New Democracy, the PASOK and SYRIZA are something different. Let Greeks not make this tragic mistake. It's the same practical party. They have the same ideologies, the same objectives, the same fake program, the same interests, the same policy. They are parties that have the same bosses, parties that are shredded up to the neck in corruption and strife, parties that take orders inside from the canalarchs, Bobola, etc., and abroad from the loan sharks - and not institutions - Shoeble, Lagard. You are servants and trustees of loan sharks, and the people know it very well. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We often call you traitors. I say this, above all, against Thucydides, so that no one gets offended. Unfortunately, I have too much to say, but I can't make it. Currently, the Turks continue to circulate armed in the Aegean. And unfortunately, Mr. Tsipras will go tomorrow to chat with our country's enemy with Erdogan. These plans won't pass! The Golden Dawn will stand across with a clear folk command he has received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u77	Before giving Mr Gioka the floor, he has asked the Minister for Maritime and Island Policy, Mr Theodores Dritsa, for some legislative improvements. Tell them and testify immediately, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. I'm tabling a series of minor legislative improvements. Three - four of them are corrections, based on the observations made by the Scientific Office of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u79	If it's not a substance, say that you're tabling it in the Minutes. Don't waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u80	I'll testify to them in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u81	If it's a substance, explain it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u82	It is an adaptation to the legislation in force and to Article 103 of the current draft law, as the Ministry of Finance introduces it, so that the regulations are compatible and that there are no contradictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u83	Put them in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u84	Mr Ioannis Giokas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is really challenging and outrageous that the propaganda that many government ministers and MPs have been doing all these days - not all of them - to be precise, but most of them - are guarded, but most of them - who are not even too much, that what they say is 'tax-payer', is an exaggeration, that measures are fair, that poor and middle classes are not affected. All this propaganda we heard today. More characteristic is what Mr Juliarakis said that, "We get many of the few and few of the many." [[At this point the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] Are you serious? The 700 euros a year that a four-member family will pay from the indirect taxes, is there little? What will he pay from HISPIAN, increases in first-demand species are little? Plus, he's been paying for all these years, plus what he's going to pay in the coming years. For many of the measures you are taking today, such as privatisation from means of transport to water, the people will live them in the coming years and not directly. And who are you telling all this to? To a popular majority, who not only lack EUR 700 but who lack much more to be able to pay what has been loaded by the previous governments, of which you have not abolished anything, plus all that you have loaded them over the next period, while continuing the same policy. Mercy! Mercy, Lords of the Government, with this deception you're doing to hide a barbaric, deep class policy! Like also, it is deception, it is a lie that you are saying, the closure of the evaluation, the return to a recovery will lead to relief, restoration of the losses to the people. None of this is going to happen. No measure of what has been voted on all these years and today, will be taken back. Because all these measures are the prerequisites for what you call'recovery'. At best, give some crumbs to the most extreme poverty, little compared to what you will have stolen from them, and that is what you are baptizing it and "reliable". We believe that dignity is today for the people, for workers to be able to live on the basis of their modern needs and not for new generations to live worse, with fewer rights than their parents and perhaps their grandparents. And here comes the famous cutter, the memorial tomb, a rift that will blackmail the people in the inappropriate implementation of anti-population policy. So this is the government’s attitude toward many, working class and popular strata. We now come to your stand against the few, making this clear: when we say 'a few', we do not mean the same thing as what you mean. Because you as a few consider the one who gets a pension of over EUR 1,000, whoever has a real estate of more than EUR 200,000, i.e. the people's layers again. The real oligarchy of wealth, capital, business groups, not just touch them, but also support them with facilities, privileges, tax exemptions, to make their investments and to bring the recovery from tax-free natural gas to the industrialists who the people will pay for it, up to the exception of the sums involved in investments, up to the automatic cutter, who will otherwise cut off wages, pensions and social benefits. Just because you are doing this, you have the same support from your partners in the European Union, even from the Association of Greek Industrialists, who also in the insurance and now in the plan said that the measures must be voted on, giving you a valuable hand of assistance. They support you, industrialists, shipowners, regardless of whether a portion of them is criticizing, some old fireplaces, which may feel threatened by new competitors. After all this, after all this policy that you are implementing, it is very logical that New Democracy and PASOK go on tiles and go crazy in the realm of stealing intellectual rights. Party - and in particular the New Democracy - which has, over the years, made privatizations, investment, support for capital, now see them out of service, adopt the same argument, cut privatisation ribbons and get credit from BSE. It's really going crazy! What, of course, they do not know in the New Democracy, Mr Staikoura, is that historically, in the difficult times for the system, always or almost always - so that I am not categorical - dirty work was made by social democracy, such parties that can more easily manipulate the people and give time, if you like, and the opportunity for the genuine parties of the bourgeoisie class to wash away, as they are today, from the New Democracy and the PASOK. This is what SYRIZA has done: engraved the people, created illusions that without conflict with the power of capital and the European Union there may be pro-cultural solutions, leading peoples, workers, defeat and fatalism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. This world must now stand on its feet, organise its struggle and, above all, draw conclusions on what should be the aim of this struggle today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, too. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u87	The possibility of social democracies in Europe to take off situations or do the dirty work, said by my colleague, who came down from the Step and took over by the so-called 'Russian Left'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u88	It's a social democracy too!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u89	Look, Maduro's Left has nothing to do with social democracy. But let's not stand on this. Mr Gaki, if you're going to feel well psychologically, having the illusion or the impression that others are voting for what Mr. Tsipras has signed, let's have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u90	But not playing revolutionaries!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u91	However, under no circumstances do we vote and consent to all these national and social harms that Mr Tsipras has signed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u92	You voted for the VAT.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Gaki, don't interfere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, the history of Greece, from liberation to today, is filled with struggle, hopes, frustrations, sacrifices, small and large victories and defeats, with periods of creation and uplifting, but also with stagnation and regression. These days are seventy-five years from the battle of Crete. The unparalleled example of this struggle for the fairs and ideals of freedom against Nazism has become a symbol for all the peoples and has overthrown the association of powers in favour of the allies, defining the final outcome of World War II. The most important feature of this game, however, is that after the battle in Crete, the Cretans united in the unified and palliative resistance. And then, with national consensus and understanding, they proved that we can move together and did not become involved in the psycho-corruption, but also detrimental to Greece, the Civil War. Ladies and gentlemen, when we did not have divisions and civils, whenever the choices of the people were not wrong, when the minimum spirit of understanding and the minimum planning and targeting - within the international context - when we decided with patriognosis, the country managed and went ahead. On this route of our country history has recorded the contribution of individuals, factors and factions. We are proud of the contribution of the Democratic Party to what was created in modern Greece, to the creation of modern Greece itself. We are, however, very proud of our contribution - which most of us have experienced - to Transmigration, the best period of history for the country and society. PASOK has completed, if you want, the national reconciliation efforts and finally closed the wounds of the Civil War and the post-war period. He went on to reform, created the welfare state, and in particular managed to activate the productive forces that created goods for the citizens and the country. That's how the high standard of living was conquered. The fact is that in the last five, six years of the crisis, the standard of living of the citizens, created in the post-civilisation, has been considerably reduced. But it was kept by the collapse. You of SYRIZA today are developing an equivalent rhetoric, with the aim of distorting reality, but it undermines the very day for which you have the responsibility of governance, and of course it is mined in tomorrow's place. Have you wondered if you have made any contribution to all of this, which is a creation mainly of PASOK's policy over the last forty years and which you are currently conquering? Have you wondered? On the contrary, silencer, hide that your top executives have always been on the edge, but also on the leaf of power systems. And I'm not talking about apostates. I am referring to the genuine leftists, the radical left, the SYRIZA, the coalition, or whatever was called over time. He was the top government today forty years a state bank advisor. You are not content with propaganda. You are targeting institutions that symbolize the creation of the social state by PASOK, such as EASA. Ladies and gentlemen, the institution of the CSCE was our top choice to support about four hundred thousand micro-retired people, within the social state. By negotiating 2014, we opposed the creditors' requirements and agreed to the need to maintain them. In your own negotiations, unfortunately, you agreed to abolish. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You are now abolishing it and asking for backwards and you are blaming the low pensioners for tax fighters. Mr. Tsipras, we won't let you get either the CSR back or the retrospectives. And if you do so by the votes of a hundred and fifty three and do not recall it until the afternoon - we expect your speech to withdraw this "retrospectively" - we will bring it back whenever we have the possibility or we will insist on its reinstatement. For the communications on the new pilot programme for the minimum guaranteed income I have to ask one thing: Did it take sixteen months to rename the programme from Guaranteed Social Income, CSR, to Social Income of Solidarity, CSR? Sixteen months did you need to make a rename? It is also in the context of its valuation of what had been done in the previous period. In conclusion, I would like to say just one thing about the complete decommissioning of the National Representation and the surrender of national sovereignty. Your own MPs have demonstrated that the ninety-nine supremacy is a tradition for lenders. A SYRIZA MEP from the Dodecanese triumphed to save some land in Rhodes for selling through the superstition, because his attempt - and we do not question it - was not taken over by the superstition and the parliamentary representative repeated it. What other proof is needed when Members themselves say: 'To God, do not go to the supreme, why does he go to a ninety-nine-year-old sale'? This signature and that vote will follow you all your life! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, I ask the floor to ask you something about an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u96	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u97	This is the Ministerial Amendment by Mr Skourletis, under a general number 449 and a special number 93, to abolish the new uses of land and the building coefficients laid down by Law 4269, which you are actually abolishing with this amendment. Just, Minister, in the explanatory statement to the amendment, but also when you supported the amendment here and presented it, you spoke about rationalisation and redesign. Give us more information to understand why we are returning to the regime of the 1980s in relation to this. I ask you to clarify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u98	Mr. President, may I answer? Let me suggest something else. Give me the floor now for five minutes, so I don't call him later, and I answer at the same time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u99	The Minister has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Answer what Mr. Amyras asked. First of all, this is precisely a abolition of Chapter II of the specific law that you said about land use. What will follow after the abolition? In a transitional period, until the adoption of a new Presidential Decree, which must take place directly, but always in dialogue with the institutions of society, the 1987 Decree will apply. So there will be no gaps at all. In our view, 1987 was better than it was under the 2014 Act. And, of course, I imagine that we will also have the opportunity with your own proposals, just to respond to a problem, the question of land use, which has been agitating Greece over recent years and on whose territory there is a hard conflict of interest. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to turn to other issues. As the debate is closed, I now think we can make some points and draw conclusions. Despite the screams made by the Anti-Population, any good-faithed observer can now understand that the new fund set up is not GOID, that the new fund set up does not aim to privatise, that the new fund is crucial for the role of the Minister of Finance, namely the political operator, that the revenues of the new fund do not go only, as is foreseen in the case of the TIAD, for the repayment of the debt. This is an incision to Greek things, which borrows models from other countries, such as France, so that we can have a better and more productive exploitation of our country's property. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard before Mr Kegeroglu, who referred to the CSCE. Honestly, he wants courage - I do not know how else to say it - people who had committed themselves to the abolition of the CSCE in 2015 to come and incur us, because we substitute it for national pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u101	Where does he write that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u102	Where does he write it? Don't you know your things? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u103	Which one? You say we're committed. Where does he write that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u104	From there on, I did not literally hear a specific proposal during this whole debate. Look, the 5.4 billion as a target you knew him when we voted together on the agreement in the summer. So we are now coming to vote on the implementing laws to achieve this common goal. Was there any suggestion on your part about the insurance? Was there a suggestion from you about the tax? Was there any other distribution for indirect taxes? Nothing. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, neoliberal anti-socialism, which has understood you now, leads you to a strategic deadlock - and this has been confirmed in this debate - and you do not have to present anything specific. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular on energy issues, what concerns non-privatisation - the vote by you - 66% of IPTO, non-implementation of the 'little' PPC law and its replacement with the legal mechanism of the tender, I have not heard any self-criticism. I get it. What to defend? Defend the barbaric attack on public property and PPC? To defend that you wanted to give the public networks to private individuals? However, because I understand that you are in a difficult position, I invite you to state at the moment that at least these articles, by actually making a self-criticism, drawing conclusions from the mistakes of the past, will be voted on. This is a first-class opportunity to show that you can draw conclusions from what you have been doing in the past and you have serious responsibilities. With the specific proposals we are making, we also manage to compensate PPC, but at the same time to enter with our overall energy policy, to make a "basket" literally in the wider energy market. Today, Greece is a leading player in the Balkans, in Southeast Europe, with the pipelines it promotes, with the TAP that we launched yesterday, with the Greek-Bulgarian IGB, with the floating station of Alexandroupolis, with the agreements that we concluded with Iran, Israel, Cyprus, with Egypt. Today, then, Greece is becoming a regional player of the energy market, it is becoming an energy crossroads, while following the new framework for renewable energy sources, the new law on the exploitation of geothermality, large areas that have been years old in our country. [[At this point the time bell ends the Minister's time is ringing.]] I will conclude by saying a few more general thoughts. You spoke, ladies and gentlemen, of the lack of credibility of the government. This is judged by the world, but there are also some objective signs, some objective moves, because everyone now or more agree that, after completing the evaluation, we are entering a new phase. Today large investment banks are opening offices in our country, IBRD, the Unit CREDIT, the European Investment Bank. These are new signs. Today, the debt debate is not general. Specific steps are taking. Really, gentlemen of the New Democracy, what about the debt? You're still sticking to what Mr. Samaras supported, the man you've recovered in the last few days about his viability. We have not heard you say anything about this. All of us will be judged by the tangible results of our policy. We shall therefore be judged whether we can reduce unemployment and poverty, whether we can bring the economy back to growth, that is to say, what you have been judged and failed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, too. Mrs Karamanlis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, I have asked you to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u107	Why, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u108	... in accordance with Rules 64 and 66 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I announced yesterday that by asking colleagues who are also ministers to be a little pitiful so that the day can come. Mr Skourletis made an intervention, all right - but the special reference he made to Mr Amyras's speech concerns us all, because we will be voting in a few hours' time - regarding Amendment No. 449/93. He has a problem that we ask him to understand. I accept what he said at the end that everything will be judged by the decline in unemployment, growth, etc. That's right. But here, Minister, you are the Minister of a very neural ministry on these issues, on the development of and on the reduction of unemployment. You have a very, very recent history, which should give you a message. There has been a law since 1987 and a presidential decree with ambiguity, bureaucratic data and too many problems. We're over it. We have tried with the legislation that the House adopted on our own initiative, Mr Maniotis, to solve this problem and to relieve investors of urban involvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u109	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, on the basis of what has happened to start a series of investments, we have hoped that something will happen and that the Ministry will come today and withdraw all the positive development of the recent years. How are we going to proceed like this, Mr President? And with an amendment, no debate. Mr President, how do we proceed like this? We have a huge draft law today, and we also have backing amendments, which create problems, do not solve problems. You must give us the opportunity, even during the day - what can I say - by extending the time, since there are so great issues with other arguments from the real point of view, that Parliament understands what it is voting on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u111	Mrs Karamanlis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Skourletis, TAP is the task of our government. Then you fought it, and now we see that you're cheering. Welcome to reality! We are in favour of privatization, of the free economy, you are fighting all this, you have not told us about the war in Skouria, about this war you have fought for months. The government, ladies and gentlemen, after the insurance, brings Parliament another bill of unprecedented cruelty to see once again that the country pays its cheap populism, with the assessment that it has been dragging back since October and the rulers slapping and pretending to defend unexistent red lines. In an economy that the business bunkers have multiplyed over the last one and a half years, where the move of companies abroad for tax reasons is a daily phenomenon, where late debts and red loans have increased, you come to impose a new tax raid, when before your experiments and the global anecdotes of the Baroufakis negotiation, you have loaded the country with a debt of 86 billion, according to the Governor of the Bank of Greece. But who are those who are mainly affected by your choices? They are our economically weakest fellow citizens. These are the unprivileged, who you would be protecting. This is particularly affecting the increase in VAT to 24%, the second increase in your term of office's VAT rate. These will hurt the rises in food and transport. It makes them poorer to raise the tax from coffee and cigarettes, to beer and fixed telephony, unless the use of the phone in the year 2016 is considered classic for the Left and must be taxed. You also increase the tax on petrol and heating oil, which will trigger a new cycle of appreciation in a series of goods. We all remember the specula you have made as opposition to this particular issue. We remember tabling an amendment to abolish all taxes on oil, we remember your position on a television show. You will tell me this, but we are very expensive, ladies and gentlemen. I cannot fail to mention the property tax, the new HISPIA, the left, which is a monument of political stifling. The Prime Minister once said with a veil that HNPH is not improving, only abolished. Of course, HIS lives and reigns, and Mr. Tsipras' announcements proved to be a fumara. They weren't the first ones, anyway. Let the deceit be deceived. Today, then, after reducing the objective values, you will increase the rates, so that you will not lose your collective objective. The vast majority of the owners will be asked to pay more. There is no provision for common or non-electrical property, while the burden on plots and plots is increased and property is affected. In fact, five hundred thousand families, according to Mr. Juliaraki, who will pay more, are few? In a narrow-minded society and whose tax capacity has long been exhausted, you are expecting new revenues from taxation. This is your conscious political choice. No evil lender has made it to you. All you will achieve with your insistence on the destructive recipe is to increase the overdue public debts and to drop water into the recession mill. You give no prospect to the country, no hope that it can stand on its feet. The only thing that the citizen sees on his horizon is the infamous budget cut, which is the result of the government's zero credibility and is tied to the country by hand for the next few years. With regard to the supremacy fund: First of all, we express our understanding to Mr Spirtzi, who with pain signed the concession of the regional airports and wished, that the competition should not be fruitful, and of course, to many of the government's so-called painless colleagues. Through the new company, you assign the entire national wealth and national property for ninety-nine years. Mr Tsipras' well-known chip 'no house in the hands of a banker' sounds a joke in front of the assignment of an entire country and, in fact, through a company which he will not control. Are the SYRIZA colleagues, who once spoke of germans and donors, proud of this humiliating and colonial behaviour? You even included the Olympic Stadium. It's good to say that you missed the Callimarro and the Olympic Flame. Really, what does Mr. Contonis have to say about sport? Of course, that's why you're going to tell me that sport is just football. But that's where he screwed up, with the blessings of Mr. Tsipras. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you once had the slogan 'we pay nothing until we collapse'. Today, you are asking citizens to respond to the unprecedented tax burdens you are charging them. You once talked about selling public property and had made your public operations election centres, selling support. Today, you are giving them to the new body unconditionally, and together you are giving our national dignity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Your inconsistencies and inconsistency are recorded and it has become a common conscience. One and only is the principle in which you remain consistent and uncircumcised, that of staying in power at every sacrifice. That is why you vote and you will vote with closed-eyed bills which dramatically worsen the standard of living of the Greeks and, above all, offer no prospects for the future. However, do not have the illusion that Greek citizens will easily swallow the deception you serve them. The countdown for politicians 'Blackyallus' and those who have invested in populism has already begun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Bukokouros, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. I am deeply impressed by the fact that some government ministers come to this step and without a trace of political shame and seriousness demand consent from the New Democracy, almost to vote for some articles in the bill. Look who's calling for consensus! Those who, by the finger in hand, expected the New Democracy government to collect the horny, to burn it, which they did. The New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, will vote in favour of the bill, not because of your encouragements, but because it has always guided the responsibility, seriousness and goodness of the country. From there on, let us move on to substance and allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to begin with the omissions of the bill. Such an omission is the amendment to special wages. The amendment was also passed on to committees by SYRIZA and ANEL Members. Whether it remains or retires within a late communication planning, the substance remains and your intentions are betrayed. If this amendment remains, then military officers, police officers, firefighters, porters, universities and judges will see their wage cuts immediately. This is a wage cut, and indeed an unrelated bill, which is supposed to be of no benefit to anyone, but ultimately affects everyone, and I will explain why. And the worst thing for you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? That you "false" a provision, and the "false" leads to a wage cut. The order had been frozen in 2012, the “bad”, as you say, the Samara government. So what's the best government? The one that "smacks" provisions and gives the maturation or the one that "smeats" and cuts wages? To go now to the bill, after the three-day debate, and the last citizen, and the most fanatical Syrian fan, has realised that this is a bill, which basically does three things. It binds and makes the entire private mortgage, but also the entire public property, which is essentially allocated to creditors without any democratic legitimacy. Why do you deny stubbornly, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, once only, that concessions, privatisations, the use of public property will benefit from the approval of the majority of this House? Why do you deny it? Isn't that too suspicious of you? In addition, each government with its majority will decide, if the Minister is able, as you say. What else does this bill do? It establishes a permanent wage cut and pension cut. The cutter comes in fora from the near future, ladies and gentlemen, as another sickly-bore vehicle. And why would wages and pensions be cut from next year? Because you are unable to achieve any of your development and budgetary objectives. Already in the first quarter of 2016, the whole of Europe has developed, while Greece has moved on with recession. The evidence is here. What else does this bill do? He's bringing a tax storm that doesn't leave anyone intact. Twenty-four new taxes! Not one or two. Beyond these key components, the building blocks of the bill, this bill, let me say that it is a bill of amendments for the ministers and excuses for SYRIZA Members. We have seen the amendments, but in the context of the psychological'massage', in order for the majority Members to pass through the antimony in the most extreme memorial neoliberal camp, lies and convenient excuses are being built. I have heard many colleagues from this Stepma say, yes, the night’s stay for hotels is being moved for 2018. They note, however, that the supplementary tax on hotels, craft industries and farmers has been coming from June. I have heard you say, yes, the excess is one-sided, and the responsibility will be for the Minister of Finance with one share in the General Assembly. You do not, however, forget that the executive powers of both the supervisory and the administrative board are the absolute control of creditors, since they are almost vetoed. You're talking about taxes. We shared them to share the weight. This measure does not affect 93% of farmers. The ENPI is not affected by 85% of the owners and so on. You note, however, that those affected are not themselves in any case and cumulatively affected by the whole of the Greeks. And how could they be different, ladies and gentlemen, with a bill that affects the entire mortgage, the whole public property and brings this storm? A storm of amendment and an excuse is this bill. Of course, if it is not all of your concern, I would like to tell you that the way to hell is along with excuses, ladies and gentlemen. It does not even concern you that falsehood becomes a structural component of your political character. Lies in January 2015, lies in the referendum in July, lies in the seventeen-hour negotiation - because it was not negotiating, it seems that it signed and signed and signed by the Prime Minister - lies in September, lies and now that few people are affected. Everyone's affected. So no consensus to you until you leave and relieve the Greek people of your injurious presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u115	Mr Dritsas, Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, has the floor for a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u116	Another legislative improvement, Mr President, necessarily after the legislative improvement announced by Mr Stathakis a moment ago, because Articles 103 and 110 must have harmonious and compatible arrangements between them. Following the change made by Mr Stathakis, we, too, are adapting in relation to the issues of the Competition Authorities on the one hand and the Port Regulatory Authority on the other hand, so that the arrangements are completely compatible and that there are no conflicts between them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u117	Mr Andreas Katsaniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by addressing SYRIZA's colleagues. Today is a day I would expect, those who were leading black flag protests against any privatisation, which were on the streets and protesting any change for the better, who were the ones who denounced and said that patriotism is to play dulls and dance the markets, at least one of them saying "I can't bear the burden of what I'm doing today." I would like one of them to say that what he's doing today is what he's been swearing for so many years. One of them would say that one of them was also mistaken to say that he was lying to his constituents. Because that's what he did. That is what you have done, ladies and gentlemen. And now you're actually here. And what do you use? A wisdom. Did you tell the world in September that you would transfer the Greek property for ninety years? Did you ever say that? That's what people voted on? So you're wise to justify what you're doing today. In what the lenders have been pushing for all these years, the previous government has reacted to both hands today. And you sign them, smiling. You don't understand what you're doing today. You do, smiling. And don't think you're finishing the cargo you get on your back here today. When the next one comes in - and it will be in the autumn - you will be here where you will find another wisdom to cut off wages, to cut pensions, to change working relationships. Because you will. Because you, to keep your position, have given all of it to the lenders. Can I tell you something? I belong to those who believe that this is the Left: opportunists, to keep the positions. We've got Lenin and Velochiotis on the back, and we cut off and we put taxes everywhere. That's left. Can I tell you one more thing? I think what you're doing today is good for the place, because the place will understand who you really are, because we'll end once and for all with the Left and with populism. That's the basic thing, that's what's important, so what's left to see from here is until you get there, what else you're gonna bring, what else you're gonna cut off. That is the big problem, and that will not last for the Greek people. You should be aware that the January part with Mr Varoufakis, Mr Varoufakis, is missing. The moral engineer is here, he's Mr. Tsipras, and he'll haunt you forever. You'll answer for him. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u119	Thank you. The Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Vernardakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u120	Before I begin, I would like to present to the Bureau a legislative improvement in the Digital Policy Secretariat law, which excludes classified communication and information systems and information systems from the scope of its competences. I put it to you to share with my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u121	I begin with the first theme, the establishment of the General Secretariat for Digital Policy, Article 159 of this Multi-Project. Ladies and gentlemen, we are ready today for an important, but also crucial structural reform in the field of state with the establishment of the General Secretariat of Digital Policy, through a large public consultation which has taken place recently. The Law on the establishment of the General Secretariat comes to solve a problem facing the Greek public administration for many years and relates to a single framework for training, implementation, coordination of the National Digital Strategy and Policy. The problem in the country is, on the one hand, the lack of a single strategy for digital policy and e-government, but even more so the great confusion of competence between ministries or individual structures of Ministries. Even greater is reflected in the overlapping and contradictory legislation, which, even when useful and good, remains inactive due to the diversity of competences, but also in the way in which the design and implementation of co-financed and other development projects in the public sector is carried out in relation to digital technologies. Finally, there is a great confusion of competence in relation to the country's representation at international and European fora, involving major initiatives such as the National Digital Champion, the European Digital Agenda and the Single European Digital Strategy. The result of this situation is that Greece has the lowest use of e-government in Europe, despite the fact that its human potential is considered in this area by the most important worldwide. I had the opportunity to mention in the debate yesterday in the committee that this situation has led to the destruction of more than EUR 7 billion from the CSFs and ESDP programmes in recent years. And I'm just saying, because other things about and a little more have been spent by the Greek State by other resources and sources with zero effect for digital development, public sector interoperability, electronic applications for the service of citizens. Unfortunately, the country that delivered the former political system is a country that is digitally delayed, without a single plan and, above all, without administrative tools. For this reason, one of the most critical vulnerabilities of the NSRP 2014-2020 was the formation of a central administrative structure at the highest level for the design and coordination of digital policy projects. The attitude of the two parties to the old coup d'état of the New Democracy and the PASOK is particularly impressive here. Really, how did they plan to solve this critical heresy in relation to the ESRB? Why have they not arranged to equip the country with the main tool for prioritising digital policy and e-government projects so that money can be absorbed? Why have they left the country from this arrangement, while attempting to create an institutional framework for the new ESDP? Ignorantly? In order to make it difficult for a next government to make it more difficult? The main point is that they are saying today, by the mouth of Mr Stakoura, that they will not vote on the provisions for the establishment of the secretariat. The justification is unknown. And this is where the party of Officerial Response should be placed, because it needs to respond to exactly what it opposes to their own interlocutors in the European Union, who consider this new structure necessary, so that plans of the new ESDP can be approved. What will they respond to almost all the companies in the IT sector, especially the younger, the more extroverts and the most innovative ones that welcome the establishment of the secretariat, precisely because they are looking forward to a structure that will restructure the Greek state's infrastructure and policies in a productive direction rather than to a rational dismantling of resources in conditions and situations of complexity. The second issue. I come to Rule 170 on the extension of the recommendation of the Administrative Secretaries. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 4369/2016 established a major reform in the Greek administrative system, the establishment of the administrative secretaries in the post of the old Secretarys-General, through a process of meritful and transparent selection through the register of public administration executives. The administrative structure with its responsibilities will now, as is quite reasonable, have as the head of someone from the public officials and high-qualified people in the public sector. This option is a major reform, since it is radically incited in the fragmented tradition of the Greek public administration, to be headed by a retired official or a political person. The reason for this practice of the last thirty, thirty-five years of administrative history was obvious. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Deputy Minister hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I will need two, three more minutes. The power parties used the administrative structure as a mechanism for redistributing political resources and customer relations. Our policy has been and is at the forefront of this situation and practice. In order to be productive for the benefit of the citizens and the public interest, in order to be operational, transparent and socially responsible, the administration must return to the area and its foundation. We call this policy a policy of colonization. Indeed, in some parts, it meets the policy of so-called demilitarization, used by so-called technocratic or modernist forces. This anti-corruption has been cured by n. Date of birth: 4369/2016. And while we would expect the New Democracy, at least on this issue - and I say the New Democracy, because it was one of the main proposals and positions of the party on the constitutional review - to adopt a positive position, we have seen a negative position and even say that, in its view, the position of the secretaries is a political one, and so it should continue. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] This, despite the fact that in the August agreement it had passed the relevant framework for a change in the status of the Secretary-General and the Secretary-General in the so-called demilitarisation of the administration. From one point of view, it makes sense, because it is another time to publish reforms and another to make them happen. When the time comes to question the mechanism you have built and maintained for many years, the pressures and objections are enormous. And the cost of reproducing the power mechanism becomes forbidden. It is therefore easier to baptize as "reforms" the deregulations of the labour and wages regime in the public sector than to interfere in the roots of irrationalism, injustices, great complexity and little corruption. Today, with our amendment to the law, we are extending the establishment of the administrative secretaries to all the general and specific secretaries present in the administration. We don't make new positions, because some insist they don't read and don't understand, I want to believe in good faith. And I take this opportunity to point out that many of these structures should be evaluated and in some cases to see again the need for their own existence and operation in the framework of the new organograms that are being built throughout the entire administration at the moment. And one last thing, in relation to that matter. I also stressed the closure of the speech during the vote on Mr von Wogau's report. We must go to a change in the legislative framework for the institutions. That is where we need to see the way in which the demolitioned public administration is linked to the government's political priorities, as an organisation and political leadership in every ministry. This connection is necessary, because the administration cannot and must not be dismantled. Political choices are formed through the democratic system of legitimacy and approval, and the administration must follow and comply. We therefore need to see that part of the strict political responsibilities of the current Secretary-General, namely by whom and how this link can be and can be used to describe in a new and modern organizational plan for the operation of the government institutions, and this should be done by law and not by a presidential decree, because it must also be a matter of primary expression of parliamentaryism, precisely because it is a serious question of the functioning of democracy and the state. I'll be done in a minute. The third point I would like to mention on the road is that today's multi-brand plan, firstly, changes the restriction of recruitment in 2010, the famous one to five, and this was done in a tough negotiation, which managed to gradually reduce one to five in four, one to three and so for the next few years. Secondly, he managed to exempt from limiting the number of recruitments of judicial decisions, both Greek and European, and, thirdly, to form a budgetary 'cushion', so that there is flexibility in recruitment in the fields of education and health.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u122	Please, finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u123	Colleagues and colleagues, I'm ending with a phrase. It is not just the programme and the agreements that matter. I say this because there are indeed a lot of things that a left-wing government needs to correct and change within and from this bill, but historically it has proved to be not only the agreement but also the agreementmaker. This is of great importance because the programme's implementation will correct, perish, develop aspects of the programme, ensure the interests of work, and that is what the old political system of old neoliberal bipartisanism knows much better than we do. That is why his rabies reaction and his surprise are finally closing the deal with it - and this is the real fear - and the historic cycle of the later political and economic dialogue in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u124	Thank you. SYRIZA MP Mr Karayannides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. I will start with a report that is slightly unrelated to the bill, but to me - and I think about the whole Left - it is important. Two days ago in Poland a law prohibiting any reference to anything that spreads communism passed. We cannot remain silent about the determination of Eastern European countries and must also answer the government, but also the parties of the democratic arch if they accept this determination. I therefore propose to Parliament today that the memory of Charilaos Florakis should be referred to the 11 years since his death in response to this determination. Let's go to the bill now. Because we do not discuss void times and because the Greek state was not created in 2015 at the beginning of the SYRIZA government, we need to see concrete data. Data first: There is a 20-year-old party that in 2009 ends with the economic catastrophe, i.e. sinking, finishing the shortcut in the economy. In 2010, the PASOK government brings the Memorandum and the IMF, and for five years you have been sinking society and industry at a rate we had not even when we came out of the Occupation in 1944. This given fact cannot be disputed, and if you question it, you only do it for micro-political reasons and it does not stand in logic. We shall therefore be discussing this, because whatever agreement is reached, it is about the economic situation in which you are the absolute responsibility. We met with this debt, and with this cut in GDP of 25%, but it was not the SYRIZA government that led us to this situation. So that will lead us to compromise, and these compromises are the ones that you accepted last summer. So don't stay in disillusionment because we have this agreement today, because this agreement has been led because we don't have the upper hand in the negotiations, but the creditors. This agreement leads us, because we believe - and it remains to be proved - that there is tomorrow, that there is a way out of the crisis. No horrors, no laughter, no great celebrations. But in this agreement, we believe that we are on the right track. It's still proving. Secondly, in this bill we take IPTO back and the "little" PPC that you, with a bill of your own, wanted to dive. So let's leave the fairy tale who sells the public wealth. So that I don't go far back to the joy of modernization, where he unleashed OTE and then started then blowing out the socks of the banking system and all the others. So don't tear your clothes off for the fund. Also, with regard to the support you suddenly discovered, on Friday in the committee where some institutional bodies came, they said the following and I will give you two examples: One is the example of the representatives of the beer operator. What did their president tell you? That at six years 2009-2015, out of EUR 130 million, 100 million was lost. Well, don't show up now supporters of something that you ruined. What did the tobacco representatives say to you? That within six years you have put so many special taxes that this product has been destroyed. Do not, then, show supporters of the things you have destroyed. We don't have a goldfish memory, nor do the people you destroyed have a goldfish memory. I want to close with a problematic article in my view. Article 56, which deals with electronic gambling, has many problems, one of which - most importantly - is that it taxes the OPCW and the twenty-four electronic gambling companies in principle. Secondly, because the OPAP is not a Christian church, it will pass on these costs to the agents. This means cutting off supplies and these people should be able to cope with a process that is already difficult for them. In fact, when the twenty-four e-game companies in 2015 have said all and all 116 million euros, something we have to do, because all twenty-four companies have a seat abroad. So, if these companies are to be controlled, they should be closed down and taxed at 35%, and we should also have a view of fairness about what exactly profits tax is on large companies. Why can't a company that's in the Cayman Islands, with a server making profits, not tax at all, and at the same time, agents who have operating costs, pay their tax, do not resort to tax evasion because they can't, pay differently.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u126	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u127	I'm closing, Mr. President. In this sense, this article has a problem and must be resolved immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u128	Thank you. Mr Stamatis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, I will try to be as brief and concise as possible within the time set by the Government's sensitivity to Members to discuss this bill. It is as comfortable as we do not have time to say our views, as comfortable as you - the SYRIZA MPs - do not understand what you are voting for and as comfortable a weekend, so that the Greek people will not deal with the bill under discussion. I'm starting with a lie and I'm going to go on with two truths. Lie first: Mr. Tsipras, a few days after the summit in Brussels on 15-7-2015 at the interview he gave ERT said for word, as far as the Fund is concerned: "What we ended up with, by 9 a.m., was finally building a fund in Greece, such as TIADED, by Greek administration." Is that what you voted for, ladies and gentlemen? Is it Greek administration? Is this the Greek Supervisory Board?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u130	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u131	Of course you do, don't you? Obviously in your mind you will have Greeks of the Pyu - Pyu type to say that. I'll submit it to the Minutes. What's the difference between HICP and the superstition? That the administration of HIDE was designated by us, by the Greek political authority and by the parliament. We changed them whenever we wanted. They were apologizing to us. There were only two foreign observers. Now we have three of our people on the supervisory board, supposedly, and the troika will agree who they will be. That's what you're voting on today. They will also decide by the known majority four out of five who will be the president and director of this fund. Mr. Chakatte, because I'm going to refer to you, I'm telling you in advance if you want to stay. Really first. Mr Moskovis was on his personal website 15 days ago: 'Only with that government of Mr Tsipras would pass these measures'. It is true, because you sign what we have denied, for example, the reduction of VAT on the focus, our refusal to accept the lifting of the special status for the islands, as now for the new GIDE, for the new superstition. So this phrase by Mr Moscovisi, colleagues of the SYRIZA, that only with Mr Tsipras could the measures go through is praise or death? You'll be judging it. But you appear here to argue that this regulation is a new one, which emerges during the negotiations. It's not true. Mr. Skourlet, who is here, in an interview he gave on 30-8-2013, says: "Is it possible for the government to commit such a crime?" I'm telling you, in an outline. He considered the creation of this superstition to be a crime. I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. And Mr. Tsakalotos in 2013, along with Mrs. Dourou, present a question to the Minister of Finance, Mr. Stournara, in a tsachian manner. Minister, you're used to asking puppy questions in a Chechnya way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u132	Some other scumbags, other slobbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u133	He's both got them. He's trying to take advantage of Mr. Stournara if we're going to move on to this crime. I'll submit it to the Minutes. The answer comes from Mr Stournara twice. One of the answers to your question and an answer that gives the "NATION OF SYRIZE". I read from the newspaper "PONTIKI": NATION OF KYRIAKIS on September 1, 2013, with the statement "the use of the real estate of the public is made by the GOD and the Greek Government. And that's not going to change." Do you, ladies and gentlemen, draw any conclusion, because the carpet was taken from Samaras, why did the carpet set up by Mr. Tsipras and why did the Greek public, Greece, have to charge an additional EUR 86 billion unnecessarily? To draw conclusions. I also want to make a revelation today. We're supposed to be talking about things we don't know. Yes, gentlemen. That was the original Shoeble plan, which we refused. Today it comes with a change. It's a Siomple - Moscovici project, because in this period...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u134	Why didn't you say so then...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u135	Because we refused. We didn't do this supposed bravely your own negotiation to retreat the other day. There is a finger, therefore, of the French state. I don't need any other testimony. Your rapporteur, sir, you, who are speaking and protesting, do you know what you said to the committee? It's registered and I'll testify. You said that we are doing such things, such as, for example, France, with which the Greek Government systematically and closely cooperated in the design and creation of the new fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u136	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u137	Is there any doubt about the Greekness of this project? [[Noise - Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] We're bothering you, aren't we?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u138	Please, Mr. Stopate, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u139	I shall conclude, Mr President. In addition, Mr Vernardakis, who spoke a moment ago, spoke of a new General Secretariat. It is right, but I can understand from the point of view of this - because I have done so in the negotiations - the contribution of the French advisers to the final version of this legislation. I'm closing up with the report by Mr. Tsakalotos. Mr. Chaakalot, you made another mention yesterday to Mr. Samaras. Of course, that's not an originality. Every day you wake up and sleep with Samaras, because he's too high on the bar and you can't reach him. [[Noise - Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] Dance and the sight to jump to reach Samara cub is a comedian and bothers you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u140	Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u141	But beyond that, you have made a reference to Mr Mitsotakis and said to him: 'Don't listen to what Mr Samaras says, because you will not become a Prime Minister'. What's that, Mr. Chakaloto? Is it advice or threat? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] So the Greek governments are still elected by the Greek people, even when they make mistakes like you. And do you know when this mistake will overturn?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u142	With Samara.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u143	In the spring of 2017. Mitsotakis will become Prime Minister, outside and beyond the threats you mentioned a moment ago. [[Noise - Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] Is that understood? So we do not listen to this threat. I am tabling the above-mentioned documents. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Stamatis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u144	Mr Metarakis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor. I would ask you, Mr Mitarakis, to keep the time, because many Members will not speak. It's not your fault. I'm addressing everyone. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today many SYRIZA Members are trying to justify this enormous shift from what they were saying in the election to what they were doing in the post-elections, following the narrative, the rhetoric that it is the last measures, that we have reached the end and that Greece will be doing well from now on. Maybe they're right about one thing. Perhaps, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you are right that this is the last memorandum the Greek Parliament is called upon to vote on, because today we are handing over all public property to international control. We keep the TIAD, we keep what you have reacted to in the past, with 100% of the revenues going to the debt, bring to the fund, and what was left outside, and what was all ours, is now 50% of ours, because 50% will go to the debt as well. So in the House we will not again discuss privatisations, like the private property of the Greeks, because all the loans, red and green, go to foreign funds based not in Greece, as you originally said, and not even to the European Union. Yes, I know Mr. Stathakis will say that for first-residential housing we will be delayed eighteen months. Indeed, the funds need eighteen months until they organise their office and are ready to receive these loans as well. Nor will this House need to discuss new budgetary measures again, because today we give the Minister of Finance the opportunity to decide on his own to cut wages and pensions, where he judges and put taxes where he judges it. In this sense, yes, it may be the last memorandum that this House is voting on, but it is also a huge blow to our parliamentary citizens. We hand over the country's right to manage its property, we hand over Parliament's right to legislate. We are discussing a bill, which is based on the basic philosophy of the Left: taxes, taxes, taxes everywhere to support and increase the state. I will make a special reference to an issue concerning our islands, the reduced VAT rate, which is a conquest of Greek, which is part of the acquis communautaire for Greece, stems from the Constitution, from the island clause. And the Prime Minister himself, Mr. Tsipras, in his proposal to the institutions in June 2015 gave what the previous governments refused. And you come today with Article 52 to apply the abolition of the reduced rate of VAT to all islands, in most of the 1-1-2017 years. This provision, as we said in the summer, is being voted against by the New Democracy. But when we talk about taxes, can I say something? You also create a new VAT rate, 30% for the telephone and 35%, essentially for pay-TV. But you ignore what actually happens. You are now aware that many households no longer have a fixed phone because they rely on mobile phones. You are aware that the market is also changing via video streaming many people no longer want, do not use pay-TV. You are therefore taxing these markets on their own which deal with major issues. In any case, however, you will tell me that this is the least. But what we are finally seeing is that the tax storm is your choice, as the Vice-President of the European Commission said in an unusual statement, namely that it is the government's choice to tax rather than cut costs. In August you said in this Chamber that you are voting, because you will immediately get a debt cut. Unfortunately, there is no longer a debt haircut in your rhetoric. Finally, it will be shown that the PSI and the 2012 voluntary repurchase were the only two substantial reductions in the nominal value of debt. We finally went from Mr Varoufakis' 'perpetual bonus' to Mr. Tsakalotou's 'perpetual memorandum', from the bonds in the Ministries to the Ministries. But, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to have new measures something positive must happen to the Greek economy, we must return to positive growth like those you inherited in 2014 and lost them. And I ask: what is this government's plan - eighteen months - for the development of the Greek economy? New investments don't bring in. According to the KEPE, in the May 2014 study, previous governance brought 37.6 billion new investments in the site, the ones you are currently implementing, such as the TAP signed by Antonis Samaras, such as investments in regional airports. But new investments you have not brought, a new one you have not brought.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u146	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u147	I shall end in a few seconds, Mr President. So in 2017, in 2018, in 2019, where will growth come from, ladies and gentlemen, in a country that still does not have development law, in a country that is taxly uncompetitive and in a country that remains taxly unstable? This bill is another step in the wrong direction and will, unfortunately, lead to new measures. That is why we are voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u149	Mr President, I am sorry, but I have to ask the Minister for Justice, who is going to leave. Can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u150	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a legal change has been tabled for Article 106 of the law - signed by Mr Stathakis and shared with us for a little while now - which concerns a complete recast in the reality of the criminal provision, which is the provision that eliminates the criminal offence of the entire sector that we or in any case the Greek society demarcates as a strife. In this respect, the wording of the provision, Mr Minister of Justice, is of great importance. What I would like to ask you - and that is why I have delayed you and thank you very much - is that, while it relates to a provision of criminal law, it does not bear your signature. So my first question is if you sign it. My second question is whether there is a view of the Competition Committee. Because this provision here, which is a provision of criminal law, concerns a change to Law 3959/2011 for which, according to the text of the law, which you have not amended, requires a recommendation from the same Competition Committee, which you have, in any case, appointed a few days ago. By the way, because we are talking about the wider circle you call a complex, moral advantage and so on, and it seems to be a criminal offence here, Mr Stagioras in the committee - and he also observed it in a more elegant form, Mr Ministers - in Article 56, he called for the list of gaming companies favoured by this provision of scalable taxation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If you are kind, Minister, before the vote, could we also have that list?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Paradisepoulou, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u154	Yes, Mr. President. The provision of Article 106 is in the main body of the law. The immediate minister is Mr Stathakis and that's why he's signing. I personally have no objection, Mr Dendas - indeed it has a criminal content - to add my signature at the moment to the relevant legislative improvement. The view was that whoever draws up the provision, the main article, also draws up a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u155	So you're gonna sign it, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u156	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u157	Good. If I may, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u158	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u159	If you are kind at that time, Minister, because it makes no sense to ask Mr Stathakis on this point, you should explain to us, after you agree, its meaning in relation to the meaning of the previous one. 'Cause while the previous one concerns strings...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u160	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u161	Look, here it is - to speak the people's language - quasi amnesty, elimination of dull acts possibly to the extent of a felony. In the original layout there is the word'slash'. Here wickedly - you will allow me to say that this change, Minister of Development, has probably been made to you by the evil one, because you are not legal - refers to a related one. I think that this is an improper attempt to widen the cycle of the elimination of offences even further. That is why I would like to have the interpretative statement made by the Minister of Justice as to what specific offences are involved in the specific elimination of the threat to this extent. Also, Minister of Justice - but we will also ask you under parliamentary control - who is involved in this provision. I would also ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to look with us for what Mr Stagioras has asked for in the provision of Article 56, namely which gaming companies are favoured. For you have been speaking for eighteen months against interlocutory. Look at these devices. They'll accompany you for many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u162	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, I would like the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u164	The Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, George Stathakis, asked to be placed on the red loans and has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, I would like to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u166	You want to answer now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u167	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u168	I'm sorry. I thought you didn't want to answer now. Here, Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u169	Mr. Dendia, your thoughts begin on a wrong basis. It's not a occult memorial, it's not a conditional limitation. This does not concern certain acts which have been done and possibly photographically are amputated or given or anything else. It is a fixed arrangement that defines the future. And it stipulates that anyone who pays the fines and pays back what they are burdened with, can benefit by eliminating them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u170	You mean that it does not cover acts that have already been committed in the past?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u171	It'll cover vaguely again...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u172	Aah! So here we are now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u173	No 'A!'. Please, before you do "A!", listen to me. Each provision of criminal law, of course, when it is more urgent, also covers previous acts. None of them, however. It is a law that applies to the future and also covers previous acts, as all relevant criminal laws cover, in accordance with the standard rules of the Criminal Code, if I remember correctly, Article 2. Well, nothing new, then. As far as your question is concerned, and for whom is it, my answer clearly and clearly is...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u174	What acts first?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u175	The acts described in the provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u176	With the word'relevant'?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u177	Look, the deeds are described in the provision. However, the provision does not describe persons and does not describe actions in any way. For the law is unpersonal and, of course, defines the future. I repeat that the concept of the provision from the outset was to eliminate the criminality of free competition infringements. Where there is a real drag and other acts with it, it shall not be covered. And in order to make this clearer, it has become a recast, which is now expressly mentioned in the criminality of the crimes in question which are identified by the same violation. If this does not seem clear to you, it can even improve. However, it is clear that this provision refers only to acts of infringement of free competition and not to others, which, in fact, are actually torn, congested or terminated at the same time, such as acts of violence, blackmail or anything else. I am tabling this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u178	Mr Minister, you did not answer me on the recommendation of the Competition Committee!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u179	Before I give the floor to the Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty one student and four students and four educational attendants from the 9th Elementary School of Evosmos Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u181	I had previously given the floor to Mr Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u182	My position concerns the provision to which the representative of the New Democracy referred and the Minister replied.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u183	I'll give you the floor right after Mr. Stathakis. Mr. Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u184	With regard to the opinion of the Committee on Competition, I would like to say that the opinion exists and is compatible with the previous article, for 105. As you know, the Competition Committee does not give its opinion on the criminal aspect. It's about another principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u185	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u186	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. This provision, of course, has been added to this bill to cover crimes. But she's not the only one. And in Article 193, paragraph 7, it refers to the words: 'In respect of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Disease...' - which will certainly be run by foreigners - '...the members of...' - that is to say, the foreign sovereigns of the country - 'have no civil responsibility over third parties for acts or omissions in the performance of their duties, except for fraudulent or gross negligence'. In other words, in advance, we have a complete cover-up of any crime these people will make, who will be foreignly dominators of Greece, from the present SYRIZA - ANEL co-government. All this bill finds analogous provisions, which have one single goal: To cover up those who have turned the country into a lousy protectorate of foreign forces. But the New Democracy isn't talking about covert up criminals. The works and days of this party are well known and the amendment that brought nights to cover up similar crimes of bankers who gave sea-loving to parties are known. Therefore, Golden Dawn also denounces the co-government and so-called Opposition, because with such disgraceful legislation it is intended to cover crimes, serious felonies against Greek citizens. I shall return to that question in my second language later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u189	Mr. Syriza, member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for five minutes. Please, Mr. Armallenie, keep the time to speak more Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are watching today, which is, in fact, the third day of the debate on the Multifibre Arrangement after the two meetings on the committees, a debate which I will describe as a follow-up to the debates on old cuts in this Parliament, as well as to a very large extent a debate on the continuation of the absurdity. And I say this, because many colleagues in particular from the Dedicate and the rest of the Opposition, speak here today and account for our own government as if it had not gone through six, seven years of comitology, as if we had not reached a state of bankruptcy in the country that we received it at the bottom of the barrel and managed literally the mud of this bottom and as if they had not voted last night on 14 August, these measures which are now being completed. They are trying to cut off their responsibilities and appear today in a favourable position, of course, that they are voting against budgetary measures. And what are these? It is 1% of gross national product, that is 1.8 billion, which complement measures of 5.4 billion and to which we have agreed and agreed. So why the whole story? To be good with our voters and to be accountable to others? This applies to all provisions. And for the provision of the islands that burn me, it is obviously true. Last year all colleagues from SYRIZA, ANEL, New Republic of PASOK, Potami, voted to abolish the reduced VAT rate in the Aegean Sea. And the one with three categories of islands, as Mr Gas has already said. Today they come and conquer us that we supposedly sell the islands, while they defend them. So I think that this article is really wrong. I call on the Government and the Ministers until the end of the year to have voted for compensatory measures, which I know are under way. We have also contributed to this process. And we will make a further contribution so that, by the end of the year, there can really be compensatory measures to the benefit of permanent residents. I would like to mention two small issues concerning islands. Firstly, there is the provisions of the Ministry of Shipping - and this is good - that, while until now 0.2% of the revenues of the Municipal Port Islands went directly to RAL, now by means of a joint ministerial decision, it will be determined which municipal port funds will participate in these resources that will go to the Port Regulatory Authority. In other words, many islands will be excluded so that they do not get even more burdened with these resources. Secondly, we have tabled an amendment to abolish HNVIA for the inhabitants of the smaller islands with a population of less than three hundred. I would ask the political leadership to accept it from there and move on. I now come to say two things about the provisions of the Ministry of Shipping. First of all, I believe that the Port Regulatory Authority - in its new form established - and the Public Port Authority, together with the Ministry's General Secretariat, regulate and supervise the country's overall port policy. I believe that the Port Regulatory Authority is reassigned to proper bases. It was institutionalised in 2013. He remained understood and weak. She practically didn't exercise her role. Today, however, it can exercise it in the context of competition regulation. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a minute. Thirdly, I consider it a conquest of the Public Port Authority, which reflects European port policy. It is a European acquis that wants port services to exist in all ports. And this public port authority harmonizes port policy with the European port system. The Public Port Authority, as an independent agency within the Ministry, embodies what is done in all European ports. It supervises, controls and implements the concessions of the privatised ports, effectively defending the interests of the public. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall end. I don't have time. What I want to say is that these measures that we are voting on today, you know very well that they are the last tough budgetary measures. I hope that from Tuesday night a new era will begin for our country, for the Greek people. And in this new era, the Left will be a protagonist, as it becomes a protagonist in many other countries, at least in the European south. So we call on you not to be a pigeon. So we call on you all together, for the good of the country, for the good of the Greek people since Wednesday morning to be protagonists in a new course of the country, which will also bring relief to these heavy measures which have been so far, for seven, eight years, in particular, voted against the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u191	Mr Hadjisavvas, Member of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. We have cut our speech three times, reduced our speech to five minutes, to catch up, we are in some committees, there are issues that we wanted to mention, such as forest maps and legitimisation. We shall vote against it, and that is something, but we do not have time to explain why. SYRIZA's rapporteur went out and said he would expect ideological controversy in this bill. How to fight ideologically an ideology makes a hundred and eighty-degree turn, makes Olympic cumulations, from an antimony to a memorial within a night. First make ideological intercourse between you, to decide what ideology you have, and then come and do with us. Of course, you are also moderate social democrats. Artifacts old, taxis confusing people. You have to give your VALUE with festivities and take them back after doses. This ninety-nine years and three hundred and sixty-four days, what is it? So he won't write a hundred? Like a bidding sign at the supermarket. More generally, SYRIZA's governance is reminiscent of marketing ‘LIDL’. The hypocrisy of the four and a half thousand pages read by some of you - or seven and a half, that others say - what is it? They're listening to students who give pan-Hellenic exams and we make them a complex. They will say: "Well, what are these people doing there? In forty-eight hours they learned them from them, read them, understand them, vote them and charge them for a century." Let me not read it all or my Golden Dawn colleagues, who, after all, are not going to vote for it, we are not charging anything to anyone. You who will vote 'yes', but will also charge this generation and the next generation, would you like to tell us that you have read it? Nobody read it. Well, that's great down there, ideological. I hear your arguments in here. I hear them once in the world outside that the Social Democrats - even Communists - are not even - of SYRIZA defending the Memorandums. I'd like to know, though, academic nail doesn't burn me - what excuse you're telling yourself the night before you slept to defend the memoirs. Or you will write thousands of pages in your calendars or your last record will stop on the night of the referendum. Even more dramatic, however, are the New Democracy MPs and especially those in the province who live up to the problems of the world there. You have finished farmers, free professionals, will now close the cafes and there will be nothing in the villages. We also have illegal immigrants there. And now the provincial MP of the New Democracy is being forced to take the Golden Dawn agenda, copy it and go out to the villages and say the same thing as us. The drama is, however, that his leadership does not agree, it finds no response to Mr Mitsotakis's words when he goes up on the Step. The leadership of the New Democracy is all over the place, then, a turn in the center. You don't have to make a turn, gentlemen of the New Democracy. At the center you've been a life. A centre in Greece that has no room for right-wing and patriots, but not even for centre-rights, only for left-wing and left-wing. You've always been there, always sold the folk, patriotic right base to laugh at the left. When, of course, the rapporteur of the New Democracy spoke and complained, he was supposed to do nine nine years of what the Minister of Finance wants, a Member of Parliament was thrown down and said, ironically, "I mean, you", showing his own. This is a direct assumption of the continuity of the Memorandum governments. As New Democracy and PASOK were, now it's SYRIZA and ANEL and the next one to come next, again she'll be because the same orders will be executed. Of course, the cooperation has existed since the summer, when the prerequisites came and you said "go whatever it is". Then the New Democracy voted. You were voting for laws then, in the prerequisites, which said that the goals were these, we would succeed them and the law "and whatever else it takes." So, gentlemen of the New Democracy, what is now coming is 'what is needed' and you say that you are not voting on them? Of course, some of you are even voting for them now, you cannot say no. They're all yelling for the OSCE line in Idomeni because money is lost by some companies. For the residents who live there and can't go to school, their children don't say anything. Why? Because there was a very nice game before Easter. The Neo Democrats came out, asked them a question, told them that Easter is emptying, they came out after the Neo Democrats and celebrated, "bravo, we succeeded." Nothing has happened and nobody is talking about the fact that the number of illegal immigrants has increased in Idomeni, and people think that this issue has been resolved here too. Business "mobilisation" of Northern Greece. It's no coincidence that Kilkis, who didn't become Serres, for example. From the port they will take the raw materials, in Stavrochori and Hersos, in the Free Economic Zone, with Chinese wages made cheap products and via the Balkan road they will go to Central and Northern Europe. In conclusion, you, too, have fallen, the young rulers, in an endless loop, a loop that constantly makes the same mistakes over and over again, in the same aftermath, a loop that drowns the Greek people and the nation. This pathogen cannot be corrected unless it is crushed. A national government of the Golden Dawn that will come will radically change everything to save both the people and the nation. Now that every speaker goes up and up and up and up, anti-Golden-Golden-Objectives, saying that he wasn't afraid of tanks, that he resisted, I tell you that if the resistance to tanks, which you weren't afraid, was the same as the resistance to the memorials, it explains very easily why seven years were walking the tanks out here undisturbed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u193	Mr. Kefaliannis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to talk about what you did, and you promised the Greek people both in January and September, because I think I would break into open doors. At first, however, I was tempted to refer to what you have done these fifteen months, namely to all the new taxes that you have imposed, but again if I mentioned one to one specific of the taxes you have imposed, I might not have had five minutes. That is why I am going directly into the bill, which I think is the fact that the SYRIZA's internal drama about the euro, Europe and capitalism is being brought to an end. It is obvious - and we recognise that, ladies and gentlemen of the government - that you have decided to stay on all three. It is clear, too, that there is no alternative plan and because the fear of the new guards the deserts you have decided what you are doing with this bill. Of course, the best characterization I can find to describe is this. It is a forced coexistence with regard to the economy of the free market. A poor and miserable economy of the free market, without its creative potential, with many taxes, punishment on human capital, penalties on investors and uncertainty on the rules. An economy of free market with a lot of leftoverism, anti-elitism and class confrontation, and which, before even the vote on this bill, is more than just new delusionaries, new lies, fraud, but mainly hypocrisy. As Mr Skourletis said, it is the result of brutal blackmail, bringing back to our memories on the heroic days of last summer or, as Mr Tsakalotos said, it is the price of a good debt agreement. Of course, there is also a more fragmented version of this particular version. It is one of those who say that in December 2014 your previous government inherited all these measures, which you are going through today. I would remind you that at that time the Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, said that these 86 billion measures in fact are the result of the previous government. And because old love, ladies and gentlemen, the argument of both Mr Varoufakis and Mr Theaharakis has been heard several times these days. If you read the paper of the Ministry of Finance, which was published - look out! - by the SYRIZA Government in February 2015, you will see that all debt refinancing needs at the time, that is, for the period 2015-2018, were 41 billion. So what really hero of this negotiation should the Greek people charge the extra 45 billion to reach the 86 billion in this third memorandum? And that's all it was! To make this racing and heroic negotiation increased short-term borrowing, inshore bills, the flows of 3 billion. Also, government debts increased in excess of 3 billion. So some 6 billion is the account, which you cannot return without funding the institutions. Should I also mention the EUR 12.7 billion of public participation in the banks, which was nullified by the latest November recapitalisation by converting a temporary debt into a permanent debt? I should like to mention the EUR 600 million which you have drawn from the accounts for our participation in the International Monetary Fund - which Mr Stournaras has indicated, by the way - in order to continue making this heroic and proud negotiation and which you have also not returned to? Or is it that at EUR 10.5 billion from the return of profits from the European Central Bank until 2018, when heroically the government and Mr Varoufakis released last March? Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the House, you have been inheriting this account to the government and to the Greek society since last year, and that is exactly what the account shows in this draft law. But unfortunately, it's not just him. The creation of the famous supertemio is the one who really takes us out of our clothes. The Minister for Finance, Mr Chakalotos, claimed on Friday something very simple to defend his policy. That is to say that any privatisation puts the board of directors of the fund must be approved by the general meeting, commonly by the Ministry of Finance. Indeed, this applies to the normal public limited liability companies. The General Assembly shall select the Management Board, which shall, in effect, reflect the will of the General Assembly. What Mr Chakalotos has not said, however, is that in the case of the surplus fund, the board of directors is chosen by the supervisory board. And I ask you: is it or is it not true that the Supervisory Board does not commit itself to its choice on the board? Is it true that the Supervisory Board has the power to revoke the appointments of members of the Management Board? Is it true or not, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that the supervisory board, and not the general assembly, has the most important and key responsibilities that shareholders would have in a ordinary limited company? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. And, of course, how the supervisory board is formed, I think you all know that the first reason is that the lenders have it and I think you cannot question it. I'll try to be accurate and fair to you. Today you do not proceed to a sale in the sense of selling an asset at a low price and the public property is not sold with this multi-project. You're doing something much worse. This property no longer belongs to the Greek state, since the decisions on its management and disposal are no longer taken as the institution of the Hellenic Republic. It belongs to a body directly controlled by third parties, by our creditors. And that, ladies and gentlemen of the Government and colleagues of the Com munity, whether you like it or not, is called the concession of our national sovereignty. In conclusion, I should like to refer to the comeco-tragic theatre played in Parliament over the last few days.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u195	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u196	You don't like what I'm saying, but don't interrupt me, I still need ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u197	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u198	From SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks - although from the Independents I do not see any MP, they seem to be unable to defend the bill - some say that you mourn, others that you cry, others that you are assimilated, but in the end you will vote. In fact, I ask: What is this play? Because I think there is another way to go, which is ready and ready to resign. So you would not jeopardize the government, but you would also support your so - called left conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, too. Mrs Kefalidou, Member of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u200	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The law of seven and a half thousand pages is called upon to vote after a two-day study! Is there a Member of Parliament with a minimum seriousness that he considers to be doing his duty to be fundamentally or who can claim that what we are doing here today is not a theater of irrationality? Tragic prank of parliamentism? The vast majority of Members of Parliament do not know exactly what they are voting on. And most importantly, it is impossible to understand what is behind particular provisions. So today, once again, we do not know exactly what we are to vote on. We came to the pan-Hellenic tests for the country's existence tomorrow with some of the sos and some of the dusts and the government came with the air and the certainty of success! In fact, I am not sure whether there is knowledge and awareness of the consequences and social consequences of this horror coming to the vote. I am referring to the Greek politicians. For the quality of the European Union's policies, whose unity has become the shortest joke and is watching and adopting these practices, it is not the time to talk. But from Monday this law will dramatically change the lives of millions of people. The Prime Minister who tossed the memorial loneliness proud that he made his promises and that he was protecting the fight and sweat of every Greek citizen. His government canyon says sectors and radical reforms and all because they fought hard, ignored sirens and subjection to foreign interests. And since this morning I have heard too many ministers trying to create a climate of optimism, that there will be serious statements in the Prime Minister's speech this afternoon, I would like to remind you that this trick has come back again, ladies and gentlemen. We've seen the play before. The fact that all the productive classes have been in the bars for months, that all Greece has been dead and for its Prime Minister and Government is not saying anything, that has to worry you. Their ears no longer sweat, they just sat in the frustration of the government chair and because they are thirsty for power they overlook that sometimes these chairs are electrical. After the theatrical performances of the proud negotiation that made around the world and broke funds, it's time for the account. Now what are you gonna do? You'll obviously do anything to stay in power. Ladies and gentlemen, the responsibility of SYRIZA for the dissolution and paralytic stagnation of the country over the last one and a half years, just to make the whim of its left ideal, costs the country. The real economy returned to the recession. Business expectations are evaporating. The consumer confidence has fallen to the lowest point since November 2012. The overdue private and state debts were increased. Exports of goods and services are shrinking, as are turnover. The padlocks on the market are multiplying. The bank deposits in 2015 show the largest outflow from the crisis principle. Non-performing loans were increased. The credit shrinking has continued. The list of your tangible achievements is dizzy. Ladies and gentlemen, last weekend you were successfully unsuccessful with shorter wages, pensioners, professionals, scientists, farmers and businesses by voting for insurance. This weekend you're coming to finish whatever's left standing. Because I have to tell you that we have new customs in this House now. Every day, we subordinate and at weekends we bring the serious bills with urgency. If you have the impression that people aren't watching us, you're wrong. With this bill, public services and almost all the ECIs are transferred to the new super-colonialisation fund and they are on their way for sale. OSA, POSY, STASY, OASKA, ELTA, OSE, METRO, HYDAP, HSBO, PPC, corporate infrastructure, nineteen properties – fillets, which are included in the TSEDED, even the exchangeable property that is essentially owned by Asia Minor and Pontius, are only some of the assets that will be offered for partial or total divestment. But making use is not the creation of a ninety-nine-year-old company, which will not be accountable to the National Parliament and which is effectively controlled by foreigners. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not voting for this miscarriage. Why? Because we don't know and nobody knows safely what it says. Because the provisions you bring, in fact, the new measures along with the cutter, are about 9 billion, that is to say it is as much as the second Memorandum. And finally, why the provisions of this bill contain wrong measures. Cutter and new taxes, proven ineffective, socially unfair, drain the citizen, put tombstones in growth and end the middle class. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's manipulations are no longer unspeakable or ideological. They're criminals for the country, for its future, for our children, for our bachelors. They obviously don't care. They are not intended to give a solution, nor a prospect of breathing in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u201	Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u202	One second, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u203	You got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u204	Their purpose is to close the review, get some money, and God has it. At the back of their minds dominates the intrinsic thought that anyway, not all will be implemented. But they also know what they're going to do. They will take out the bag of the scandals no one will "selling" or announce any measure to relieve sensitive social groups and see. After all - when people are called to pay for the marble of those who are outrageous to vote today - who do not even know it - it will no longer be government. They will have passed to their proud Opposite and from Syntagma Square they will be shouting indignantly about the analgesic measures they themselves have imposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u205	Please, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u206	And then no one will be able to talk about fraud. It will be the account of the greatest political fraud in Europe's modern history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u207	Thank you. Mr. Pappas, Minister of State, has the floor. How many minutes do you want, Mr. Pappa? Seven is normal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u208	Five to seven minutes. I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u209	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, the invitation to tender for television licences has been published and the invitation to tender will be held in the summer. Greece has ceased to hold the shameful exclusiveity of the only European country that has never tendered for private television stations. With detailed consultation at the drafting stage of the law, but also at the stage of publication of the notice, despite the predictions and desire, unfortunately, some in here are at the last stage. The competition shall ensure transparency, equal conditions for participants, economic sustainability of the schemes, jobs, quality, maximisation of the price for the Greek State, and shall take special care to ensure that the property regime is clear. The frequency map is updated over the next few days. So, in a way of armored legal and constitutional, we move forward with the conclusion of the tender with procedures that have been completely objectively objective. There is already a strong interest in participation and I would like once again to call on the Civic Opposition to contribute at least now, after a half-time celebration, so that the country can acquire a legitimate national Broadcasting Council. Ladies and gentlemen, if something is left out of the debate on the law we are discussing, it is the impediment of the Opposition Officer. That is what I think will be the political event that will characterise it. For some people think that we will let the Greek people forget, not their intentions, their commitments, their signatures, what they committed to the fifth evaluation, the EUR 20 billion above. So we have here a Civic Opposition, which moves with the legacy of Mr Samaras. And I don't mean the legacy of the far right, which one exchanges the ties with Mr. Patakos, and the other invites us not to give the memory of the dictator Metaxas. I don't mean that. We will have this opportunity to discuss this in every debate in the House and we will not be giving it up. I mean the line of success story and left parentheses, which we only learned a moment ago that it was overdue even more and says April 2017. Every week they'll transfer it. And Mr. Samaras came out to say what? To say - it says - that the Greeks must remember what they were like in December 2014 and how they are now. Mr Samaras, who in 2014 took 10 billion euros again did not catch the goal of the surplus, asked who to remember? Are the farmers, who received the aid and compensation of more than EUR 2 billion, and the maximum majority of them favoured by the combination of taxation and insurance? From the storekeepers, where did they live the stocking record in 2013? From the pensioners, whose subsidiary was taking them to slaughter with the zero deficit clause, which we prevented? Remember the Greeks who have their first residence protected, while we inherited a regime of total liberation and zero protection? Should the two million uninsured, who now have access to healthcare, be remembered by the civil servants? The fifteen thousand civil servants who were not fired, as expected by the fifth evaluation with the Samara and Stournara signatures? Remember it too? Remember all private employees for the negative forecasts of the same fifth assessment of the labour market? All Greeks and Greeks, ladies and gentlemen, remember it as they monitor the Observatory's transformations and the vertigo of opposition tactics in which the New Democracy has fallen. One you blame us for blind conflict and one you blame us for unconditional surrender. Then they also come out and claim that Europeans surrendered to the irrational demands of Tsipras. We will wait for the Chief of Officer Anti-Population to warm up these statements and see all together whether they are compatible with the extreme rhetoric of tradition, which is also funny, when it is ejected from the lips of some who have a very specific mandate, practice and practice in government positions. To sum up, the Civic Opposition I think that since previous governance it has inherited the electoral defeats, the extreme right, which has moved from the screening to the administration of their party and the logic of the left-wing parentheses, which is at risk of burning it in the warm air. We have inherited from Mr Samaras the commitments of the fifth evaluation and we are taking them out, we overthrow them. We have inherited the logic that debt is sustainable. We inherited a broken society and we support it. We inherited an economy in trekking and stabilised it. So it opens up a new page for the country with the closure of the rating and the measures, as agreed and voted on in July, the debt regulation opens, restores liquidity to the economy, unlocks the Yunger Development Package and forms a new reality in which the New Democracy is actually to be tortured a little more to be historically placed. I wonder: Did all that we did harm the country? Did the government's negotiation damage us the country? We recommend not for the last time - I am sure we will have to do this again - in the Civic Opposition to wake up, get serious and coordinate with reality, because the parenthesis he dreams of goes for an eight-year parentheses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u211	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u212	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u213	Mr. Stavura, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u215	Mr. Loverdos, why are you asking him why?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u216	There is a question of procedure agreed yesterday morning with Mr Kaklamani.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u217	Please, for a minute you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u218	Mr President, we kept it until late last night until about twelve and a half before one. Today it is going to change, and we have a time limit. We said that any minister who does not have anything to do with the draft law and takes the floor for a general political position, would have the right to speak on the basis of Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure, in response to the Minister's speech for two minutes. I would ask you to speak on this matter. It is unacceptable that you should want to finish the procedure in the times that we have set and create an inequality between this House and the government. The Minister who has to do with the draft law is given the floor. The other one is interfering. You give him the time of normal Minister's speech. I would therefore ask you to speak for two minutes on what he has said. This must not continue, Mr President. We must not protest against this. You are not there only to tell Members and Members of Parliament if they have broken their time. You're there to keep the whole process. It is a mistake what is being done and let the government first take responsibility. Mr. Pappas does, he's the first Minister. So I ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u219	First of all, Mr Loverdos, Mr Papapas intervened, as the other ministers to intervene for five minutes by mutual agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u220	No, Mr. President! The Minister made a regular speech. I ask the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u221	But listen to me! On the same basis Mr. Vernardakis intervened, Mr. Xanthos agreeing with Mr. Papa...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u222	Oh, no! It has provisions in it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u223	Wait a minute, Mr. Loverdos! Mr. Juliarakis and Mr. Drits. Mr. Skourlet also spoke. That was a deal. And the deal was not with me as President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u224	The Bureau has done so, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u225	What argument is that, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u226	It didn't happen with me. I found it here. It was a deal. Mr Pappas spoke five minutes and, like all - and also Members - he extended his time and spoke six and a half minutes. Well, that's not tragic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u227	No, it wasn't on the list, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u228	There was no exception, in other words, to Mr Pappa. No exceptions were made!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u229	Mr President, I am entitled to the floor and there is no way you can remove it from me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u230	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u231	Mr President, all the ministers you mentioned have rules. In particular, Mr Skourletis also has an amendment. That is another thing that the Minister of State has done now. And I come to the point of view, Mr President. Firstly, it is a question of seriousness to talk about unserved loans and loans in relation to what was in force and what the draft law here today has. It's unacceptable to be so inaccurate. The biggest lie is inaccurateness. Saying that you received unprotected first residence is a lie, and even one of the largest ones. And secondly, instead of talking about complexity in relation to the media, he can tell us what Article 106 says and who he wants to protect. And tell us in response to his MP, a majority MEP, which bet companies Mr. Pappas covers here today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u233	The rapporteurs have the floor. Mr. Staruras... Excuse me, Mr Staikoura, Mr Koutsoubas has come and under the Rules of Procedure he is entitled to speak. For 15 minutes, therefore, the Secretary of the Communist Party of Greece and President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas, has the floor for 15 minutes. Here, Mr. Kutsuba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u234	Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are indestructible, hypocrites, liars and theoballers. You have been provoking the people for sixteen months continuously the same risky, extortional, and polluting dilemmas - several of which are carbon copying by the previous governments - to convince them to accept, bend the other head and consent to continue in the next few years all the programmes of anti-grass measures, to remain in force the hundreds of black laws of misery and to add others. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] What we were telling you gradually and staggered every month, every week of what they were going through - especially after September, so everything became clearer to the people as to what your course will be - they come and are unfortunately tragically confirmed. You are showing the acceptance of the anti-grassroots directions that apply to all Member States of the European Union as a tough negotiation to avoid government bankruptcy, credit suffocation or even exit from the eurozone, no matter how much your argument has been lame lately. The so-called tough negotiations concern the conditions for the slaughter of the people in order to ensure greater financing for the monopolistic groups. Your constructive convergences with the European Union, the International Monetary Fund in assessment and negotiations result in the well-known and unexplained path of restructuring that demolish our people's income and rights to give some or all impetus to capitalist profitability and growth. You accept the privatizations and baptisms of public property, as well as the primary surpluses that the people will pay diversely under the terms and limitations of social policy expenditure, but also income and pensions - depending on the codes - and the new supplementary memorandum on the basis of the famous automatic cut-off. You are in fact committed, even if there is a slight recovery, to the fact that it is not the workers who are going to recover the major losses they have had during the crisis. You have a lot of nerve to project as a radical difference with the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK the anti-fungal direction of the measures you are implementing and accepting. But the truth is, you are all serving the same goal of the capitalist recovery of the profits of the few. Your differences are about the ways, forms, mixtures, which all end up with the same tragic result: the slaughter of rights, constant sacrifices only by the workers, from the poor people's layers, precisely because all your bosses in and out of Greece require cheap labour, increasing exploitation rates, new areas of capital gaining at the expense of the people. In particular, the celebrations of the SYRIZA Congress - ANEL on the closure of the rating and the restructuring of the debt you agreed - are supposed to be - on Monday's Eurogroup, but along with the celebrations, they have left both lies and hypocrisy, since you are talking about good news. As good news, for example, you consider the evaluation to be being closed with another multi-project - 'bug'. We need to identify it to you. The measures you have brought and your previous ones do not have the bottom of the working folk layers. But you also have a special feature. It's your nerve too. How else can you be described when celebrating how you managed and closed the negotiations without voting - it says - additional measures and at the same time bring the infamous budget cut that actually provides for automatic cuts in total budget expenditure? You have the courage to say that you are avoiding horizontal measures, when you enter a tool with which all budgetary expenditure, wages, pensions, allowances, social protection expenditure may be cut. We wonder who you think you're mocking when you say that this is not extra measures. Of course, you won't cut all the costs. This reveals your character once again. You are the most dangerous servant of the capital groups, because from these cuts you exclude the Public Investment Programme and, in general, the expenditure on public procurement, that is to say, you exclude support packages for your political bosses, groups, constructions, energy, telecommunications, public procurement. How does this bring about social sensitivity and justice? It is at least funny to show as a victory that you will not cut down the farm benefits, which do not cover a small part of the survival needs of the poor people. From health expenditure, of course, what else can you cut? You haven't left anything. The state payments for your bosses, which you leave outside the cutter, are almost 10 billion euros a year and these are the costs of the state that you consider to be sacred and which you cannot touch. Even more enthusiastic is your other argument that we can celebrate in advance, since the cut may not need to, that we will catch the budget targets without its implementation with the measures we have already taken. You are trying to throw ashes into the workers' eyes, to cover up how this success means five to six billion euros extra tax revenue from the popular layers. This is your success, your continuation, the escalation of the bleeding of the workers' strata to feed the groups with fresh money. That is why political bosses and tubers are cheering them with you for that. You are also bringing enormous increases in indirect taxes. You tax without any hesitation on the working people's family. Are you interested, Mr Tsipras, ladies and gentlemen of the government, where these new taxes will be found? Your policy is pushing even deeper into the intolerability of hundreds of thousands of families, who will be forced to tighten the belt again to pay your social fair taxes. Your nerve has no limits. First, you reduce the objective values of the real estate, claiming that you are restoring injustices. Now you come and reduce the tax-free limit and drastically increase the scales of HISA. You are taxing with exhaustive rates even the parcels. You are aiming to decorate even more popular households with HICPIA. You are neither naive nor unrelated, as some in here claim. Your policy is not just a tax-blowing policy. It aims at speeding up the concentration of land and land ownership of popular families in the hands of monopolistic groups that pay little to no tax on property ownership. To throw ashes into the eyes, of course, you also introduce taxation of hotel units. You are aiming to oblige tax folk families to sell their homes and parcels in their villages to investment groups. Your friends in the European Union constantly mention the high rates of private ownership in Greece as a problem. With your system, what you are serving, you want the worker to have no ties with the earth, to be able to move where the capital needs him, to be easier to negotiate, if he is deprived of his wages, he will not have and where to stay, so that he will be more easily able to accept the new deterioration that you are preparing to him, along with your friends from BSE, who started talking about new reductions in sectoral wages through the abolition of gifts, allowances and so on. The same goal is served by the liberalisation of the red loans to which you are moving. You are giving your support to the various investment funds, to those who, when you were wearing your red rehearsal to deceive the people, you called them market crows, and today, of course, your best friends prove to be your best friends. You are giving them a great deal of mortgaged houses of hundreds of thousands of people, who are unable to repay their exorbitant debts, debts that have not been made at all by accident. They have been recommended and chosen by the same rotten system, which you today serve with religious devotion, so that people's families can put a tile over their heads. And now your friends, bankers and market crows, will choose what is mortgaged real estate they are exploited, the real estate fillets will take them in summary procedures to make use of the construction and tourist groups in the development you are planning to bring for them. For the rest, the funds will blackmail the highly indebted - of course - people's layers to do what they have and do not have so that they do not lose their homes. On paper it would be easy to tax real wealth. Put the burden of the crisis on big capital by taxing all the profits of the capital, distributed and undistributed, by denominationating all the shares of all companies and taxing their value by taxing factories and ships, by taxing the capital of the grand depositors. But instead of taxes for your friends, the monopolistic groups, their big shareholders, you are preparing new tax exemptions, new benefits, even warmer money. Ladies and gentlemen, your staff say that in 2015 global capitalist growth slowed down, while in 2016 it started with dangerous steps. The European Union itself has anticipated the adoption of the financial councils in the European Union, the euro area, which are part of the plan to further deepen EMU and enhanced financial supervision for all Member States, and especially with special clauses for countries that are in rescue programmes such as Greece. The European Union itself has anticipated memorandums of understanding for all its Member States. What SYRIZA is now establishing has been decided on in the European Union. The financial board and the automatic cut-off mechanism had legislated for him since June 2014 the New Democracy and the PASOK and you then complained to them in all tones. It's written in the Minutes what your current ministers say about other things and what the fuck are doing now. Workers say we must have their eyes fourteen. They have the right and obligation to filter every information, every statement, every speech they hear in here, not to be tampered with, not to subjugate their action according to one or another's policy, not to be in a state of cold, when heat. The position and the view that extremist austerity is not a founding rule of the European Union must be condemned as an ash in the eyes, as a huge lie covering the very character of the European Union. The attitude of the European Union has not changed in these years of the crisis. It has always been a one-way only for the interests of pluralism. In both development conditions and crisis conditions, the European Union is a body in which the monopolies have power. It is the European Spatial Guard - to say otherwise - of the profits of the major business groups. The European Union has not changed its attitude to the Greek people, as the Prime Minister makes fun of what he said at the previous meeting. The European allies of the Greek Government are implementing the same anti-grassroots measures in their country. First and foremost, the French government's friend, Olad, who has the whole of the French people, who is mobilising against the new anti-corruption measures, which are of course next generations, because they aim to ensure even more flexible, cheap labour force for large capital. Workers in France are turning against the law of the French Government that actively facilitates redundancies, widens the scope of the great employer to adapt its working hours to its needs, to the logic of settling working hours, as has been done in other countries and Greece. It enhances operational employment contracts by effectively disposing of sectoral collective labour agreements. And this anti-government abortion, the Olad government won't pass it through the House, since it will legislate by presidential decrees. "With any teacher sitting, you will learn such letters," Mr. Tsipras. That is why Olad and the rest of the European Union, Shoeble, the big capital, give their credit now to the government. That is why they support you, since you implement and vote for all the measures proposed by them and, of course, in the Eurogroup after you decide on them. Ladies and gentlemen, promote the new WIDD, with which you hand over to the local and foreign monopolies real estate fillets and state-owned businesses. Your goal is to create new profit fields for their overcompensated funds. New losses will only have the poor populace layers, which will pay even more water, transport and transport. Will the air ticket, for example, be reduced or increased by privatising the airports at which you went? All of this tells us how the new ESRB comes, how they will fall into the market of 2 billion euros in 2016 and how you obtain 5 billion additional funds from creditors for the repayment of outstanding debts. Who are you kidding? The lion's share of the new NRP concerns your friends, groups, their great shareholders. The resources of the NRP go to large projects that are based on infrastructures, other environmental protection, third entrepreneurship. You claim that workers' problems will be solved by capitalist development. You're laughing twice as much. From nowhere does it appear that Greece's economy will quickly take off the next period, even more if you consider the negative signs that appear in the international economy and how open the Greek capitalist economy is to such international developments. But let's make the devil's lawyer. Let us assume that your notorious development comes and, in fact, speedily, as you say. What will the workers gain? This must be about everyone. Will they take back the employment relationships, the wages they have lost, the exhaustive tax that you're subjecting them to? Your friends in BSE are calling for the dismantling of collective labour contracts, wage cuts, abolition of allowances. Your development passes through the increased degree of exploitation of workers. The promise of attracting investment that will bring jobs is promises that no anti-grass law of those who have been voted in here will be abolished. Mostly they are promises in the chapter for its full support. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the famous privatisations, today throughout the capitalist world, regardless of the form, it is a general feature of reducing state participation. The privatizations have their territory of liberalisation on the markets, they serve to concentrate and centralise capital, of course under conditions here of the Euro-Union market. The state business sector is not a permanent situation, otherwise it would be counterproductive to capitalist production. It prepares the territory of the capitalist accumulation where large funds are needed with a very high risk of profit, such as infrastructure, energy and other sectors. Privatisations give workers the opportunity to understand better how they should view from their own point of view the question of the need for socialisation today of production, the nature and role of the current public sector. Even if an enterprise stays in the state for various reasons or returns to the state, this is not a real solution to the problem and to the fairness of their struggles, because the consequences for them in terms of exploitation and overthrowing of industrial relations or their social security, etc., will continue to exist and new measures will come, of course. In other words, even if some companies remain state-owned, the general trend cannot be reversed, since this concerns not individual choices of the current government or the previous governments, but the capitalist system itself. The connection with private capital, whether Greek or foreign, is a given one, as is market liberalisation and others. But the New Democracy and the other parties are moving in exactly the same direction. This system and the European Union's choices serve. The criticism is on individual sides. That is why, when they focus only on the price of these demilitarisations, when they find one - two corrupt, lame, to discuss in this House what other than these essentials, for which everyone raises their hand here - your MPs today - and they vote in this House, in order for the Greek people to vacate again, to suffer poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, in Thessalonica a few days ago, the construction of the Trans-Agreement of Natural Gas, TAP, took place in the presence of the leaders of the transit countries. The presence at the inauguration of the representatives of the Commission and the United States of America shows that the construction of energy infrastructure, that is to say, of the energy arteries - as they call them - is necessary to move the gears of the capitalist economy, is linked to the ongoing dispute over who will control the energy reserves, their transport routes and the market shares. This shows the presence of the representatives of these imperialist forces at the inauguration, when it is known that these own forces have done everything to block the Russian energy plans in the Balkans for the rehab of the European Union by Russia. It is also known that the United States aims to reduce Europe's energy dependence on Russia, as well as weakening the German-Russian relationship and by escalating the conflict in Ukraine. Of course, part of this imperialist dog fight here, we have seen for another year and this year's recent EUROVINSION humiliation. Of course, the business groups will benefit from the construction of the TAP rather than the employees. That's how it happens in this system here. Everyone recognizes this, except at various times opportunistic right-wing and left-wing opportunists, in the name of communists other than left-wing people, who are blazing when they hear the JRC say clearly, and then that only when the people really conquer their own power can they ensure mutually advantageous transnational cooperation in the energy sector in order to satisfy the people's needs. In fact, only when you have drawn up a radically different path of development with socialisation of domestic energy and infrastructure sources, with the release from the European Union and NATO such projects can be exploited in the light of popular prosperity and not the profitability of capital, and not, in other words, be an outbreak of intra-imperialist contradictions and competition. The TAP inauguration also shows how waste those who promised that such projects would become objective factors for the stability, security and peace of the countries involved. The project involved Greece, Albania, but that was no reason to solve the problems in Greek-Albanian relations. I am referring here to the issues of the EEZ. On the other hand, all indications show that we have been moving in recent times to increasing doubts of this kind. The project involves Greece and Turkey, of course. However, this was not able to solve problems in Greek-Turkish relations. It was not able to overthrow the provocation by which the Turkish bourgeoisie under the leadership of Erdogan intensifies the violations of Greek airspace, disputes of sovereign rights in the Aegean. Ladies and gentlemen, lately SYRIZA has given leftist and radical lessons. He says in today's difficult conditions left and radical it is not to fantasize an ideal society and so on that we have heard both here and the Prime Minister. Of course everyone knows - and the Greek people who are listening to us - that our difference with SYRIZA is not that we are fighting for another ideal society, as SYRIZA says, in a different way each party. Our difference is that the SYRIZA party is fighting, it may even bleed, we do not see, for capitalist society, for this system that is rotten, which is exploitable, which only has to give is poverty, unemployment, wars. It struggles for the same struggles between the New Democracy and the PASOK and other urban parties. Mr. Tsipras is struggling to overcome his difficulties with capitalism. That's why he manages his judgment, so he says the society that fights the JRC is not easy to come, is ideal, etc. And since it's not easy to come, he tells the worker, the unemployed, the farmer, the self-employed "keep here in capitalism, learn to live, another with little, another with nothing, don't complain, don't fight out on the streets", as in a few hours' time they move out of the House of Trade Unions, employees of Athens and other cities of the country for something that is not at all and easy to come. SYRIZA, like the other parties of anti-popular management in the final analysis, is struggling and can bleed it out so that the society for which the JRC is fighting never comes. But the social system for which the JRC is fighting is not fantasy, it is not a simple idea, a vision, it is a goal, we say, toward conquest. Since 1917 this road has been opened. Despite the historical temporary setbacks, today, we can now, by exploiting all this huge experience, positive and negative, from the construction of socialism that we have known in the 20th century, say clearly that the JRC's proposal can be implemented, get flesh and bones in both Greece and other countries today. And this can be the real new Greece, being the new society, both in Greece and in Europe, and in the whole world.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, fifty-three years ago, Gregory Lambrakis was murdered. His murder by extreme right-wing elements and by the para-state of that time returns to our memory more timely than ever, making us responsible for defending democracy and peace against voices of hatred that come back from darkness. Gregory Lambrakis rightly has his place on the pages of the history of this place. I'd be very grateful if we could keep a minute's silence. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] His memory is eternity. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have said that at 6 p.m. we will proceed to the roll-call vote on some seventy articles, if I have been correctly informed by all the articles, by different parliamentary groups who have applied for them. For the economy of the meeting, we will be following the following procedure, which was tabled in the morning by President Kaklamanis, with the agreement of the Bureau: Now, for five minutes each, the rapporteurs and the special speakers will speak, even though the procedure was uniform both at the outset and on the articles, as they are today - to comment and say opinions. That's five minutes. Immediately afterwards, the political leaders will talk unless a political leader wants to speak before, there is no objection, but to follow this process. It is about forty minutes for the general rapporteurs of the parties. To close this cycle and then we will have five of the parliamentary representatives who had not taken the time of dentistry yesterday and who would also have the right to place up to eight minutes, if possible and, of course, the political leaders. In the middle of the second cycle, at least five, six, seven, Members will be able to come in to a greater number of Members. I would very much ask that this procedure be followed. Mr Christos Stakoras has the floor on behalf of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u236	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of State spoke a moment ago about the Objection of the Objection Officer. Does he really know what obidial transformation means? It means promise to rip up the memos and bring in the draft law permanent memos. It means promise to dismantle the ENPIA and the draft law to maintain and increase the ENPIA. It means promises you won't cut pensions and the draft law to abolish the NSA. It means promises you won't cut wages, and with the draft law to cut off the special wages. It means promise to "no house in the hands of a banker" and you transfer everything to the funds. It means promises that there will be no demilitarization, because it is a sale of property and the establishment of a Demilitarization Fund for a century. That's not even a delusion. It's called political courage! You're turning, gentlemen, to triumphant. We have heard these days four things from all colleagues in the Chamber. We have heard that the measures are 5.4 billion euros and not a single euro. Where did you find them and where did you see them? Ladies and gentlemen, 5.4 billion are the ones you voted on last month! It's the direct taxes, the indirect taxes and the new pension bill. It's not what you voted on last year. Did you forget that? No VAT increase is included from 13% to 23%. That's not at 5.4 billion. The increase in tax advances to all citizens is not at 5.4 billion. The increase and the imposition of health contributions for main pensions and supplementary pensions are not at 5.4 billion. Lies have short feet and unfortunately the truth is experienced by the citizens. We have heard all the co-chairmen and the Minister of State say: 'We have reduced budgetary targets and saved 20 billion euros'. As far as I can see, you all have the same number. Here really economic science raises hands up. In fact, since when does the achievement of budgetary objectives depend only on the objectives and not on the progress and dynamics of the economy? If that were the case today, since 2015 and 2016 we have lower budgetary targets, we should be talking about reductions in taxes and increases in wages and pensions. Since the targets are lower, why do you not bring a bill with tax reductions and increases in wages and pensions? For the very simple reason that the economy has returned and is maintained in recession. So, on the contrary, today, we are talking about a tsunami of taxes, and we are talking about reductions in wages in special wages, we are talking about abolishing the CSCE. Under the responsibility of this unreserved government, the country has returned and remains in the recession.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u237	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u238	And it has lost, as the President of New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, has said, 21 billion euros in 2015 and 2016. The European Commission's comparable studies, which I present in the Minutes, confirm that. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned studies, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thirdly, we heard from the majority Members that the government achieved the targets in 2015. First of all, have you not used the primary surpluses of the past? The truth is that the 2015 result is due to the internal posture of payments. The government’s dues increased by EUR 2.5 billion in 2015. It is also due to additional measures such as increasing VAT and reducing main and ancillary pensions from 2015 onwards. On the contrary, in the previous two years, primary surpluses were achieved by reducing taxes, paying due debts and paying four times as high as 2015 social dividends. Only the political courage of SYRIZA would allow today to be described as a success. Finally, we have heard from the majority Members that for the first time the government is opening up the question of debt regulation. The government responsible for burdening its viability, the government which has been developing illusions with free debt haircuts, today sees as a success the implementation of regulations discussed since 2012. And, of course, it avoids double restructuring with a haircut, in fact, of debt, the lengthening of bonds, the reduction of interest rates, the reduction of interest rates in previous years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Stavura, please, I'll give you a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u240	Thank you very much. And if you question her, the Prime Minister does not question her. He signed it in July and I'll testify it for the Minutes. It has signed that the measures taken in previous years have helped the country's debt sustainability and its service path. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Inaccurateness and falsehood are a structural element of the Left Government. In conclusion, New Democracy is voting against tax increases, the permanent and automatic fiscal correction mechanism, the establishment of the new Social Security Fund, the establishment of incoherent administrative structures, the reduction of wages with the freezing of wage promotions on special wages. We have put with our Parliamentary representative, Mr Dendas, specific questions and we need specific answers for Articles 56 and 106. And we ask you to accept the amendment - an addition that we tabled to abolish a recent provision on the disposal of real estate by the Olympic Folliro Pole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr. Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u242	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law confirms that SYRIZA, a supposedly hard negotiator, became fully submissive. SYRIZA from supposedly warfare of memorials, without moral inhibitors, without ideological coordinates, votes for everything, even permanent memorials, even a single-century Deprivation Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Before giving Mr Spartino the floor, Minister Stathakis has asked to make some legislative improvements. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u244	These are three legislative improvements to the Red Loan Act. The first concerns companies that will acquire such loans from countries as provided for in the provision. The words ‘... which, in accordance with their statutes, may acquire debts from loans and credits subject to the provisions of European Union law’ shall be added. The latter is added in order to make the framework clearer and more stringent. The second provision, which improves, states that companies operating and licensed - understood - by the Bank of Greece, must present methods of restructuring debts alternative to enforcement under the 2014 Ethics Code and the Executive Committee Act. It therefore essentially introduces the concept of not being forced to carry out executions before they have exhausted all the margins provided for by the legislation. The third improvement relates to the amendment of the 2006 securitisation law, which provided for 100 euros in the mortgages. At the suggestion of the Ministry of Justice, this amount is intended for all transfers to be increased to EUR 2,500.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Minister. I would ask that they be submitted and distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u246	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u247	The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Spartinos, then Mr Panayotaros, has the floor. I would ask that the time be retained, as we have agreed before. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u248	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we proceed towards the completion of this four-day process, together with the committees, and the culmination of the procedure is approaching with the positions of the political leaders - which have already begun - I would like to make two, three comments. This process began within the committees with one, I would say, a peculiarity between two parties, which neither wants to be identified between them, between the New Democracy and the Golden Dawn, for who will take the sceptres into overcoming and overcoming the accepted parliamentary practices so that they do not start, to delay - I do not know exactly why, they know him - this process. I must say that, since yesterday, these phenomena may have stopped, I hope, because the New Democracy began to find that such competition did not benefit it. But probably this bra de ferret is also due to another de ferrette that we read in all the newspapers that it was playing these days - and, in my opinion, we saw it a little while ago in the Step by putting Mr Stamatis - a bore de ferret between Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Samaras, which may have sparked the first controversy I have mentioned. And so we have lost the opportunity to hear statements from the Civic Opposition and from other parties, which have a completely opposite opinion from the government, to hear proposals put together, differently, very differently, which would help this process. I have nothing to say about the rapporteur of the New Democracy, who, yesterday and today, had a truly parliamentary morale in his report. However, even though it was not only caused by me, but by all the SYRIZA speakers and ministers, it did not result in any concrete and overall counter-proposal for this 1% of GDP, which we must cover on the basis of the agreement that we and others signed in August 2015. Society, ladies and gentlemen, knows where the country was in the summer of 2015 and knows who has the main responsibility for this situation. It also knows - it is seen by talking about any citizen - that today society is at a critical turning point. We are at a time when we will be judged first, absolutely, the government, but the agreement will be judged, if you will, which was signed in the summer of 2015 and those who signed it after the government, along with the government, will also be judged. But, as I have said before, an alternative proposal from the netting parties has not been heard and I do not know whether we will then hear from the Head of the New Democracy. They're wrong if they think that just because they're not in the government, they're relieved of any responsibility. They've got their signatures too. And I would say that those who gave a negative vote this summer in this agreement are also judged whether and whether they have put forward a convincing alternative, which, in our view, needs to start from today, going to tomorrow, to the nearest and far but not backwards. I therefore believe that in the difficult economic and budgetary environment that we are today, in the difficult climate of political correlations of power within Europe, there are no excellent solutions. But there are better solutions to reduce, that is, minimise, counteract negative effects and maximize, as far as you can, positive effects. On this realistic but also hopeful basis, the Greek people have trusted us and waited for the results to be judged by us and everyone else. Let not everyone else forget that. And I would like to end, Mr President, with a comment. I have heard a lot of colleagues from the opposition, particularly on the side of the parties that have been ruling up to now, very much about this four-day thing about our soul, our conscience and our reputation. I would like to advise them, because saving the soul, as we all know, is a very big thing, to deal with the salvation of their own soul and not take the burden of saving our own souls and our own consciences. For their reputation they are known to be very concerned and will certainly continue to be involved. That is why there is no doubt about it. But we have already been told that we are voting on what we are voting on because we are interested in our chairs. We are interested in our chairs, many Members have told us, some of whom are twenty or thirty years of MPs and have long ministerial mandates.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u249	And their parents and grandparents!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u250	I would therefore say that when the official institutional debate on possible restrictions on the mandate of Members of Parliament and Ministers comes, they should vote and vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u251	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u252	Indeed, those who have a long way to go to these benches also to vote for the retrospective application of these rules and not to tell us that they are not allowed to constitutionally. I don't know if I'm allowed constitutionally or not, I'm not a lawyer...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u253	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u254	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u255	You're done with this'short soul'. It was total.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u256	Let them look a little at the mirror of society themselves, to see what society thinks and what a reputation they have created in society.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u257	Thank you very much, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u258	Because some of them, when they were talking and saying these and making these attacks, they brought me to mind...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u259	Mr. Spartin, friend and colleague, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u260	I shall conclude, Mr President. So I was brought to mind a verse from George Seferis's "Last Station" that says: "Pieces stricken by public sins". The more this characterization suits some, the more aggressive, the more intriguing and unrealistic it was their attack on the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u261	Thank you. I left you more time for Seferis, because the children we're going to announce now are here to think that in the House we are discussing with the lyrics of Seferis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, forty-seven students and apprentices and ten educational attendants from the 7th Eleftherios Cordeliou Thessaloniki and from the 3rd Eleftherios Kilkis School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Panayotarus has the floor on behalf of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] SYRIZA's rapporteur ended with Seferis, and we will recite a little Suri, who at the end of the 19th century wrote very good poems. He must have been a prophet too, for he probably would have had the government in mind, you and the previous ones from you. I read from the "Second Report of Economics": "Who saw a mere state in all the earth alone, one hundred to exodus and fifty to gather? Do you have clerks for guard and be stolen out of sight? And while they were stealing you, the thief was looking? Thieves, poor and rulers, carriages and chariots, thieves without a cubit of land and thieves with palaces. One steals hens and shepherds for bread, the other nation assembles for riches and honor. Your misfortune, Ellas, with the children you bear! Oh, Greece, heroic country, what donkeys you are making now!" It has written other very interesting poems and one which I present in the Minutes, which would probably express the opinion of all Greeks on this rotten post-cultural system. It is entitled "A perfumed poem", which I submit in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the Minutes the above poem, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You are all co-responsible for this drama which is taking place in this country, this drama against an entire nation, for the genocide which you are committing against it with the sequence of four memoranda. Because what you are going to vote on today is another memorandum, the last one, the tombstone that includes everything and does not exclude anything at all. And speaking of genocide, let's read two rats from what's genocide. It is any of the following acts aimed at partial or total extinction of a racial, national or religious group, such as: First, killing the members of the group. If it reminds you of anything that's going on in our homeland, where our fellow citizens are murdered, robbed, killed, killed, killed. Secondly, it causes serious physical or mental harm to members of the group. Go to all the madhouses to see where they're filled and they're the only ones that grow! Thirdly, it is appropriate to impose conditions of life for natural extinction, total or partial, members of the group. Fourthly, the imposition of measures aimed at preventing birth within the group. We've started downwards at birth, so in 2060 we're probably a minority in that country. Fifthly, it is the violent transfer of minors from the group to another. If that's what he's telling you, even though it's probably a lot of people who don't say anything at all. Where the Left passed, he usually left debris. You, of course, are the first ones, because for the first time you will leave nothing. You'll be an innovation all over the world. As much as you are trying to make fun of yourself - of course some of you have admitted that with soul pain, you said "unfortunately, we will vote, we can't do it otherwise" - you alone prove that the measures you have brought are measures that you take out of the difficult position of the gentlemen and ladies of the New Democracy, who would be very happy to vote for them rather than with soul pain, if it were government. And that may have been the big trick, so that when you leave power, since all this has been voted on and they are coming back, as usual, unless something else changes, the gentlemen of the so-called centre-left right - we do not know exactly what it is - have the justification that 'after the previous ones have voted, we cannot get it back'. Like you, when you were saying other things, you started from what you said in Thessaloniki, then you went to the parallel programme, now you have - no one knows - of any other rehabilitation programme - we do not know exactly what - and for all that the Greek people voted for you, it put you in Parliament, it gave you apologies for the second time and with the referendum it wanted and backed up to be part of some of what you said, you did nothing at all. The Greek citizens should know that since tonight, after these measures will be voted on, their lives will be completely different. They will understand it day after day, because all these measures that will be voted on will not be implemented in one day and one week, but they will be measures that will be completed within the next one and a half years. So remember some people who told them and when they were at 0.27% and when they were at 7% and when they would be at 14% who, as one last survey showed, is the Golden Dawn and will always tell them and will get absolutely nothing back. Golden Dawn will always be in front of the struggles for Greece, Greekism, against all those who are working to break up this proud Greek nation, against the loan sharks domestically imported and the old ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u263	Thank you for keeping your time. Mr Koutsoukos, spokesman for the PASOK - DIMAR, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to concentrate on the political conclusions and focus on three - four conclusions, which have been drawn during the debate, as, as you have seen, we are in a dynamic legislative process, which are constantly being presented with new and of particular importance. So with regard to central issues, we, the Democratic Reconciliation, believe that the statutory and binding arrangements of this bill affect the core of democratic institutions, namely Parliament and also raise issues of popular sovereignty. These are those relating mainly to the excess, but also to the so-called cutting point and the 'cosmetic' to the General Secretariat of Public Revenue. I would say that for every left, which may have had dreams, what we are going to vote on today will turn dreams into nightmares. And I wish he could live a hundred years - although we can't live another hundred years - but for a hundred years these arrangements will be taken over by the Left. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out, because he has noticed that during the entire process that we are discussing they are entering and leaving the EBRD in the WID. The EBRD, as you perceived, no longer manages public property, takes all the property. What he recommends and substantiates our complaint is that this superstition goes to all the public property. The Participating Company takes all the rights of the public and challenged yesterday the Minister responsible, presenting the table, the property list, I would say, of the participations, which are close to 79 billion, to tell us if this is going to the new superstate, but we did not get a reply. Of course, there are buildings in the public interest, so that Mr. Katrugalos, who is a professor, can't be dived. The cutter is a permanent memorandum. We did. But what matters is that the government rejoices and says, "it is our inspiration, because otherwise we were asked to make cuts now". But you, ladies and gentlemen, have formulated a policy that led you to accept EUR 12.5 billion by 2018. You won't charge us what you did. It is clear that in this package of 12.5 billion is the 1.8 billion that we are voting on today, which will be paid by ordinary people, the majority. It is proof that the ordinary citizen has reached the limit of the burden-sharing capacity, that it is the rapid increase in the deadlines. I do not know what Mr Alexiadis says, but the tables published by the Secretariat-General for Public Revenue show that citizens can no longer fulfil their obligations, and that is why overtaxation is in a material climate that will fail and lead the government to need new measures. I would like to remind my dear colleague, Mr Brutsi, that the reduced VAT on the islands, my dear colleague, has been introduced by the PASOK Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u265	Hey, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u266	Hello?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u267	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u268	The PASOK government, which first applied VAT to Greece, established him. And because I know what I'm saying, you have the ability to look into it and clarify it between us. A word about the loans. In the way you legislate, the case of loans leads to a redistribution of wealth within Greece and outside Greece. And because someone from this Step had said in the past that the damages will stay in Greece and the profits will go out, the damaged will be Greek and the winners will be out. And to finish my time, ladies and gentlemen, I must first observe to the first Minister of Government, the one responsible for government propaganda, that he cannot lie from this Step. PASOK had the protection of the first home at 300,000 euros, SYRIZA took it with the previous legislation to EUR 180,000, with this arrangement going to EUR 140,000 and from EUR 1-1-2017 to zero. That's the truth on the basis of the bill. There are three crucial amendments. Mr Skourletis with an amendment annulled Law 4269/2014 and turned us to a Presidential Decree of 1987.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u269	Mr. Comrade, finish in a minute. Share the three amendments in this minute. You are a very experienced and excellent speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u270	Mr President, I will do what you say to me, but you must know that they have been tabled late, with the tolerance of the Bureau, by the three Ministers and I have one minute to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u271	You have another 20 seconds for what you said. Go ahead, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u272	So I say that, with this amendment, Mr Skourletis punishes those of us who have helped with Mr Maniotis' bill to solve problems not only of large investment but also of small investments, such as a oven, a hairdresser, within a residential web. What will Members of the Tower say to such a small professional? The second one is Mr. Katrugalos. Mr. Katrugalos gets back the reduced contribution to the free traders. You understand, ladies and gentlemen, what are you voting on? You deceived them that you're making reduced contributions and now you get it back. The last one is Mrs. Fotio. I've said it took a year and a half to change name to the Minimum Guaranteed Income. We'll vote for it. But to take out the arrangement that gets the CSCE back, it's illegal. Ladies and gentlemen - and, Mr President, thank you for the tolerance - serious complaints have been heard from this Step towards graceful arrangements in great interests and the government must respond very specifically. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u273	Thank you very much. Mr. Amyras from the river has the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, because the whole process will be kept with an agreed seriousness and rigour, I inform you that immediately after that, Mr. Kamfast by the ANELs and Mr. Georgiadis by the Centroon Association, we will be able to close the five-point cycle of the rapporteurs. If the honourable Members are not here, they will not be given the floor later. He'll say they've been covered. That's what this is about. It's not a formal matter. But the process will not change later. Mr. Amyra, here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after four days of intense and meticulous debates - in some areas we have been deeply involved, some others have been treated skinally, some have remained completely outside the field of view of this House - the time for the critical moment. It is time that we all have to take a step behind the tension and, of course, put each one on a number of issues, and consider something simple: if this bill, which is, in fact, the occult, the ending of the nine-month new negotiation of the government with the institutions, as the quintussy of everything that has happened and preceded the previous nine months, it is something good or bad for the country. We must consider what we are gaining. Do we win in money? Are we gaining credibility on international allies? Do we get anything tangible about the debt, which we can see is reflected in a provision of the two hundred and thirty-three articles of this draft law? For now, what we certainly know is what we're losing. All Greeks will be poor. From the coffee they drink to the Internet they use, they will be taxed more. However, we also lose to national authority or, if you like, to national confidence. Proof is that we will have a budget cut over our heads for twenty years. It is a demonstration of the failure of the Greek society, the Greek state, over time, which reached us at such a point that by Brussels the monitoring of the budgetary aspects of this country will take place. Our national self-confidence, however, is taken with the superstition for nine nine years with an administration that is clearly controlled by foreigners, by our lenders. These are signs that lead us to conclude that this austerity we have been in for many years is endless. And it's not just the six years we've entered the endless austerity. There's 20 more behind, the ones of fake prosperity. Because when the balloon broke out, the smile down all those who were underneath. And those underneath were almost the entire Greek population. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the articles of the tax bill are unfair and we will vote against them. We're going to vote against the cutter. However, we are not negative or ideological, as we claim to be enough of your ministers. We believe that the establishment of the Independent Public Income Authority should be done. We consider it a positive step. A part of the decisive competence that, in essence, controls the country's fiscal and fiscal life must operate differently, in other terms and rules. However, we disagree with the way in which this Independent Public Income Authority is being established. Of course, it's not independent. It looks independent, but it's not. It's more controlled than foreigners. That is why we will be voting against the articles on its recommendation. We've had a lot of trouble, dear Deputy Minister, Mr. Chironi, for forests. We think the step is positive that, with these regulations, 95% of forest areas can finally be released for protection, it can be disconnected, that is, from where the 'grey areas' exist, arbitrary and settlements within the forests. However, we are not yet convinced of how you will manage the term 'economy'. We want, if you take the floor, even more clarifications on that. Ladies and gentlemen, at this critical hour citizens demand, in the gravity of this verb, that all parties and political forces agree. We're constantly with the back wall as a country. Citizens demand consultation. They demand that the common good be conscientious. To conclude, Mr President, with the demand of the Greek society for all political forces to meet at least five fundamentally, in five minimum national supremacy, we have the saying - and with it I will close - of Barack Obama: "As long as we despise the logic, as long as we despise the numbers and the reality, then the truth will always return, but as another avenger." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u275	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mr Chakalotos has the floor to clarify something. Mr. Cironi, would you like the floor too? Is that legal? I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he would like to make a statement on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u276	About something that's been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u277	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say that I accept in the draft legislative amendment with a general number 453 and a special number 97, which is about retiring primary and secondary education. I must also say that for the amendment with a general number of 442 and a special number of 86, for the exemption from HNVIA of permanent residents on islands with a population of less than three hundred inhabitants, we look at it very positively and the government will come back with targeted intervention very soon. I am also making legislative improvements. The procedure for the termination of the new Income Authority shall be laid down in Article 16. Article 44 clarifies who are covered by Article 29 of the Income Tax Act, farmers, who are tax-free. Article 56 clarifies the procedure for revenue...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u279	Please be quiet. Mr. Kamaterre, don't fight Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u280	No matter, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u281	In the rest, verbal corrections are made. I am also tabling a legislative report on the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u282	A question was raised by Mr Tsironi. Don't open a circle under any circumstances. I won't allow it. Here, Mr. Cironi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr President. I owed Mr. Amyras this clarification from the day before yesterday. It is clear in the wording that all we do in the viral areas is to ask the municipalities to record in the forests and in today's forests the houses, the built-up space - three hundred, four hundred - and to create some polygons so that then, instead of being treated by the Forest Service, they can be categorised as a whole so that we can clarify and know what was legalized once, what has rights, what is the acquisition time. So far we have never had this picture, that and nothing more. Forestry legislation shall apply without delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Minister. The Minister, Mr. Xanthos, has the floor. Immediately afterward, one or two Members follow and we will go with Mr Loverdos to five of the Members of Parliament. Minister, eight minutes are enough for you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u285	Yeah, it's okay. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start from a brief reference to an article in the Multi-Project, Article 68, on the introduction of a special class of medicines, the general disposal of medicines. This is a subcategory of non-prescribed medicines and as many of you know, there was the loose end of the summer Memorandum of Understanding to be settled. We made a serious attempt at scientific documentation. There was a committee of experts from the EOF, with the participation of the Pan-Hellenic Pharmaceutical Association, which resulted in a specific proposal. In this way we have been able to ensure that around 87% of the current non-prescribed medicines have as their sole disposal space the pharmacies and only 12% to 13% can be made available outside the pharmacy. This percentage is mostly related to safe administration and choice by the patient without the necessary advice of the pharmacist. In this way - as with the previous negligence, which existed under the pharmacies' pharmacies' pharmacies - I believe that without renouncing the basic obligation to liberalise the drug market, we are putting safeguards and clauses which allow this new environment to fail to create problems in public health and not to adversely affect the sustainability of pharmacies, which I think we all recognise are playing a very important social role with their geographical dispersion throughout the country. I think that, by analogy, what the government is doing as a whole - and this is reflected in this multi-brand plan - is to do the same thing. This means that given the Memorandum of Understanding, given the obligation to comply with the agreed, and with the prerequisites and all other interventions and measures to be taken in the light of the evaluation, there will be some arrangements to ensure a fairer burden-sharing, of course, public interest, and social cohesion, but also of course public property. In addition, there will be room for a vital space for compensatory interventions with a positive social dimension, such as those which we have already begun to implement by the n. 4368, the well-known parallel program. I am referring to the well-known regulation on universal coverage of uninsured citizens for their free access to public health services, which has already started to operate and produce relief effects for thousands of citizens, who in recent years had been exposed and helpless at the time of illness and who were financially burdened with unbearable debts when they had to be hospitalised. These days, in my view, a debate is taking place at high tone. There's an incredible catastrophe. I would remind you that we have been listening to this catastrophe for too many months without being actually confirmed. There are excesses, like an unbearable shallow, I would say, of political controversy. But what is really causing us to give up on populism and demagogy, at the moment when it is really the definition of populism and demagogy, voting against pro-collegiate koruna measures from an agreement that you voted for, without saying what the different alternatives are, without proposing other equivalent measures, without saying what costs should be cut to avoid any new burdens and without saying how there will be tax revenues to support the social state. I therefore believe that this highlights the intrinsic unreliability of a large part of the political system, but also of its median columns, which are reproducing this debate these days. We, ladies and gentlemen, have made a crucial choice. We have also made this crucial choice in the judgement of the majority of citizens. We know very well that there is discomfort in society, there is frustration, there is anger, but we also know that in this society there is also an understanding of difficulties, an understanding of restrictions, tolerance and an effort and an understanding of the need to support an effort that the government is currently making to get out of this vicious circle of austerity. I think that understanding has an explanation. The explanation is, firstly, that the government has against it an opposition arch with structural anomaly, which no one trusts, because they are well known and registered for life and its state, secondly, because our government, SYRIZA, the 'first time left', as you like to fight, really has nothing to do with the plight of the old political system, of which you are part and you have recurred in the past, and, of course, because it has realised that we really did what we could. We may not have done so, we may not have had the desired results and the necessary results, but today we will continue, even if we are seized, to fight to the end to ensure that there is a sustainable way out, with society standing on the subject of the crisis. We in this government therefore do not invest in despair, but in hope. We're not investing in disaster, but in recovery. We are primarily investing in the ongoing struggle to change the social and political links. That's the bottom line of the left around the world. So because we are not going to stay in the convenient corner of revolutionary cleanliness, but we will do what is going through our hand to support a society that is lurking and, of course, there is no serious alternative, we are sure that we will succeed and with us in society and the country
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u286	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Andreas Loverdos has the floor. Then it will be Mr. Dendias, then Mr. Cassidyris, Mr. Dannelis, Mr. Kokalis, but in between it will be one, at least, MP on the list. So Mrs. Tyloridou and Mr. Giannakis, Pavlides, Igoumenides, are ready. It is a question of absorbing two more - three after the ones I mentioned. I'm telling you straight away. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to remind you of something. Other colleagues did it. Methodologically I use it, it's recorded in our collective memory. I would like to remind you of a phrase from the current Prime Minister and then from the head of the opposition party. He asked it as a question - reproaching the then Minister of Finance, Mr Papaconstantinou, on matters relating to the property of the Greek State. He said: “Is it possible to make decisions on the future of the next generations? The Greek people cannot stand it." He told him about something that neither Papandreou agreed to do, nor Papademos agreed to do, nor Samaras agreed to do, nor did the Prime Minister himself agree to do, as he announced the night of the terrible negotiation in July 2015. Here today, ladies and gentlemen, the eternal legal nature of the waste. The people, ladies and gentlemen, did not hear the saying, which he sometimes says, 'vote the one who promises less, because you will be less disappointed'. He had an experiment and had what he said again: "You look at Heaven? In a well you will fall." What are you going to say, ladies and gentlemen, to the majority, that others sad enough to vote here today? Will you print T-shirts that will change the "Greece is not for sale" and write the "sold as furnished", said prophetically by your colleague Mr Papadimoulis in earlier times? To testify for whoever's curious. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As much as you pretend to be majority colleagues - at least some of you - that you are sad at all this and you are sighing, as lagada's sighsmen, I would like to tell you that these are experiences and experiences. The citizens are furious with you and several of them apologize for what they have said or done against us. I would advise friendlyly to see a video online that has statements from citizens following the January 2015 elections and after the referendum on what people had hoped for. I don't hear those words as funny. I hear them as a tragedy of people who have been deceived, if anyone sees their words with what you do and with what is happening today. And what are you going to tell the citizens tomorrow Monday? Will you tell them, besides being sad, what some majority MPs say is raining billions? How are you gonna say that? Last night a colleague, Mr. Barriotas from Potami, said with a dose of exaggeration that growth is not Karanika's sister or cousin to come when you call her. It's a heavy process that presupposes your ability to run a very difficult administrative Greek state. It's not enough to have the money. You need to be able to get them and that requires skills, bold, appropriate legislative framework and concrete actions. I am saying this about the development and rain of billions to make a reference to a specific amendment. Mr. Skourletis is not here, but Mr. Tsironis is here. Mr. Koutsoukos also made a report. He didn't have much time to develop it. I'll do it. It is Amendment No 449/93. Minister, there were too many problems created by bureaucracy with town planning in the development field. Legislation, as completed by the Decree - Decree in 1987, created very many problems in small, medium-sized and large investors. Many times the officials told the citizens, who were going: 'the law is vague', 'what to do', 'come from Monday, if we can find a solution', and the years have passed. In cooperation with the TEI - and if I say something out of hand, Mr Spirtz may explain it to you - Mr. Spirtz was voted on, according to which some small, medium-sized, large investment projects and some investments have begun. I am referring to both Attica and Corfu. Mr Koutsoukos mentioned Elia and many colleagues can say from their own experience. Why are you taking it back? Don't laugh. He laughs, who doesn't know which ministry he's running, he doesn't know how many difficulties he's getting in front of everyday life. And from tomorrow morning - because from tomorrow you start ruling, because so far you have been saying various things, which have proved to be untrue and lies - the smiles will be wiped out, dear Minister. Because you will see what citizens are pulling from bureaucratic delays, coming to multiply them supposedly to develop strategic planning. How's that gonna happen? How will there be growth when you make life harder for economic society, for small, medium-sized, large? The second amendment to the committee, Article 234 of the draft law today, very serious and as a specific issue and as a general, ladies and gentlemen, concerns whether it is a method. You've been through a tragic insurance policy. You took money instead of making insurance change, and you golded in some parts of the pill. The issue of reductions in increased contributions you presented as colours of pill for young mainly freelance workers. You said that for the main pensions, reimbursements, medical benefits, no. You are abolishing this provision by Article 234, which you presented as a pill. Mr. Koutsoukos has also been mentioned. Is that a method? Is that a method? You voted for something you voted on 15 days ago. Everything you're going to give, will you change it week after week, in line with the difficulties that will arise? Third matter. Amendment to us this time. Mr. Chironis is here. Have you asked, Minister, about the granting of an amendment, of Members of Parliament, was it supposed, while a ministerialman was also covered, for the courts on the coast? It's a big deal. There was an amendment, which was not there, because there was no draft law. Parliamentary control was carried out. A new amendment has been tabled. Today an amendment from the Potami, from the Centro Union and from us, from the Democratic Reconciliation, comes here. You didn't ask, it's obvious. Will you accept that the abolition of that illegal sinful amendment, since it has been the case? And let Mr. Paraskevi with Mr. Kammenos or another colleague of his room. You have this opportunity today. We repossessed it and we expect you to accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u288	Mr. Loverdo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u289	I'm closing without a reason. I close with the words of one of your ministers: "Ladies and gentlemen, the difficult ones have gone through. Now the worst is coming." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u290	Thank you very much. Mrs Olympia Tyiyiridos has the floor. Then the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr. Dendias will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u291	Mr President, in a telephone call I have been told that I will speak after Mr. Loverdos. I've asked for it since noon.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u292	You're after Mr. Teddy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u293	Oh, no. I had asked, according to the parliamentary representation of the parties, to be me after Mr Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u294	It wasn't followed. Mr. Loverdos came in earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u295	So if I have asked to precede me, as we've heard since 11:00 in the morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u296	Please. These agreements are within the framework of a general economy. Where to see in relation to the party leaders.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u297	I then reclaim my position on the order...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u298	Mr. Dendias is an officer of the C.O. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u299	With Mr. Kremastino...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u300	We are as consistent as we can to get the economy of the process out. And inconsistent with the number of fellow Members who in the end will not speak at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u301	I always keep my time until a second and I want to talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u302	I am not in favour, at least, of this issue by any other Member. Alas. Mrs. Tyloridou, you have the floor. Excuse me for the interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating this bill today and it is indeed a difficult day for the government but also for the governmental majority, because we have to take measures of EUR 1.8 billion. I wonder, could we not take these measures? Could we find the money they need elsewhere? The answer is, yes. We could not take these measures, and indeed the sum of one billion euros, if, for example, in March 2014, there was no amendment, and even night in a bill by the Ministry of Administrative Reform on the Minister of Foreign Affairs today's Chief of Officer Mitsotakis, who gave fines and tax violations to two oil companies for 2010-2011.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u304	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u305	I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u306	You're a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u307	Please, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u308	I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u309	Just a minute, Mrs. Tyloridou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u310	Do you understand what he says, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u311	Mr. Brutsi, your party's parliamentary representative and the Chief himself are next. You don't have to. We don't work with screams in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u312	What are you talking about, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u313	I tabled the amendment to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u314	We've been telling you for a year and a half! You've been hiding for a year and a half. You're a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u315	This amendment is signed by Stournara...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u316	Just a minute, Mrs. Tyloridou. Mr Brutsis, please take note of the Bureau when the parliamentary representative and the Chief of your Party are next in mind, as if there were a problem like what you are talking about, they will be mentioned. I would ask the speaker to continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u317	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u318	Please, Mr. Papadopoulos. You've also become a lawyer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u319	Since I do not like communication terminals to make fireworks throwing into this Chamber, I have tabled the specific amendment signed by Mr Stournara and Mr Mitsotakis for the Minutes. Because a colleague from the Officerial Vice-President asked us yesterday to eat our lotus, to let us forget, obviously, your things are done, so we will tell him that we will not become a looter, no matter how much you offer us the lotus. You are accusing us today of bringing together the establishment of a fund, which - he says - will be privatising, privatising public property. You refer to a fund, which is with Greek administration, with Greek headquarters and with Greek law, if they tell you something. Obviously, you are right to doubt how this fund will work, because there are indeed your own times. For example, I would like to remind you of the privatisation of the Bank of Greece's assets, with the two hundred and forty-one properties you gave "PANGAIA", with the loan through the National Bank to a private company to buy and then you put the National Bank, these properties to rent. The damage was EUR 70 million for rent alone. I don't have the time to expand any longer. There's only one thing I'll tell you. For decades, the old political and economic establishment was consciously destroying the country through a complex of party, business and media interests that misled and deceived the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u320	If the people don't eat spoon!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u321	Please, Mr. Tasoula.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u322	We did, too, have delusional. Do you know what our delusion was? Our delusion was that we thought you were incapable of dissolving everything and saying that something was left in this country to manage the next one. You were capable of everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u323	You're incapable of everything!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u324	Mr. Tasula, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u325	The Greek people know you, who has condemned you three times in one year, but they also know us and want us to do something different, because if we continue to perpetuate the economic model of postmopulation, then we will indeed be one of the same. But we are not the same, because we believe that this country can have a chance of negotiating debt, with a different production reconstruction, with a radical restructuring of the primary sector, with healthy entrepreneurship. Because, although you interrupted and consumed enough time, I understand that time is valuable, I would like to end with this: All of this, which you are trying through a tough opposition speech, which also raises an election issue, although I think the last rhetoric of Mr Samaras is transferring it to 2017, we are not to blame. They don't throw us, because we're part of the Greek people, we're his voice and his representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u326	Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to ask you not to react to the speeches. I, at least, like most of you, have heard for four days in this very dense and difficult process, beatings, defects and few felonies from a microphone. I will say something, and I do not want to touch on colleagues who have reacted. In particular, when they are women colleagues, from all the sides of the House, I would ask that there be greater sensitivity to holidays. And the notion is. Take it as a personal comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u327	Why, Mr President, cannot women alone?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u328	For the same reason you understood...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u329	They want you an attorney?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u330	The exact opposite.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u331	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u332	Mrs Asimakopoulou, while respecting what I just said, I am not answering you. Okay? Your comment has been heard. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u333	Likewise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u334	Mr. Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u335	Mr President, I will be brief because I understand the fatigue and exhaustion of this House. I would like to say first of all that I am sorry that the Minister for Finance, Mr Chakalotos, is not in the Chamber right now. What for? Because he filed a series of legislative improvements. I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that I make a sum of money every time. You've exceeded sixty-sixty-legislative improvements in this piece of legislation. In any case, the last legislative improvement submitted by the Minister concerns a recital in the explanatory statement and I would ask him when he comes back to explain what it is all about. We're looking after this. I now come to the issues which have been discussed. First of all, there was an attempt to create a impression of an allegedly graceful amendment, which bears the signature of three ministers of the previous government, including the current Governor of the Bank of Greece, Mr Stournara and the President of the New Democracy, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment is a well-known one and it is a good amendment. But in any case, because you are trying to create impressions on behalf of the Chief of Police Representation, whose signature is signed by the amendment, I hereby authorise you to table this amendment and to vote by the New Democracy. Right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u336	Bravo! Finally!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u337	To end with pheasies and populism!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u338	Do you admit it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u339	Please! Please, Mr. Gaki, Mrs. Alonitou!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u340	Now we are going to tax matters that we discussed before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u341	These are slanders!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u342	Now we're going to tax matters. Don't bother, the authority we give you is permanent power when you want and if you want to write and plan to deposit it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u343	At last, you admitted!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u344	Mrs. Alonitou, I'm talking about in person! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u345	Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA - ANEL majority, it is the 5.4 billion that you are imposing today, because I have heard a lot of people say it, it is not all the taxes you have imposed. Remember last year the increase in VAT from 13% to 23%. Remember last year's increase in health contributions. Remember last year the increase in tax advances among others. The 5.4 billion this year is to add them to last year's. And by the way, the Minister of State came here and told us that thanks to you - and, by the way, we forgot to thank you, I may have to do so now - we have saved some 20 billion. You're telling me why, since we're so rich and we've saved 20 billion, have you put us in a series of new taxes? So let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u346	Because you were a government and you destroyed Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u347	Mr. Femelle, it's rhetorical questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u348	In fact, not only do you put new taxes on us, but you also cut special payrolls. These are for the wealth that you create after eighteen months. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also say two words about the fund, this strange fund for which a great deal of discussion has been held here, the "Greek Company of Participation and Property S.A." and other provisions. I told you first of all in my position yesterday that this is legally not just lame but insane. When I first saw it, I described it as the meeting of the half - flanking politician with the half - legal one. These things you do here, first of all, are legally funny. But let's leave the legal part of the matter, about the non-exchangeable share, etc. Do you really understand what you're doing? Do you understand what you're doing? That four generations of Greeks will then have mortgaged the entire national property because of your vote today? We will oblige you, everyone by roll-call vote to vote and to be recorded in the Minutes. You have a huge responsibility and not just moral responsibility. I come to your favorite issue now, the complexion. Let's see what's going on here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u349	Let's see. Do you remember them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u350	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all Mr Stathakis replied to my question about Article 106 of the law. In fact Article 105 gives fines, Article 106 gives penalties. So I told Mr Statatakis two things: firstly, that he needs the signature of the Minister of Justice. The signature of the Ministry of Justice came, which means that he was missing from the evil. But we're going beyond that. I said we want a list of offences. That didn't come. I said we want a list of people and companies. This has not come and it has not even come for Article 56, which Mr Stavuras mentioned before. I have also asked Mr Stathakis to bring us the positive suggestion for that of the Competition Committee. And what did Mr. Stathakis tell me, where is he here? He told me he didn't need to. The text of the Act, ladies and gentlemen, says: 'The Competition Committee gives its opinion on proposals to amend this Law'. This Law is Law 3959/2011. Article 106 shall start as follows: ‘Article 44(3) of Law 3959 shall be replaced’. It is clear, therefore, that you cannot deliver an opinion from the committee. And do you know why you cannot present an opinion from the committee? Because you have the opposite opinion of the committee. Tell us now if you're kind enough: Charms in the complication who's doing here? To understand a little and speak Greek. Let's go to another matter. Rusfetti. Your favorite.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u351	Scientists, you're in the rushphetti.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u352	Legislation without ruffelhetti here isn't coming. Article 153 I told you before - 'economy' densification. That sounds good. ‘Social condensation’. The residential condensation areas do not enter the forest maps, but the layout of forestry legislation is respected. Now, if you'll excuse me, is there another joke you have to do for us tonight? Just so we know how to laugh more. Because all these incredible, obvious, unprecedented, unprecedented, unrelenting, cannot be done in a European country parliament. If these things - and with every apologies to the Ambassador of the country concerned - were to come to the Parliament of the country, whose leader Mr Mugabe is, nor there, in the monocracy, would the noble MPs vote for them. For here, not only the will of the Greek people is underestimated, but the common intelligence of the average human being is also underestimated. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to something last but not less important. Mr Loverdes has also mentioned this, and Mr Mitsotakis has mentioned his previous position in plenary. You have passed an amendment to transfer property from Faliro Olympic Pole to the Ministry of Justice. We have been telling you, directly, that this is for fifteen reasons unacceptable. It was said then that there would be a check and it was evident that this was not right and that there would be a replacement for buildings with other buildings. Until now, 15 days later, you thought we had forgotten and 'a farm you bought'. We have therefore tabled an amendment on the subject by the President of the New Democracy. You vote for her, so we know what's going on? Because here this story of the press is'speaking here' but then outside we do what we forget' is not going to continue. I conclude by telling you that I'm still waiting since yesterday for the Minister of Defense's place on special payrolls. Until now, when we're discussing, I'm out of place. Ladies and gentlemen, we will oblige you, for what we consider to be important, to vote in roll-call votes. I can tell you clearly that you have exceeded Ruvik, a word that is familiar to you, by the way. You have exceeded Parliamentary Ruvikon and you are voting unbelievably. Your course as a parliamentary majority is predetermined. I have told you on several occasions that you have been counting a minimum of time. What you can do is not be ridiculed any further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr. Treasury. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, forty-nine members of the Parents and Kennedy Association from the 1st Elementary School of Chrysopoli Kavalas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Alexiadis has the floor for a minute to clarify what he has been asked to clarify for an amendment. The honourable Member, Mr Pavlides, and Mr Cassidyris, from the Parliamentary Representatives, will then be given the floor. Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u354	Mr President, I should not have taken the floor because I replied to this House with specific information. Unfortunately, however, this is still coming back. I would therefore like to make it clear that there has been a tax control on businesses, on the basis of the legislation that they had to pay taxes, that amendment came, and that they were able to do so, and they paid less tax. This amendment was voted after three attempts in the Greek Parliament two years ago. I don't think there's any business that the SYRIZA government expected to come or keep matters unresolved and have not solved. It has no legal effect of bringing an amendment now and abolishing it, because crime has taken place. Unfortunately, the public lost millions of euros of this amendment. That is the truth and political responsibility is specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u355	Thank you. Mr Stathakis, would you like to clarify something about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u356	I would like to make a comment on Mr Twelfths' remarks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u357	Not on the remarks, please! Is there anything left for clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u358	Yeah, I'd like to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u359	Not on the 'Rubic', whether it was parliamentary or not!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u360	He's been read by the opposition long ago. I remain in your remarks, Mr Teddy. For Rule 105 I have the agreement and I have incorporated all the comments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u361	You don't have one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u362	For Rule 106, listen to me - I have systematic contact with the committee. The committee has declared itself unresponsible for the criminal aspect. I repeat this once again. Mr. Paradoxopoulos explained it to you and you can do as much criticism as you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u363	That's not right. It's unprecedented!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u364	Mr Athanasios, please do not interfere at all with the reasoning. It's not a court of law here! It is a political debate with Mr Teddy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u365	Thirdly and lastly, the committee does not legislate. We are legislating and the committee expresses an opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u366	Thank you. Mr. Pavlides has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u367	Ladies and gentlemen, "This cooperation government SYRIZA - ANEL and the Green Egos are a dangerous and irresponsible government. The athemophobics have only managed within sixteen months of their government to charge the Greek people and the country another EUR 85 billion.” It is precisely on this line that the Civic Opposition and the other parties are supporting its whole political perception, in this account that we have charged EUR 85 billion to the country. In this sense, therefore, and with this account, the New Democracy Party is asking for elections here and now, sometimes not, sometimes without thinking, of the pressure within it and abroad, the PASOK is asking for a broad government with the participation of the New Democracy, a broad political global government and Mr Leventis, as always stable for many months, a government of technocrats, like bankers, who have run the country the previous period, with the known results. But because I have told you that you have an allergy in accounting and you continue to insist on the theory, which says if the mathematics do not agree with our policy, the worse for mathematics, I searched and found some numbers that will help you to support much more this logic both within the country and outside the country. In '14, the country's debt was 320 billion, i.e. 180% of GDP. This irresponsible and unacceptable co-operation government SYRIZA - ANEL and the Green Economies in '15 loaded another ECU 85 billion. In other words, the debt went down, having had 320 and another 85 billion euros, EUR 405 billion. And because I also made a rough calculation to give you the number not to get bored, then we ejected the debt from 180% to 227%. It is a good number for you to say abroad, for New Democracy to go to the European People's Party, for PASOK to go to the European Social Democrats and for everyone to say it to laugh. And to be serious, all this argument is lame, it is crippled, for the very simple reason: ELSTAT came at the end of March and brought the real results for the financial dimension of the debt in 2015, where - what a surprise! - He's disgusting everything I said before. Debt fell by 8 billion in 1915 compared with '14. And they're not predictions, they're attesting ELSTAT for the year 2015 with the real numbers. Of the 320 billion, the debt went to 311.5 billion. From 180% of GDP, it fell to 176.9%. These 85 billion rather fell somewhere in the course of your political debate. I will say in detail: the summer agreement did indeed have EUR 85.5 billion. What was that? It was the refinancing of the old debt. We had and have 54 billion debts for the period 2015-2018, 50 billion of which are old debts, that is, your debts. We do what each consumer does. He collects his consumer loan, which is 18% interest rate, his housing with 5%, another consumer loan or another professional loan at 12% interest rate, pays them back to a single new loan, at a much more favourable rate than that, with all three loans together. That's what we did, gaining a lot of serious economic benefits. So 54 billion is that. Secondly, the recapitalisation of the banks. Of the 25 billion that we predicted there would be a need to recapitalise the banks, to complete the recapitalisation only raised EUR 5.4 billion, so EUR 20 billion did not involve debt and were not added to the debt. Thirdly, the repayment of outstanding debts - about five to seven billion - is programming, which we must pay back and pay back within '16.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u368	Please, be quiet. He's talking to a colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u369	So to add, at 85.5 billion, the old debts, which have been repaid and restructured, so they have not increased - they have barely decreased - are 54 billion in banks of 5.5 billion, 20 and 6 billion left as a new debt from the package of 85 billion. In fact, the return from the Financial Stability Fund of EUR 10.9 billion from the EFSF bonds has led to an equitable debt reduction. So, ladies and gentlemen, it mentions and confirms ELSTAT fortunately - there was no new debt burden. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So the caramel, which you have been sucking for too long and too many months for the debt, the EUR 85 billion new one, on which you bet your entire political line, is probably the time to swallow it, because it cannot convince anyone. And I guess that's what you're doing. Your panic and the loss of cooling that this has shown so long states. I wanted to say something about the cutter, but I won't. It is a pity, however, that some forecasts of the automatic adjustment mechanism did not exist before 12. I would like to say - and I am ending with this, Mr President - that, in paragraph 3 after paragraph (e), if another point were to be inserted, which said that the two-digit governments should return the people's mandate to the people and the deficits of 15%, perhaps the country had been saved from a dangerous, destructive and economic policy over the last decade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u370	Thank you. Mr. Cassidy has the floor now. For the economy of the debate, I tell you that from MPs Mr Giannakis and Mr Consolas from New Democracy and Mr Igoumenides from SYRIZA will still speak. Best of the cases. Not in turn, but the way you saw it. Then there are the ministers, Mr. Juliarakis, Dritsa and Kurublish and the Chiefs. The "solid" has nothing to do with time. After Mr. Cassidyri and Mr. Juliarakis, the floor will be taken by the Chief of Police, if you have no objection. Here you go, Mr. Cassidy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u371	The moments experienced by the Greek people, these days, are very critical and historic, because in this House, the fourth and most devastating criminal memorandum has been passed since the day that this dominance of foreign loan sharks was imposed in Greece. We had anticipated this development, that with a left-wing government Greece would be subjected definitively and irrevocably to foreign forces. Already before the first elections won by SYRIZA, before last July's referendum, I said in this Chamber that Tsipras is the most useful multi-tool for international tachography, which will impose the most prestigious and criminal memorandum on Greece. And I remember that day because I had come to the House through the prison. For my imprisonment, in fact, the previous government, Samara - Venizelos, was responsible for most of it, with the association of SYRIZA and the other systemic forces. And he was then the previous Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, who had sent to my home and to the home of the Chief and other Members of the Golden Dawn Thirty and more than thirty hoodlers of the counterterrorism. So he faced us with the corrupt system of power, so he continues to treat us today. I remember, then, that day that we anticipated from this step forward that the country will be subjected to the prisons of foreign tumultery by one man, by your Prime Minister, who has been chosen by foreign forces, by the German economic oligarchy, to carry out a mission, a criminal and betrayal mission against Greece, which no one else could accomplish. If it were another government in the matter and imposed this lousy memorial, with the new supreme demilitarisation, which binds all the national wealth of Greece, it would have dropped the cement on Syntagma Square. Instead, nothing is going on at all today. There's the New Democracy's silent consent, at Merkel's command again. Because what Merkel said to Mitsotakis in the European People's Party is 'do it, we want them'. They want the left government, the SYRIZA ANEL government, because it is the only government that can betray the country so comfortable without widespread popular reactions. You are serving a project of extremism in Greece in two areas. The first and main area concerns the entry of illegal immigrants into the country. In this area too, of course, there is no opposition other than the Golden Dawn. The only thing the Officers of the Anti-Population are that they do not like the conditions in Idomeni, in which illegal immigrants live at the expense of Greece. The Greek, which would invest and bring money and bring thousands of jobs to Greece today, has become a huge, monstrous, hot spot where Pakistanis are raped by minors. The price of this place fell sharply. And there comes a minister's signature, and he sells out the particular space, from which the public could save millions, sells it without any price for Greece at all. These are the crimes. In the first phase, dismantle the country through illegal immigration and in the second phase, form the country through the new, burdensome, destructive memorandum. It is no coincidence that you no longer say a word about the country's public debt. You are committing a huge crime against Greece. Greece should immediately carry out an audit of public debt with special teams of auditors with international supervision, to see at last - it has forgotten that, your government has betrayed this rightful Greek demand - what we are paying for and for whom we are paying. We must refuse to pay the illegal and burdensome debt, whose bonds drown the Greek people as a hook. With the fourth Memorandum of Understanding, as I have repeatedly said in the last few days, all the productive structures of Greece are being committed, all the wealthy sources of Greece, all the airports of the country, which were first sold to the German "FRAPORT" and now SYRIZA, and a signature completes this sale. In this supervising place, in fact, because we provokedly heard some representatives of the New Democracy talking about immunity - you were the first to introduce immunity, through legislation, when you gave immunity to bankers for maritime loans to the parties - what is SYRIZA doing? It goes a step further than this crime. Because it's a crime, it's a criminal offence, it's a felony criminal. So what Article 193(7) of this anti-national legislation says. It says that the members of the board of directors of the new superstate - we are talking about foreign power centres - these members who some of the SYRIZA previously said they would be Greek, will be appointed: The President and the main member of the Commission. The other three key members will not be able to be appointed if they do not have the signature of the Commission and of foreign bonds again. That said earlier, these falsehoods, a SYRIZA MEP, who mistaken us because they were three times candidate with PASOK and was fighting with the Neo-Democrats, who colluded with PASOK, and she is now in SYRIZA, while she was a special associate of Aki Tsohazzopoulos. You can see, then, that the anti-national system from '74 to today in Greece has been constantly going on. The same persons alternated in the same and same power parties with a common place and a common goal, the destruction of Greece. So let's go see what the present left government is voting for the sovereigns of our country. It votes for total immunity for any crime and to do against the Greek people. Article 193(7): The members of the Board of Directors of the Supreme Court shall not be liable to civil liability vis-à-vis third parties for acts or omissions in the performance of their duties. Here's a revelation. The ANEL party, participating in the co-government, has tabled an amendment, number 4/44. I am warning you here that if this amendment is accepted, it is a cause of war, because it is 'carbon', the amendment which the New Democracy had passed to relieve bankers of criminal responsibilities. And so the ANELs, the government partner of SYRIZA, are asking for the same immunity for bankers. The ANEL amendment says: Decisions taken in connection with restructuring or loans granted by bank managers are legally regarded as civil and criminal liability. This is what the ANEL MPs are asking Chakaloto. It is Amendment No 4/44. If this disgrace is accepted, it will be a cause of war. Don't complain after that, because the Golden Dawn is making a mess of the House. We have done so repeatedly in this Chamber, and we have created such situations, because crimes are being committed against Greece, crimes that we are not going to tolerate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u372	The Bridge?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u373	We have another challenge, with regard to the Independent Public Revenue Authority. Does anyone know how much the members of the board of directors of this independent authority will be rewarded for each meeting that will drink their coffee and literally rob the Greek people and drink their blood? This law provides for EUR 300 for each meeting of the Board of Directors of the Independent Public Revenue Authority. These are crimes that have remained in obscurity. Golden Dawn reveals them. I close, saying that Golden Dawn is a proposition movement and a plan to exit Greece from this crisis, which you all unitedly created. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We have tabled two amendments and we demand that they be accepted. The first relates to the rescue of the CSCE, the rescue of thousands of our fellow citizens, who have led them to impoverishment. The second concerns the taxation of Members from the first euro, because, as we have shown in detail, the farmer, the businessman, the free trader pays a tax of 423% more than a Member pays, and that is a disgrace. This disgrace promotes a left-wing government. Similarly, Golden Dawn has tabled proposals for a law to declare the Greek exclusive economic zone and exploit the Greek mineral wealth, which you are currently committing to the supreme privatization and international control of our national property.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u374	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u375	I'm hanging up with this. We have made proposals for legislation to abolish the financing of the parties and to make this money available, these millions per year that are wasted in the parties, the young Greeks born, to the new generation of Greeks. Because the major danger at the moment for our country is not the financial abundance of foreign loan sharks. It's that there won't be Greeks in a few generations. We too want to hit that risk at its root. Only Golden Dawn can ensure the future of this country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u376	The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Giannakis, has the floor. Then the Minister will speak, Mr. Juliarakis and the President of Officerial Response.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u377	Mr President, 40% of the legislation brought by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL in 2015 was by legislative acts. All bills are passed in summary procedures. The two most serious legislation for this year, the dismantling of social security and your tax policy, which was voted on for the weekend, and today's bill comes under the urgency procedure. You are being adopted in the many practices that you have reported in the past as parliamentary coups. We need to get back to you today. We have no doubt that the hundred and fifty three Members of Parliament, without a second thought, will say 'yes' to everything. You have said that on the other hand, you will vote on it all. The bad news, however, is that the lenders also know that and they ask for more and more, since they know you're going to get through. But the vote on this bill, ladies and gentlemen, will be a black page on our society and our nation. Because it is not just the fact that the memorandum is now permanent with the famous cutter. It is not only the fact that austerity in a strangled, sterile and pathetic society is becoming permanent and permanent. It is not just the taxes, which fall into the backs of the righteous and the unjust, to cover the derailment of the budget. It is, above all, the fact that there are issues that relate to our national sovereignty, our national independence, and also to the operation of democracy in our country. And I explain: With the establishment of the superstition, the "Greek Company of Participants and Property S.A.", as it will officially be called, you hand over entire public property for ninety-nine years to lenders, that is, for a century. And I ask: is our entire national property? Even the entire property of the Ministry of National Defence? Our camps? Even this building, the House of Greeks? And why ninety-nine years? Since Greece would have repaid the debt by the theoretically thirty three years, why do you grant the public property for a century? But how will this fund be run? It will be run by a foreign, European president, with an absolute veto right, and the decisions will be taken by a majority of 4/5 of the Supervisory Board. How will it be managed? Three of the five executives will be appointed by the Minister of Finance, but after the agreement of the European Commission and the European Stability Mechanism and the other two executives directly from our lenders. What does that mean? It means that no decision will be taken without the consent of foreigners. The expressions 'Kuisling', 'prophets', 'German gypsies', etc. What were you talking about? Because they remind me. Ladies and gentlemen, I am confident that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is attacking society. It is making the most violent attack on the history of the Greek state. It no longer guarantees anything to anyone. No Greek and no Greek woman knows what will come out of the morning. Remember what you've done within a year? You have increased the rates of HISPIA twice. You've increased the rates of corporate income tax. You have increased and permanentised the rates of the solidarity levy. You have increased the rates of insurance premiums and the taxation of rents. You abolished the one-off income tax discounts and many HISPIA payment exemptions. Now, raise the ETUC on the plots, the parcels, the business. You've increased the tax advances everywhere. You abolished the refund of the excise duty on oil for agricultural use. You have increased the income tax on farmers, but also on their insurance contributions. Now, raise the excise duty on beer and coffee. You're increasing the tax on petrol and heating oil. You impose a special charge on fixed telephony and pay-TV. You impose a tax on electronic cigarettes and a tax on hotels and rooms. You're increasing the registration fee for cars and trucks. Of course, what about the retrospective cut of the ESS by the low pensioners? And you're going through them as tax fighters. It's a shame, it's a reproach, gentlemen of the government. Take it back. I conclude, Mr President, by voting for this bill too, the country is moving towards greater social despair, deeper recession and, of course, to new painful measures in a short time, since the world's tax capacity has already been exhausted and the objectives you set out are not going to achieve. With masturbations and uncovered political demagogy, you lured a large proportion of society to trust you. But your relationship with society is a permanent 'bras de fer.' And that's how you're going from here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u378	Thank you very much. That is a very good thing about 'bras de fer'. The Deputy Minister, Mr. Juliarakis, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u379	Mr President of the House, I would like to put two legislative improvements to this House. A legislative improvement to Article 233 for the Automatic Financial Adjustment Mechanism of the General Government's Budget. And a legal correction related to Article 236 of the Special Degree Law. I put it to the House, Mr President, and I would ask them to be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u380	Tell us what this is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u381	What are these, Minister, can you tell us what they are?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u382	Say, please. You will have a minute more to tell the House, because we are in the final process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u383	I have little time. Legislative improvements to Article 233 are minor corrections that do not change the substance of the mechanism. That's enough, you'll see them in a little while. The legal correction in Article 236 for Special Degrees enables the Government until December 31, 2016 to table equivalent measures on the budget so that it does not become the freeze of Special Degrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u384	That's the absolute humiliation!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u385	Look who says that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u386	Please! No enthusiasm or disapproval, please! Please, Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u387	I am particularly pleased to satisfy the Officerial Response....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u388	You should have already distributed that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u389	Mr. Javarra, please! You are one of the oldest, most decent and very democratic Members of Parliament. Don't interrupt at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u390	He's like a cutter!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u391	Minister, you have the floor for eight minutes. We'll take longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u392	I therefore welcome, in particular, the satisfaction of the Police Officer and call on her, in view of this satisfaction, to support the draft law today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u393	Can you repeat the previous one?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u394	By voting on the draft law today, a circle is closed in the course of the recovery of the Greek economy. The evaluation...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u395	What's happened? Excuse me, is there a problem, Mr. Manda? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u396	I repeat that, by voting on the draft law, a critical cycle is closed in the course of the recovery of the Greek economy. The evaluation that is being completed today is not the last one. Other evaluations will follow on the basis of the forecasts of the financial adjustment programme. However, it is undoubtedly the most difficult and most important assessment. It is the most important evaluation for three reasons: First of all, it closes all the budgetary and financial commitments made by the government. The next evaluations will address issues relating to improving market competitiveness, improving public administration and long-term economic recovery. They will not, however, include any additional financial measures. With the budgetary measures that we are legislating today, we confirm that we are achieving the budget targets of 2016, 2017 and 2018. This assessment, however, is particularly important because, with its completion, it is not only the amount necessary for the payment of external obligations, but is also disbursed with it for the next eight months, a sum of EUR 750,000 per month for the payment of outstanding commitments. Allows the European Central Bank to reduce the cost of borrowing to Greek banks by bringing back the water. And soon it leads to the country joining the European Central Bank's quantitative relaxation programme, which will be the premise of leaving the country in the markets and leaving the comitology. Most importantly, the completion of the assessment leads to the fulfilment of the three main conditions for the return of the economy to recovery. The first condition is the restoration of liquidity conditions, which have already been satisfied with the successful recapitalisation of banks. The second crucial condition is the restoration of the climate of stability, that is, the return of the economy to a normal pace which, despite difficulties, will allow households and businesses to provide securely, to plan and invest in the medium term.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u397	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u398	The third crucial condition is the regulation of the public debt, which will lead to the reduction of its annual service costs, so that, on the one hand, budgetary policy can gain the necessary breath in the medium term, on the other hand, confidence in the country's ability to serve its public debt, which will ultimately lead to a significant divergence in the interest rates of the Greek debt. The second and third of these conditions are met to a large extent by completing the assessment, which is why it is important, especially the Civic Opposition, which is being cut off from the country's European path, to support the draft law today. There is no doubt that the budgetary measures on which the completion of the evaluation is based are measures which burden the income available. I said it a few days ago, there is no good tax. All taxes, most taxes are market distortions, create wrong incentives for the behaviour of businesses and households and in many cases are potentially substantial. Much more in our country, where the share of indirect taxes is 2% above the European average, although the total tax revenue remains significantly below the European average. But the government has an obligation and a responsibility to maintain the budgetary balance. And it has this obligation, in order to strengthen the credibility of the country, the credibility of budgetary policy and to get rid of the committee an hour earlier, the credibility, which I would like to remind you that the country has lost, when for many years the previous governments have created budgetary deficits without there being tomorrow, thereby supporting a distorted model of growth. I would remind you that 2007 was a budget target of EUR 4.2 billion, and finally the implementation of the budget resulted in a deficit of EUR 6.6 billion. 2008 was a deficit of EUR 3.5 billion and finally the budget was closed with a deficit of EUR 10 billion. In 2009 we all know that the budget was closed with a deficit of more than 15% of gross domestic product. But the government also has a duty to allocate the burden of budgetary adjustment in a way that is socially fair and mild. Let me remind you here that the budgetary adjustment would have been much greater if the government had not achieved a significant reduction in the budgetary targets in the August negotiations. The inevitably budgetary measures we need to legislate today are divided according to the principle'many of the few and few of the many'. In income taxation two weeks ago, employees and pensioners, low and medium-incomes are at little or no cost, while high incomes are significantly borne. In farmers' tax, the large mass of farmers, over 80% of them, does not pay tax. In the taxation of the professions, the vast majority of them pay less than they have had to pay up to now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u399	Please, in a moment you'll be closed, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u400	Give me a minute more, please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u401	I've given you one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u402	Just a moment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u403	Okay, you have one more minute. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u404	The indirect taxation that we are voting on today was the great dispersion, so that every household can share with a small piece of tax burden. The Qualified Opposition claims that if it were a government it would go ahead - listen to this - to a reduction in taxation. Unfortunately, Mr Mitsotakis, the arithmetic is merciless. Reduction of taxation today involves one of the following two things: either you return the country to the policy of budgetary deficits, the loss of credibility and a new cycle of crisis, or you will proceed to a great reduction in expenditure, the further degradation of the social state, the welfare state and further increase in disparities. Your slandering into a neoliberal populism of the 1980s does not help either your own party or the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u405	Where did you see these? Will you drive us crazy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u406	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u407	The government and the country need a credible Opposition. I would urge you to review your economic policy strategy and go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u408	Are you talking about credibility?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u409	Please, be quiet. And please close, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u410	I am closing in a minute and saying that there is more room for improvement in the macroeconomic policy framework. And that's what we'll do from the next day. The government's macroeconomic policy for the next two years will move on three lines: the first axis is the expansion of the tax base by means of the legalisation of electronic transactions and the fight against smuggling in fuel and tobacco, the revision of public expenditure to create a financial space to reduce taxation, but also in a safe way to strengthen the social state over the long term. The only convincing account in the country is the Left Government account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u411	Thank you very much, Minister. The Parliamentary Representative of the River, Mr Dannelis, then the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, speaks. Here, Mr. Dannelly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is undoubtedly a difficult day for the country and for Parliament. The package of measures is heavy and shows that delusion and demagogues are paid very expensively. Taxes and cuts of 5.4 billion in two weeks go way! Many Members are talking today about a national shame and focusing it on the multi-brand plan that we are discussing. It's hypocritical, ladies and gentlemen. It's hypocritical, because everyone's spotting the reasons for shame on the other side. Because for years we've been postponing to settle our houses. And it was expected that there would be a time when a third party would take care of them, and he is aware that he will not do so in the most pleasant way for us. So let us be honest. The national shame does not arise from today's multi-brand plan alone, but also from the unwise mismanagement of decades, in which the whole of our political system has worked out almost. If, of course, the government at the outset had a plan and objectives, as well as an awareness of the need to take over the agreement, which, to date, everyone refuses, the current heavy arrangements could have been set up as an institutional emblem of the clientele of the future governments, without any arrangements which, of course, raise issues of democratic legitimacy. It could, in other words, finally be possible for all of this to be settled and removed from the sirens of the customer service and of the plundering of the state - which brought us here to bankruptcy - to avoid having them in the future, if we had a plan and whether these arrangements were rationally adopted in our national law. Now, with regard to certain specific provisions and amendments, I would like to dwell on the unacceptable Article 106. The replacement of the term 'driving' with'relevant crimes', made by the Minister just before, I think it will not change anything. The article provides that if an undertaking pays a fine imposed on it by the Competition Committee, the criminality of its crimes is eliminated not only in respect of infringements of competition law but also in respect of financial crimes, while also exempting it from administrative penalties. For the record, just two days ago - and after multiannual investigations - the Competition Committee found that twenty-seven years had been working cartel in the public works sector, cartel which was releasing the Greek taxpayer's money by using illegal practices, such as the formation of prices in the procedures and the sharing of contracts between the companies that participated in it, cartel which was the main source of interactivity and corruption of public life for several decades. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are unrealisticly exposed for no reason, according to your principles and, of course, your rhetoric. Do you have any reason to insist on this article? I think there is no alternative acceptable way to withdraw this article and you see that a party that has been devoured...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u413	Please, why are you making such a fuss?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u414	Because we're confused.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u415	Okay, I got her answer, but please listen carefully. We've got another two hours of procedure and we're closing down. Mr. Dannelly, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u416	Because Potami has become as obsolete as in the past for so-called special relations with large national contractors, I think our insistence has an extra weight. You have no reason to withdraw this article, which is unacceptable, particularly in the current circumstances, at this juncture, which the Greek people have to subject to such sacrifices. Amendment No 4437/81, to which I wish to refer, removes a provision which was adopted only ten days ago which gave insurance and tax information by way of derogation to the Greek Defence Systems. What happened? You know very well that if the company is deprived of its insurance and tax information, it's shutting down. What about the staff? What about the administration and its responsibilities? What about the turnover, which is useful? With a rationalised design, NSAs can not only sustain themselves, but become profitable and multipurpose. Amendment No 449/93 abolishes the new uses of land and the building coefficients laid down by Law 4269/2014. After it has been abolished, as envisaged, we are returning to the previous legislative regime, namely, the definition of land use by presiding decrees, which, of course, leaves open the scope for influences and treatment in due course. We do not understand why the reasoning is vague because it is presented and why it justifies a concept of use, which is in the past. This is no longer the case in the rest of Europe. Finally, on the agreement to grant airports to Articles 215, 230, we agree. However, there should be an addition of paragraph 5 to Article 229 to other provisions, where a clear and explicit reference is made to the State Air Authority, because the registration of the State authority on page 39 of the concession agreement is general and will cause problems. In particular, the supervisory authorities and in particular the aeronautical industry, but not the Airport Authority, are mentioned. The existence and operation of airport control as a state authority is guaranteed by Law 3913/2011, as well as by European law, and concerns the correction and operation of the Civil Aviation Service. That is what I think needs to be taken into account, because it will create issues of the public interest in these airports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u417	Thank you very much, Mr Dannelly. The President of the New Democracy, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u418	Ladies and gentlemen, in his previous speech in the House, Mr Tsipras told us that we should not blame him for lying to us, but why he simply had deceit. Yes, sir! The dilemma you gave us, Mr. Tsipras. Because I really don't know what's worse: a lying prime minister, who is aware of reality and consciously twists it, or a self-deceived prime minister, who does not understand what is happening around him. But on one hand and on the other, one thing is certain: either a liar or a self-righteous person is not worth being a Prime Minister of this country. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] A few days ago President Obama gave a very interesting speech to senior students at an American university. He mentioned the other things, and I want to read them to you. President Obama said: "I want to make one thing clear" - look, it is interesting - "Ignorance is not qualified. It's not cheeky to have no idea what you're talking about. It simply means you don't know what's going on with you." President Obama said that, bearing in mind another politician in the United States. But I assure you, Mr Tsipras, there was not a single Greek who listened to this abomination and his mind did not go directly to you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because you are exactly that, a politician who ignorant appeared as unconventional maniac, who invested in lies, went into power by stepping on incredible conspiracy and demagogic populism theories of conspiracy. And when he broke his face, he took an entire country into his neck and broke it with 86 billion euros. So to finish lying in this Chamber: If you want to invoke your ignorance and indifference as an excuse, do it. The Greeks, however, have greater demands than their Prime Minister and that is why you are already collecting their refusal. For us things are clear. Apart from deception, there was, in particular, political fraud, conscious, organized, methodical, multi-annual, cynical and ruthless. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It's the most vulgar deception operation of the Greeks ever made. And this historical stigma, Mr. Tsipras, you will always carry it. And one would expect that the dismantling of the illusion, the violent turn of the government's majority in the harsh memoriality would be accompanied, at least, by modesty, by some sort of self-awareness, even a low look, by elementary self-criticism. But the opposite is true. Instead of fighting with your conscience, and today, you are investing in aggression. Instead of pleading in all ways, in fact, your remorse, you continue the extreme polaristic demagoguery. And instead of - even today - discovering the responsibility of the truth, you still continue today to lie and falsify reality. And that's how you know what you're doing? Just throw more water into the mill of political cynicism. And the political cynicism of power - to remember what I'm saying to you - always results in corruption, strife and scandals.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u419	You know what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u420	Please be quiet. Please stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u421	The heirly government alliance, born into lie and delusion, will soon sink into the mud of deception and contempt. And the wounds of the brief stay in power will unfortunately not be healed easily. Why, the cost of 'first time left' is not, unfortunately, only economic. Because Greece today is a country of political, economic, strategic, geopolitical, quarantine. It is experiencing an unprecedented deterioration in the European scene. No one trusts her. And this confidence deficit is reflected in the measures in the fourth memorandum, which the government majority, with an enthusiasm truly unexplained, will vote today. So today, ladies and gentlemen, the account time has come for all Greeks. Because lies, deceitful ones, unreliableness, hypocrisy, have a great deal of cost, which all Greek citizens will pay. Ladies and gentlemen, I told you in my previous speech, I repeat it to you today, to inspire and listen again to Greek citizens: The Greek economy in 2015 and 2016 will lose cumulatively EUR 21 billion from returning to the recession, EUR 5 000 for each household. And if we had the growth rates that all of us, international analysts and international houses predicted at the end of 2014, we would not need significant additional austerity measures. Because the job of achieving the primary surpluses would be done by the growth of the economy rather than by the extra budgetary measures. On the other hand, the decency in the recession - and I did not see him, otherwise, the late Minister for Finance commented on the fact that we had a recession in the first quarter of 2016, of the order of 1.2 % - leads again to the vicious circle of additional measures that are in place in fact - fortunately, Minister, at least you recognised that - in order to lose the goals, of course, and then be forced to take further, additional measures. And like Sisyphus, the Greek society is tired and disappointed to push back the rock of fiscal adjustment. Only this time endurance is completely exhausted and burdens, of course, do not divide on the basis of what is good for society, but what suits SYRIZA's electoral clientele. And the measures that you vote on today reflect not only your ideal, but also your ignorance of the way the real economy works. The new taxes will strangle each business and strengthen every prospect of creating new jobs. Taxes and increases in contributions are going to lead to more and more in the black economy, and the expected revenues from Mr Katrugalos will be reduced. And, of course, the indirect taxes will primarily hit the weakest social strata, the ones you are supposed to be cutting off. And with the measures you are currently legislating, you are depriving the country of the opportunity to recover, progress, develop. Behind the active citizens the incentive to work. To go, then, to look at some specific examples, which seem to be necessary to repeat and to base themselves on the lies which you are still insisting on. Take a free professional with an income of 24,000 euros. I wonder, Mr. Tsipras, if you think that's a lot. So let's see what he'll pay: he'll pay 6,480 euros in contributions, income tax 3,857 euros and so much in tax advance, 650 euros trade fee, a solidarity contribution of EUR 122. What's left? More than 9,000 euros. Why would this man work, Mr. Tsipras? To get a home of 754 euros, while normally making 2,000 euros a month? Let's go to another example, because you also deprive pensioners of a decent life. Let's go back to being specific and talk with real examples. Retired pensioner of 8,000 euros, 494 euros principal pension and 173 euros EKS loses more than 2,000 euros a year, over half of his income and, of course, all his dignity. And you still have the courage to come to this Chamber today and to baptize all the beneficiaries of the ESS tax-gatherers and you did not even recall it! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And to give you another example, because you deprive young people of hope and perspective. To get a new married farmer who has an annual income of EUR 9,000 and has to live today with EUR 6,530 - why? - because he'll pay taxes and contributions 342 more. Of course, at the same time, you are teasing your favorite hobby to "fight" the middle class, making the property of real estate a nightmare. The Greeks will now pay ΕΙΝΑ for empty and unexpected properties, for untreated agricultural parcels, for whatever they own. Work is being punished and, of course, property is being persecuted. And here your political purpose is clear, the flooding of the middle class and, of course, the morbid satisfaction, which you offer to the poorest layers of the even lower compression of the most prosperous. The government is investing in an undeclared class warfare. The dissolution of the middle class, however, destroys all hope of human life and the weakest, because no Greeks will remain unaffected by the hurricane of the indirect taxes that you are voting on today. You are exterminating everyone, but mostly the poorest households. Indirect taxes are more unfair than direct taxes. They're solid income than those who need it most. And I will repeat to you some of the indirect taxes, which you are increasing: VAT at 24% from 23% - a second increase in a few months' time - an increase in excise duty on heating oil by 22%. You increase excise duty on diesel by 24%, excise duty on petrol by 3.5%. You impose a fee on hotels, rooms for rent, telephone, internet, television and so many other measures to increase taxes on fuel, tobacco, beer, increase in the car registration fee. And all this, of course, yes, Mr Tsipras, is reducing the available income, but they are doing something else: they increase transport costs and eventually break the competitiveness of the Greek economy. Mostly, however, they affect the lowest incomes. On this point, let me also make a reference to the issue of special wages and the 'fresh' of wage growth. You had the courage, Minister, to table this legal correction, which is a legal correction of a hypothetical nature. What do you think? Let me read it to you to understand what you're legislating. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This provision does not apply in the event that the Ministers concerned have achieved equivalent financial savings. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Who are you kidding, Mr. Tsipras? What else will Mr Kammenos, who is absent today, need to vote on the bill? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You talked about delusion. This is where you legislate, ladies and gentlemen. Shame on you! And embarrassment to you for voting on these and mocking the uniforms! You're making fun of them! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Aren't you embarrassed? Sit down. Calm down. You'll hear them no matter how bothering you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u422	Don't talk, gentlemen! You're making fun of the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u423	Be quiet, please! Mr. Davakis, please. Now are we going to start nominal reports? It's not right. Excuse me, Mr Davaki, for speaking personally. Quiet, please, to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u424	And as if the storm is not enough, today you are also proposing the introduction of an automatic cost-cutting mechanism, with additional budgetary measures, the famous cut-off. And you come and file last minute legislative improvements, one hour before the bill is passed, on yesterday's date! Mr President, I would like to point out these points so that we can remember how well this House is legislating. You are, of course, even worse than that: the Greek Company of Participation and Property, a mechanism of permanent commission on the property of the country, the famous superstition, which will extend until 2115. This has no precedent in world history. No country on the planet, on any continent, has been found at such a low level of credibility that its creditors resort to the degrading practice for the country of demanding that the cost-cutting measures be taken, even worse, to the imposition of a control mechanism for the whole of the country's public property. The cutter is the clause of your personal untrustworthyness, Mr. Tsipras. Since lenders know very well that the measures you propose do not come out, they impose additional measures on you in advance. Our lenders have known for some time now that you're unreliable. They know very well that you'll do anything to stay in this chair. Everything! That is why they bind you and tie you back and unfortunately also the country together. You are being humiliated, Mr Tsipras, by the cost-cutting mechanism. And they humiliate you to the super-positive level, with the excess as you suggest it. Because of you, however, they also insult the dignity of the Greek people. Your personal unreliability, unfortunately, contaminates the country and binds the next generations. Today is a day of shame for the country. It's a day of shame for the Greek Parliament. It is not enough that we have already paid your illusions very expensively, now we are paying the fines for your lies and we are making advance payments for your unreliability. Why have you been imposed, Mr. Tsipras, by the Greek Company of Participation and Property, as you suggested? Answer us, why does she have life by 2115? Why is there no effective control by the Greek Parliament? Why is there no limitation on the assets transferred to the excess fund? And why wasn't the GIADEA finally enough to manage privatisation? Because they simply don't trust you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u425	Please be quiet. Don't react, we're listening with care.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u426	Because at the time you were doing, you were organizing snakes and signing the privatisation of the PPA, your co-sponsored ministers were sabotaging the contract, and the same performance is repeated in Egnatia, Afantou, TRAINOSE and regional airports. The problem was never the functioning of HIAD, its structure and its organization, but your frequent refluxes. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, is your party's position on privatisation still in place, as it is at least today? I printed it today on your official website. Can I read what you say on your official website? It's worth it. There it says: "We cancel the planned privatisations and plundering of public wealth, re-establish public control, and at the same time fully reconstitute the strategic enterprises that have been privatised or are in the process of privatisation to form a strong, productive, efficient, open to new-type public-sector cooperation". Are you still saying that today? So who are you kidding? [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Please explain to us at last, Mr Tsipras, Mr Spirtzi, Mr Skourletis, is privatisation good or not? You have not yet decided, so they are asking you to mortgage the whole country and commit not only the next governments, but also the next generations. And you did it willingly to all stay in the chair. It is a disgrace to you, Mr. Tsipras, what is happening! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And we tell you that we are firmly in favour of demilitarisation and have not concealed our preference. We believe in the liberalisation of the economy, but you know? Such an superstition to us has never dared the lenders to demand and they will never do so in the future, when we become a government, because when this Tsipras - Kammenos government ends, we will recover our lost national dignity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u427	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u428	Because our great difference is that we believe in reforms, we believe in the exploitation of public property with a development mark, and we also believe in limiting the role of the State in its supervisory and regulatory powers. That is why we have not had any difficulty supporting proper reforms promoted in this bill, the creation of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, which strengthens the independence of the tax administration, which we will vote on, the strengthening of competition, which is promoted by the OECD toolbox, which you have so misled - so that we do not forget - in this Chamber and you are now coming to legislate. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We will also support the retention of expenditure through the adoption of a rule of fewer recruitment for each departure from the State and, of course, the very privatizations that are ratified by today's bill. With these reforms we also agree that we are voting in favour of them, but I very much doubt that you are in a position to implement these reforms, because this is the big problem here. You have not become a liberal, Mr Tsipras, because you have voted for some liberal reforms, because liberal policies, such as those I have presented to you, also require liberal politicians to serve them, and when people are forced to implement policies that they do not believe, it is mathematically certain that we will witness a new merciless tragedy. Mr. Tsipras claims that now that the assessment is closed, the economy will take off. He's deeply sleepy. It is not normal to destroy the economy, creativity, the psychology of a people. Most taxes, Mr. Tsipras, if you don't know it, will lead to less investment and, you know, investment is not only 'COSCO', 'ELDORADO GOLD', but also to every professional who finances a business trip, the renovation of his shop or much more the recruitment of a new employee or the purchase of a new machine for his production. The increased contributions - we have told you many times, but you do not understand - finally punish those who can and have the opportunity to earn a little more money. And, of course, they don't allow employers to hire worthy executives. Of course, closed education, for which your Minister gives so much struggle, leads to absolute equilibrium downwards and deprives our children of access to skills that are so necessary in a world that changes quickly. And lastly I hear an interesting theory that you intend to become a late social democrat. Let's get this straight. These policies you are proposing do not refer to Sweden. In Venezuela they're referencing! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you haven't hidden it. I would like to remind you what you said - it has a value, you know - on the Latin American channel 'TELESUR'. Listen to it: "Venezuela is a model that we need to follow, so that we can leave behind the capitalist model that prevails today in Europe. Hugo Chavez has achieved important things for his country in a peaceful manner. He proceeded with the nationalisation of natural production resources.' "Dear President Nikolas," wrote in a congratulating telegram to the newly elected President of Venezuela, "the Venezuelan people decided the irreversible democratic path of anti-neoliberal structural changes in your country, aimed at socialism in the 21st century." I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Venezuela has been destroyed by your friend Nicolas! Today, the country with the largest oil reserves - the largest from Saudi Arabia - has collapsed. Citizens can no longer obtain what they need for their lives! The people are humiliated and hungry! Are you still admiring Venezuelan model? And how does this admiration finally explain? And how does your study explain to cover the overseer - so as not to use any other phrase - an ambassador of the country and even a letter?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u429	Be quiet! Please, Mr Balaura! Please! We're only listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u430	I understand. Unless there's another theory that your ties with Venezuela are even deeper and narrower than a ideological match would justify. But you have a lot in common with the ones you admire. You are a populist, a opportunist and an au thornist! And you're not interested at all if the people are suffering. For everything, gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, it's always the only stranger to blame! And all you're interested in is staying in power, no matter what the cost of staying. That is why we are saying so clearly. The SYRIZA - ANEL government is the problem, and that's why it has to leave as soon as possible! And that is why our request for early elections remains more timely than ever! The sooner you leave the better for the country! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because Greece urgently needs a truly reformist government, a government which will mobilise the silent majority of society that seeks to return to normality, a government that will build a broad political majority in favour of the bold and necessary reforms. We will be the government! And with 'we', I am not just talking about the New Democracy today. I am referring to all the reformist forces of the country, because the reformist front, whether you like it or not, is major today and is the only hope of the Greek people. And it will be expressed politically through the New Democracy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] That is why today, Mr President, I will take advantage of the rest of my time, after you have imposed the order in the Chamber...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u431	Please let order be imposed! Quiet! Easy! We listen very carefully. We said it a hundred times to God! Mr President, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u432	That is why today I will speak first of all to the Greek women and to the Greeks who wonder: 'Is there any other way from this devastating downhill that you are dragging the country?' We can do something different, something else, something better? So let us talk about the different way, for Greece, for the five-year period 2017-2021, about our country's potential, about everything that we can achieve with our own political proposal, through an agreement of truth with society, but also with a new agreement of truth with our partners. Ladies and gentlemen, the starting point for a new agreement of truth must be that the Greek economy is impossible to achieve primary surpluses of 3.5% over the next fifteen years. Such surpluses are possible... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Please! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u433	Quiet! Please, don't interfere! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u434	Such surpluses are possible for short periods, but it is impossible to maintain them in the long term. No country has done so and it is absurd to ask for this from Greece. The primary surplus should be revised to 2% and that should be a national target. And the conditions are mature for a new great deal of agreement with our European partners. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Mr President, please impose order. I don't understand why you're so upset about what we're talking about. So the agreement with our partners is clear: we will offer brave reforms and you will commit to a little lower primary surpluses. We will achieve a growth rate of 4% and you will give us a debt arrangement that will ensure that it can be repaid without strangling the Greek economy. 2% plus 4%, therefore, these must be the strategic goals for the country, so that the cycle of stagnation is finally broken, so that there is a real prospect of exiting the crisis. Is the 4% target possible? Of course it is possible, but with another mixture of policy than what we are voting on today. And it is certainly not possible with the current government. For example, Ireland developed in 2015 with 7.8% and will grow with almost 5% in 2016. For the next five years in succession, 4% will therefore mean that the country's GDP in 2021 will reach EUR 213 billion. That means EUR 1,900 for each household, it means a hundred and twenty thousand new jobs per year. These are the real potential of the Greek economy and anything less, even in the black mess you have brought the country today, it undermines Greece's potential and cannot be considered a success. So this must be the cubit: 4% growth every year, by at least 2021, and that is what we will be ready to implement as a government. To this end, we want to measure ourselves. The New Democracy will lead this country to development, not only because it believes in entrepreneurship - in which SYRIZA does not believe - nor because it will be more effective and more pragmatic. It will change the country, because we will no longer tolerate the moral discounts of the state in a craftsmanship, our country's voyage and the Greeks in vain beings with empty eyes. The reforms that we are going to launch go above and beyond the commitments of the existing programme. The first objective of any reform must be a state that has as its central objective to give oxygen to entrepreneurship and private initiative, which does not restrict the creative capacity of the Greeks, who will stand a brother in the liberation of productive forces and innovative ideas, with mature democratic institutions and institutions of solidarity, a state that trusts the citizens and trusts them. And in this context, there is a need for a series of radical changes, a withdrawal of the state from education which is not sufficient to justify its presence for reasons of overriding public interest, a stable entrepreneurial environment with a drastic reduction in bureaucracy and a promotion of e-government, for which absolutely nothing has been done, a completion of the radical licensing mechanism, which had begun on our own days with the framework law of the Ministry of Development and has remained inactive with the immunisation of the role of independent authorities and, in particular, of the Competition Committee, so as to make it clear that in this country all have equal access to entrepreneurship and that Greece is a modern market, not a market of intermediaries, with a stable and simplified tax environment and, of course, an improvement in the speed in the administration of justice and with transparency everywhere and in everything. Such a state can make Greece truly friendly to investment. And our objective must be specific: we must increase investment from 11% of GDP, which is currently 20%, to the European average, in five years' time. And that is a possible objective. The Greek economy currently has many branches with genuinely comparative advantages and there are significant inactive funds looking for investment opportunities in the international financial system. And addressing the problem of red loans will release funds that will turn into the real economy and restore confidence, overall confidence, can also allow the return of deposits to improve bank liquidity. Of course, at the same time as these reforms, the absolute priority of all the interventions and all the tools that the state has, the development laws and the Community programmes, should be to support the extroverted sectors of the Greek economy and to set a target that we should increase our exports, at least 10% a year, and therefore, reforms that bring investments and extroversion that opens up markets and prospects. All this is possible, but it is necessary, a political prerequisite, is a coherently drafted and determined government, precisely the opposite of the 'humilius' that governs us today. In order to achieve these growth rates, however, it is clear that not only are structural reforms sufficient. We also need another mix of budgetary policy. In simple terms, targeted expenditure reductions and a gradual degression in tax rates. And it is essential today that there should be an additional effort to cut costs. This is necessary today more than ever, so that the country can regain lost credibility. The annual state grant to the noble funds is EUR 1.2 billion. It can be curtailed. Only in 1915 on your own days had been exceeded to the general government's bodies of EUR 500 million. You've done absolutely nothing about it. And an analysis of government operating expenses, code-to-code, can save, at least, 400 million. But, above all, we need a whole new public, redeployment of services so that it can provide more with less, less staff, not with redundancies, but with strict respect for recruitment relationships and, of course, with lower procurement costs through e-government, which your Minister systematically undermines, with less taxpayers' money for the same services by eliminating parasitic structures, the ones that you again multiply with your own multi-project. Of course, there is considerable room for restricting tax evasion, but also for increasing tax compliance, taxes that are confirmed, to be collected when tax rates are reasonable. You will understand that, Mr Tsipras, when you see how far you will fall out of your predictions and trigger the cut you spend. Exterior taxes close the eye in tax evasion. Of course, it is really worth wondering why a government which swears to the fight against tax evasion has done nothing to link small businesses to the Ministry of Finance and why it does not exploit capital controls to drastically reduce cash transactions. Of course, if we manage to achieve and negotiate a 2% budgetary primary surplus target, the budgetary freedom, which will arise, should be allocated three quarters to lowering taxes and a quarter to increase expenditure, with a target increase in social spending, with the first aim of tackling extreme poverty. In other words, fair and effective allocation of rights and burdens, so that there can be an agreement of truth with society and social cohesion. I now come to your favorite issue, the debt issue. I have told you many times, I repeat it today: public debt is not the most fundamental problem in the Greek economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u435	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u436	The problem is the deficit in reforms, the competitiveness deficit, the investment deficit, persistent unemployment. In other words, the denominator is the problem, GDP, much more than the numerator, the debt. Leave it here - I do not know if it has come to your attention, Mr Tsipras - a very interesting public debate on the correct representation of public debt in terms of present value, a debate that would be working for the benefit of the Greek interests, but a debate that seems to leave you indifferently. But you did the haircut of your flag. Once again, considering that in two days' time you will receive as an ad valorem gift for the unprecedented fiscal measures that are taking a roadmap of debt settlement. This delusion didn’t last long. Now we know that our creditors are not discussing debt cuts, as you at least asked them, and they are not going to discuss substantial intervention in the Greek debt before the end of the programme, namely in 2018. And unfortunately - I say 'unfortunately', because I wish it were the opposite - the necessary conversion of small floating interest rates at constant rates does not seem to be at the table yet. I wish I was wrong. In other words, you did not even achieve what we secured in 2012, because very simply no one trusts you, because everyone knows that it is impossible to negotiate the interests of Greece anymore. You did have a unique opportunity as a new government to do so. But you have lost it because everyone today, unfortunately, thinks you are completely unreliable. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Unfortunately for our country, on Tuesday you - not you personally, Mr Chakalotos - will be at the Eurogroup, representing Greece. And the painful bill you are proposing today, you think it will be enough to pass the first evaluation of the programme, which, of course, has not been closed since last November, as you committed yourself. The most likely, indeed, is that this will happen, the first assessment will be closed. However, the cost that the country will have to pay will be huge, because for the first time - take note of this - the country undertakes commitments that go far beyond the time horizon of the programme. The price of your own unreliability will not only be paid by the next governments, but also by future generations. The transfer of the entire public property to the excess until 2115 is the highest price of deception of the Greek people and that is why you are personally accountable, Mr. Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying that the New Democracy has a stable and clear goal: it will serve homeland, serve citizens responsibly, leading Greece to growth and the definitive exit from the memoranda, seeking an annual growth rate of 4%, a hundred million jobs per year for the next five years, increasing GDP to EUR 213 billion in 2021; these are our specific objectives - and leading Greece to regularity and stability, to progress, to prosperity always in the heart of Europe. With this vision, the majority of the Greek people are now drafted with this political proposal. The years of the crisis were, unfortunately, teaching for all of us. We realized problems. We've taken responsibility. We realized what our real choices are. We are now all aware that the policy of bold reforms is a one-way street. That is why, around us every day, a large reformist front is being rallyed together, which is expanding. For me, it does not matter which party each Greek citizen was active or expressed in the past or even today, because all the reformists today - the real reformists - are from the same side of the hill. But this reform revolution has allies and has rivals. Our allies are the truth and the forces of common sense, the forces of creation, the powers of extrovert, the powers of merit, honesty, labour. They are the new generations, which you primarily deceived and which they want to create, and the powers of new patriotism, which believes that this country deserves better. But we have rivals too. Our opponents are populism in all its forms and regardless of political camouflage. The guilds, partisanism, social envy, which SYRIZA and ANEL have sprinkled and watered society with its poison. Of course, the trade in humanity and the slendering of the weak to the same advantage. But the association of forces has already changed and every day more citizens join us in this wide reform alliance. Myths are shattered, delusional, and the outstanding story has left the extreme point of lies and populism and balances in regularity, returns to truth. That is what you deprive us of, Mr Tsipras, in Greece: the opportunity to live on the basis of its real potential. That is why we will bring oxygen, hope, perspective, dignity, all that you have deprived us of and everything that we have done with hard work again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u437	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr. Theodores Dritsas, then Mrs. Gennamas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u438	It's 17:30 an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u439	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u440	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u441	In the end, the Prime Minister will speak and the President will speak earlier. We've already announced them in the Chamber. Don't ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u442	As you wish, you've arranged.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u443	What do you want? After Mrs. Gennamas, immediately he's Mr. Michaloliacos. It's in line. Remind me, Lord! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, 46 students and schoolchildren and 7 teachers attending them from the Municipal School of Sifnos and the Experimental Municipal School of Serres. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister has the floor, Mr. Dritsas for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u444	I would ask for a relative tolerance, Mr President. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, obviously the Prime Minister from the Step Chief and President of the New Democracy, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, will reply to what the Prime Minister said in a moment. Let me not testify to my grief. Because it seems that in this Chamber there is a precedent that Greek history began - as a starting point - in 2015, that the economic crisis, the suffering of the Greek people began in 2015 and that there was nothing before that. Even worse, which grieves me, is that what we heard as programmed announcements by Mr Mitsotakis, believe me, reminiscent of Zappeion II too. Very much. What Mr Samaras had announced, I don't know if that speech was Mr. Antonis Mitsotakis or Mr. Samaras...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u445	Good philosophies!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u446	... which I am appalled by this night of the elections that Mr Samaras and the New Democracy won - please look for his statement - canceled with his statement, taking over the government, the "Zapopeo", because he had decided and knew he would not go to Brussels to negotiate. However, this was not decided by the SYRIZA Government, but on the next day that we undertook a process to claim the negotiation, as the Greek people had commanded us. Yeah, we lost. Yes, we have. Yes, we were not able to take the Greek people's mandate until the end, but the difference is obvious and we cannot hide it. That is why the Greek people in September said, despite the compromise, 'Continue'. Even now, the great majority of the Greek people, even when they feel pressured or frustrated, gives us messages "do not leave". Because all this is not the cheap interpretation they want to give, the insistence of SYRIZA and its executives on staying in the chairs. We never had chairs and we don't care about chairs. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] What really happens is that SYRIZA and the SYRIZA - ANEL - Epologians is not a political force to manipulate the Greek society, it is a political force that seeks to express Greek society and support it under very pressing and extremely difficult conditions. Of course, it is judged that the data are available at a time. So that is what we heard from Mr Mitsotakis, Zappeion II, on a new version. I move on, because there was also an orchestra on the part of the New Democracy, on the amendment on wage maturation. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, of course, this new improvement, the new addition to the original wording - which is forced on the freezing of the maturity for special wages in 2017 and 2018 - comes here - after consultation with all the government and, of course, with the appropriate ministers - to do what? Ensure the implementation of such a provision by ensuring other conditions which will not be at the expense of workers in the Armed Forces, the Security Body, the Justice, the other categories currently included in the Special Payrolls. Where do you find the problem with that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u447	This is unprecedented, Minister! You're a serious man.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u448	On the other hand, it shows that it is a government which is precisely because it respects and recognises the role of all these powers - and as far as I am concerned, of course with all others - we have prepared a series of initiatives to deal with various perspectives that are being deleted. Of course, the permanent demands of the representatives of the Port Authority are being promoted, as in other sectors. Recently with the insurance law, the payment of the one-off from the TASS has been unleashed and the finalisation of a new presiding transfer decree, which, in rationalisation, will save money and the family budget of the members of the Port Authority will save money. We're just in the process of wider consultation. Of course, we have a series of initiatives that will unfold the next period. It is precisely in this amendment that we will be consistent, without having to get to 2017 and 2018 in the freeze of the ripening. Where do you find the reason for getting up in listening here to this addition to the amendment? On the contrary, it suggests and reflects the responsibility of our Government and all the co-legislators in the pressures and compulsions to find balance-sheet solutions and, obviously, systematic responses. I shall proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u449	The equivalents will be found from the Department of Defense?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u450	Mr. Davakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u451	Mr. Davakis, I can't hear you. I'm running fast.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u452	The equivalents of the Department of Defense are going to pass? Answer that. You're a serious man.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u453	We are not talking about this now. He doesn't say about the Department of Defense. Please don't force me to clarify. Please. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u454	I move quickly on to the point on which I must speak before Parliament's plenary on the arrangements proposed by the Ministry of Maritime and Island Policy in this House for adoption. I'm starting and you'll see. Just to illustrate the substance of this proposal, I am tabling a letter dated 25 July 2014 from the then Minister of Finance, Mr. Gika Hardouvelis and the Minister of Shipping, Mr. Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, to the then President of the PPA. [[At this point, the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, Mr Theodoros Dritsas, presents for the minutes the above letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] July 2014 on the initiated course of privatization. An excerpt from this letter: As you know, the two ministers say to the President of the PPA, the international competitive procedure is under way for selecting a private investor to whom 67% of the shares will be made available. Ladies and gentlemen, following the agreement of the summer of 2015 and in very narrow conditions, our Government managed, instead of giving 67% of the shares to the new concessionaire, to give 51% of the competitive process and the other 16% were held, with abstract sects, if they were implemented and secured within this five-year period. The coastline of fertilisers, within this suffocating framework, and not easily confirming to you, has been excluded. They also excluded: Protection of many archaeological sites and other areas of coastal municipalities. Ensuring the crisis of critical facilities of the Port Body and projectors within the port of Piraeus. Otherwise, it would not have a port facility to use the Port House, according to the notice, which was in progress and which we changed to pressing time with statistically supposedly pursued pursuits. Ensuring development objectives for the Problem 1. The safety costs of the port by the ISPS code and its application, instead of where the State intended to have it, were borne by the investor. The protection of immovable property outside a land area. Conservation of public character and public interests in a number of issues. Finally, to ensure, at a first level, but very important, the reference, which did not exist in the plan until that time, to stable and secure labour relations and to the port of Piraeus on the cause and continue for the port of Thessaloniki. This procedure is not over. In the new conditions of the privatised ports, which emerged for our own government through the well-known ways and procedures, we have not stopped and we will not stop labour relations both in Piraeus and Thessaloniki being stable and safe and not safe.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u455	Minister, just one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u456	Mr President, I shall refer to my speech yesterday after that, because all the rest came up. I'll try to testify to the rest at first opportunity. In any case, starting with a new way of managing the ports and on the basis of developments in privatization of the ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki, we are forming a new port model and with the new responsibilities and self-control that we assign to the Regulatory Authority of Ports, which ceases to be a leaf of figurative control and becomes an essential tool for monitoring the issues of competition rules. And at the public port authority, which is established for the first time and is a pro rata application of the European model and model that exists in all the ports of Europe, we are conferring all the public interest which the Piraeus Port Agency and the privatising Agency has so far been able to retain, which is accepted by the concession contract itself. I don't have any more time. This bill could really be a separate bill, and that's where we'd be able to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u457	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u458	I'm done, Mr. President. I am tabling two more tables of importance: what responsibilities do the Ministry and the Secretariat-General of Ports hold in order to prove that the Ministry and the Secretariat-General of Ports fails to lose one responsibility. We must not be concerned about this. On the other hand, I am putting forward what powers the Public Port Authority assumes, in order to be serious, that not only is it a empty shirt and a hole in the water, but it is a very serious process, which, if supported - and supported - will also contribute to transparency and legality, but also to the development perspective aimed at the public and social interest in the operation of the privatised ports.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u459	Thank you very much. The President of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Gennimata.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u460	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today a humiliating page of Greek history is written. Today, we know, with documentary and not speculation, where populism and demagogy, lies and incapacitation, polarization and division led to the country in degrading supervision, democracy in containment, public wealth in the management of foreigners for a century and the homes of the Greeks in the 'brows' of the market. What about all this? To get their money back, the lenders. That's a great success for Mr. Shoeble. It's an agreement on defeat conditions. This is the agreement you are bringing to the House today, Mr Tsipras, ladies and gentlemen of the government. Your salary is worth it! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] The man who would abolish the memorials with a law and an article brings memorials forever. The man who started his speech saying "we are every word of the Constitution", today, undermines and circumvents the Greek Parliament. The man who would change Europe is the willing Prime Minister in the European Union of the most conservative circles. The man who would dance the markets with dugs and junkies, today, is setting up a auction dance. The man who would give dignity to the Greek people bears unspeakable burdens to the weakest, dissolves the middle class and leads the country to poverty. So let go of the whining and the lies. It's the time of truth. All you care about and unite is the chair of power. The draft law reflects the hideous face of your political choices. You have a policy that brought the country to the edge of the cliff, loaded us with the most horrendous memorandum, the third and fourth, closed the banks, imposed the capital controls, cost Greece more than 86 billion, as the Governor of the Bank of Greece says, 12.5 billion meters for the Greek people, transferring Greek wealth and limiting national sovereignty. The results of this bill, ladies and gentlemen, are summarised in four points. Point one: the country in humiliation. In the way you agreed to institutionalise the automatic budgetary adjustment mechanism, the so-called cutter, you put the country in a narrow corset through life. Mr. Shoeble's dream of having the Eurozone budgets in his bed takes flesh and bone - where? - in Greece, when everyone is talking about the relaxation of Maastricht. Yes, Mr Tsipras, you can now say that you will probably not be able to vote for a memorandum anymore. Strangely enough for the first time, you'll be telling the truth, because you won't have to. Today you are voting on a memorandum for ever, with measures which the House will not have to vote on, by way of summary procedures, with presidential decrees, everything will be solved. You broke the memorials, Mr. Tsipras. You can say that you put a perfect one on them. I want to be clear. Correction procedures are also provided today and well, with a recommendation, but the financial board, with the choices of the government and finally the provisions of law, as is done throughout the rest of Europe, in order to prevent the problems and not to intervene in retrospectively. But to the cutter who has been sharpening for six years and who have been willing to bring us to you, special and immediate interventions are provided, which will be imposed from outside, and which will include wages and pensions horizontally. But also in the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, the Minister of Finance will monitor as a mere spectator, but the Troika Commissioner will be critically present. Yes, the General Secretariat of Public Revenue must operate with credibility and transparency, regardless of the government, but this does not mean that it must be directly dependent on the Troika. The second point is public wealth in foreign management. You deliver the entire public property essentially to the full control of the lenders with the right to veto the troika. It is not just that, in total contrast with what you have declared so far, all companies and public participations are allocated for ninety years for sale. It is also the fact that the troika through the supervisory system will have a decisive role in the management and investment of agencies, but evil does not stop here either. You have accepted for the first time in six years, and that not a single euro on the revenues of the demilitarisation will go to growth and to social dividends, such as insurance, which we have proposed and insisted on. But what's going to happen? It will go 50% to debt and 50% to make them more attractive to sell, to the next companies, to sell the price from which it will also pay off the debt. But by, ladies and gentlemen of the government, our national wealth as a whole for debt management, you are decisively undermining any prospect of growth in this place. Of course, there is no point in checking by the House on the actions in question. This approach, with the full acceptance of the government, takes us back about a hundred and twenty years. It turns us into the era of International Economic Control and its raw interventions, at the time of the allocation of the revenues of the state monopolies. Good for you! It also turns us into the eras of great movement against the sale of public transport by the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis at that time. I have said that as long as it's going to be, New Democracy and SYRIZA sounds more and more the same and before you're singing, behold! Take back, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the provision for urban transport now. We will fight to protect healthy businesses, quality services to citizens, cheap ticket, workers' rights. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] All this can be done through public urban transport. We have also faced unbearable pressures from the troika in more unfavourable budgetary conditions. The excess of public property has always been a central place of lenders. I would like to remind you that something similar to what is happening today had proposed since February 2011, Mr Derus, for the 50 billion from the use of public property. The PASOK response was immediately, instantly and efficiently and was replaced by a member of the troika. We weren't there. On the initiative of the PASOK in November 2012, an amendment was adopted, according to which Parliament has knowledge of each demilitarisation separately and at the end validates. We say 'yes' to specific and selected privatizations as well as to the synergy of a state and private sector, but it is linked with the development, with transparency and contracts under the control of Parliament, of what you are now blocking. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL, what you have accepted and voted on, the Greek people do not accept them. Point 3. The houses and businesses of the Greeks in the market crows. The PASOK governments had a comprehensive policy to deal with red housing and consumer loans through the process of n. 3869, a policy which created a condition of write-down and universal protection of the first home. The protection of the first home here is limited and we end up in full release by auctions in eighteen months. Retreat and accept what we have fought for very great battles. But, of course, you are consistent with a slogan you had all the time: 'No house in the hands of a banker'. In fact, you will not give the houses to the bankers, you will give them to all kinds of money marketed, what you called 'brows' until yesterday. Once again, good for you, ladies and gentlemen of the government! Point 4. A tax storm that will drown every household and business, but eventually any prospect of recovery of the economy. I'm coming to the big tax storm. There will be taxes everywhere for everyone and everything. Of course, some Members are trying to drown out the voices around them, perhaps some voices inside them, reminding them of what we say: 'Where are you young enough to say that I would become someone else?' They complete themselves and institutions with reports that tax increases are for people who drink and smoke, so they advise to quit smoking, coffee, drink and live more healthy, not to pay the above taxes. Original recipe! Except they didn't read the law well. I guess now they will recommend and not move, not to sleep, not to heated their homes and not to call, perhaps - I would add myself - and not to remember. Because so, they may also forget the ENPIA, which has not only been abolished, but lives and reigns at the expense of citizens, but also at the expense of Greek businesses. The Minister, in the most natural style, told us 'all right, only five hundred thousand, four hundred thousand households will be affected by this regulation'. In other words, one-and-a-half-half-three million Greeks -- including owners who have a house with a plot outside the city plan or closed, non-electrical property. Amongst these, of course, are the farmers, who will be invited to pay for the parcels an increased tax of 23% on average. With regard to extra taxation on wine and beer, I fear that it is the charismatic shot and indeed, in a sector of Greek production which, in recent years, has managed to stand on its feet, to show extrovert, innovation. It is precisely these examples that we should support and translate into all areas of the Greek economy. But you're coming now and you're really punishing them. Consider what the Greek citizen has to pay today. I would like to point out that at the time you are not applying the TEI decisions to uniforms, you are wasting money to hire other continents and create new general secretariats. Listen. Cut the job and, at least, implement the decision of the HR. Totally, the taxes, indirect and direct, of the Tsipra - Kammenos memorial amount to EUR 6.8 billion. 'We are taxing', says the Deputy Minister, 'but everything - we are protecting the social state'. I am sure that he will know very well that the indirect taxes affect, precisely, the weakest, and of course the reduction in the tax that you have imposed. You know very well that they undermine both employment and growth and investment. But, Minister, what social state are you protecting? This is where you dismantle everything. The eighty thousand beneficiaries, today, and four hundred thousand, tomorrow, of the CSCE, should not be protected, or here is no special role because your partner does not claim anything, so you are not in danger of losing authority and your government falling? Are these pensioners of 650 euros rich Greeks, or are they tax-bunkers, as they were called your MPs? With the pressure we have exerted all this time, you seem to understand that you cannot retroactively take this measure. But that's not enough. Take back now the device for the ESS. [[Applause from the wings of the PASOK Democratic Assent - DIMAR]] It is not generally the case, Mr Tsipras. The only precedent for this account that the Greek people have to pay today is Mr Varoufakis. Does his name remind you of anything, or was that also a delusion? Ladies and gentlemen, the government's euphoria will only succeed in bringing a few thousand more Greeks to be tax debtors. The evaluation, even if it is completed, does not in itself provide a viable solution for the country. The new delusion is that the closure of the evaluation will trigger growth. With what information does the Prime Minister make these predictions? If Mr. Tsipras, instead of closing in Maximou with bars around, saw what was happening in everyday life, he would find that the recession, according to ELSTAT, in the first quarter of 2016, reaches 1.3%. The constant taxes you place undermine growth and remove investment. The development law has not yet been filed. The plan that has been given for consultation with so many months is not saying anything about these investments that are cowardly in this climate has already begun. A plan to support small and medium-sized enterprises does not exist. The padlocks are growing and most companies of this kind are thinking of leaving Greece. The big investment in our country is undergoing a ruthless hunt, without pretext and without excuses. Fortunately, the construction of the TAP was designed by PASOK and Giannis Maniotis, which you fought rabies in the previous years and today with a lot of nerve you cut the ribbons as well. Liquidity in the market quite simply doesn't exist. Banks, despite their recapitalisation, still do not especially finance those most in need, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are oxygen to get the Greek economy ahead. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Of course, development and exit on the markets with capital controls very simply cannot, Prime Minister! And the resources of the Juncker package, 30 to 40 billion, are just ponding! So what development are you talking about? I do not believe in any way that Mr Tsipras and his Government can eject the stimulus of the economy. They don't believe it, they don't know, they can't! On the contrary they do, they compress the spiral downwards. Ladies and gentlemen, the government says 'but we will have a good debt agreement'. You have not pushed the partners all this time to implement the 2012 Eurogroup decision. Of course, how do you do that? With what negotiation? With the back on the wall? Today there is a clear need to improve this agreement. In debt you go and get what the European Union is giving you, which does not want to hear about a nominal reduction in debt and what the International Monetary Fund demands. Listen, we will help our country in terms of debt, as we have done all this time and we will make use of all our contacts and relations with the European Social Democrats to achieve this. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, the government with its policy for the last sixteen months has multiplied the deadlocks. It has a thin, marginal majority of fifty three Members. Mr Tsipras and his Government are increasingly isolated from both political and social. With the vote, and above all, ladies and gentlemen, when these measures are implemented, the popular outcry will fade, discontent will grow and take the form of an explosion. The challenge is escalated in all social groups, in every corner of the country, in every region, in every county, in every town, in every village. You cannot see the Greek citizens in the eyes, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, neither the farmers nor the women, nor the workers, nor the scientists, nor the professionals, of course nor the new generation! Today everyone realises that the SYRIZA - ANEL government managed to turn Greeks' expectations and hopes into a daily nightmare. The theater of irrationality with the government and the Prime Minister will be over soon. Be sure! This bad show is over, because it's out of viewers, it doesn't cut tickets. But the question is that this government's deadlock should not be made a dead end to the country. "Go away, you come" we've lived four times since 2012 and we've always been at a worse spot than what we started. Finally, we should make decisions in this country on the basis of national interests rather than the dream of becoming a Prime Minister. The country needs a national line and a national understanding government to implement it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u461	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u462	We have this position since 2012, and we insist. Even at this time SYRIZA and the New Democracy will have to realise that a valuable time and opportunities have been lost. Gentlemen of the government, you have kneeled, but you will not kneel to Greece. We're moving on. We are moving on with a great progressive alliance to implement progressive reforms. Because reforms are not fashionable or alibi to continue the bleeding of the Greek people and austerity policies. They've got a badge. We are moving on with the traditions of the great democratic party and the truth. The lies, the deceit and the illusions we give to you, the gentlemen of the government, the gentlemen of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. We are starting a long path towards the Greek people, with a high patriotic objective, to unite the creative forces of the Greeks around a realistic progressive plan of exiting from the crisis, but also a new perspective, especially for the new generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u463	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty students and students and seven educational attendants from the 21st Municipal School of Serres and from the 12th Municipal School of Kozanis. The House welcomes you. Thank you, and thank you for being here with us. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Michaelakos, President of the People's League - Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u464	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the subject of today's sitting, I would like to announce that according to the first exit Poll broadcast from the channels of Cypriot television, for the first time in the history of Cyprus, Parliament is given nationalists. The National People's Front is in the House of Cyprus! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] We are talking today about a Memorandum of Understanding. Since the writings are left, I will remind you of what I said on 4.10 in the morning - no parliamentary procedure, but coups, as was then stressed, not just by me, but by many - on 14 August. That is not only to the government but also to those who then voted for the SYRIZA agreement, that is to say, the Left Memorandum. I therefore had features: “The question of the new memorandum was therefore urgent. The measures of the new Memorandum of SYRIZA are hard and strict." Can you hear it, gentlemen, from today's opposition, for you to vote 'no'? It's tough and strict. You said, however, 'yes in the agreement and the measures are your case'. Today the measures are coming, you are voting against them. Do you have that right? Yeah, you got it. In the name of politicism, the vote, to make them antimony today - all we have not heard. Tonica: neither New Democracy nor the PASOK nor the Potami, which will vote for this agreement, is covered in any way. In fact, according to what this draft proposes, you say that it is not governed by English law - you said that, gentlemen of the Government. But, having accepted Memorandum I and II, Greece's mortgage, what does it matter if the Memorandum III is not governed by English law? It's like you've mortgaged your house twice and said that you're proud because you don't assume it the third time. Indeed, the fact is that, at the moment from the new SYRIZA Memorandum, not only will farmers and free professionals be affected, but many other sectors too. The worst of all, however, is that they will not give rise to the measures and we will lead to a new deadlock, to the deadlock that we have actually led today, to a dead end which has, of course, been dismantled by various procedural, genuinely outrageous acts such as the seven and a thousand-page bill. I wonder whether there is even one Member of Parliament, the opposition or the government, who read this bill. It's certain there's no one, because, if there was, his record would have been written in the book Ginas. However, we really live here a measurable tragedy. Scene One: Government Georgios Papandreou first, Papademos then Samaras - Venizelos. In the first scene of the project, memorials are PASOK and New Democracy and antimony are SYRIZA, who shouts for sold-out, for traitors, for german gypsies, etc. Scene two, after January 2015: Government SYRIZA and after a few months of waiting, we now have New Democracy to believe that this people eat spoon - and perhaps a large part of it eat - that the law of oblivion prevails and so suddenly we see New Democracy in its new antimony role. I wish it was sincere, but we will consider whether it has any meaning or whether it is just an impression battle. My colleague, Mr Koutsoukos of PASOK, referred yesterday to international financial control. He said he remembers from the years of his youth that there was the famous monopoly. I would remind you that international financial control was imposed on our country in 1898, after a lost war, in 1897. This is where we had no lost war. We had the lost war by pimps, contractors, the exploiters of the Greek people, who consistently fight - and that is why they fight it - only the Golden Dawn. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] So, as he said, Mr Koutsoukos said, there was a monopoly on salt, tobacco, lighting alcohol and some other species. In relation to what we are now signing, with the memoranda, was extremely humanitarian. Because then they said as long as the Greek people from this kind, they will pay this tax. Now they are asking for a certain amount, which, if not fulfilled, other things are coming, and in particular, we are starting with the famous cutter, which is a commitment that the Greek Parliament will be voting on, in the event that the tax evasion measures are not rendered, which are certainly not going to yield. I would remind you that Greece, the Greek state, has to collect from its citizens 87 billion dollars and cannot collect them. How do you hope to collect them and not be the cutter, it's a miracle. This contour essentially abolishes the Greek Government after transferring political power and decision to foreign decision-makers, in particular to the famous Community and to the other trading partners. Not to mention details of the provision of a 2% reduction in the general government's budget of 3.6% of GDP and to speak of the exceptions, because this cut also has exceptions. Some things cannot be cut off and are clearly defined. The categories of expenditure which are excluded from the reduction for reasons of social protection, the protection of public investment and the basic functioning of the bodies of the General Government are clearly defined. This is where we have two specialties. I'll stand in two. One is clearly mentioned - and my colleagues from the Golden Dawn have said so - to those who relate to claims by individuals from the execution of public contracts. Where does that refer? In the noble class of "pimps", as the former Prime Minister, who at the same time are public works contractors, television stations, newspapers and sometimes football clubs, had called it. But, to be honest, why should the European Union impose this on us? Why should the European Union ask for the exception of this noble sector, which is shunning our country? For the simple reason that all these gentlemen have partners. They are technical consortia where honest companies are involved - so we are told - Germans and French, all those who sold us the weapons systems at a price of three times as much as they actually had and which has been shown to be hatred. There is, however, another exception, which was not mentioned by anyone and which made me very impressed. There is also an exemption clause in cases of disasters or force majeure. What do we mean by force majeure? It's very simple. We mean the case of war. In this case, the institutions should be consulted, as should the real GDP growth of 0.5% by the objective of the memorandum. So what does this thing tell us? It tells us that if there are reasons for force majeure - and for force majeure it is war - the Community must give us the right to defend the Greek islands and the Greek country. That is unacceptable and should at least be omitted. I'm coming to the indirect taxes. Mr Mitsotakis also said in his speech that these taxes are extremely unfair. But since indirect taxes are so unfair, why did they actually apply to the days of the New Democracy - PASOK Government? Overall, indirect taxes will amount to EUR 1.8 billion. This is a capital tax of EUR 180 if we calculate that we have ten to eleven million people, but who will pay for it - pay attention - both the audible and the poor and the poor, and also the multimillionaire. That's called a levelling. That's called injustice. That's called capitalism. Within the indirect taxes of course there are many anti-grassroots measures, such as the increase in VAT, which is the largest in Europe, and also the increase in reduced rates of VAT on our islands, Thassos, Andros, Tinos, Karpathos, Milos, Skyros, Alonissos, Kes, Antiparos and Sifnos. I'm going on about the legislation of the days. Taxes and tobacco, taxes and fuels, everywhere. I should like at this point to comment on the speech by the Chief of Staff Responsibility, Mr Mitsotakis. He said in a quote of his speech, referring to reductions in some category of pensioners, that the pensioner, losing 2,000 euros, loses his dignity. Hey, no, gentlemen! Man's dignity is not dependent on money. This is a highly neoliberal view, which I consider to be unacceptable. The Greek people were proud even when they were poor, but they had their national sovereignty. The cutter is the measure of your own unreliableness, he said in addressing the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras. We're totally in agreement. But what he's gonna do about the cutter, he didn't tell us. He didn't commit. He also took the complaint, because Tsipras makes a liberal policy and does privatizations. Indeed, it is worthy of compassion that if Tsipras privatises them all, what will be left to privatise Mr Mitsotakis and his government? He also said that they voted 'yes' for some of the provisions. For what they have been able to sell, they vote 'yes', like the fourteen airports. For the others that have not been able to sell, they say 'no', while basically these measures are governed by the same philosophy. He stressed that the government should leave as soon as possible and referred to the new government of the five-year period 2017-2021. Is it the language that blurred the truth? Or a confession that Mr. Mitsotakis, which is actually happening, does he not want elections? I listened carefully to his speech. No commitment to abolishing what is to be voted on today. No commitment to all that is provided for in today's legislation, which is really nationally unacceptable and leads to the country's sale. He talked about a new policy, which will bring 4% growth. Neither little nor much has he told us that Greece will become China. In order for Greece to become, however, China needs its population to eat, too, from a cup of rice a day and to be satisfied. If it turns the Greek people to such an extent, we may indeed have 4% growth. We have two main issues - unfortunately time is not enough - the issue of red loans and the granting of red loans to the famous funds. First of all, there's a comedy. Today, the Red Fund bill is coming to be passed, a week before the Governor of the Bank of Greece made a statement, Mr Stournaras that foreign funds are fine and that they will not harm the national economy and already foreign funds have been rented and offices, they have also hired employees. Looks like they were sure. Here comes the question: When a housing loan will be sold for 25% of its value, namely a EUR 200,000 housing loan sold for EUR 50 000, why not sell it directly to the private investor? Because you have a big problem, a problem of liquidity. You're saying the money's gonna come out of the bouncers and drawers. This is how they come out, if you give citizens the opportunity to buy red loans. But that is not what the banks do not want and the banks do not want, because they have made partnerships with foreign corporations and the systemic banks, which the Greek people recapitalised with their sweat. I come to the most important one. A Greek holding company is set up, an anonymous company. It includes seventy thousand properties of the Greek state, including five hundred and thirty-nine islands. But you're making an exception. You don't sell the cavalry. You leave the seas free, perhaps to go drown the Greeks, as New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA became Greece. I won't say the obvious. They've been here two days. This anonymous company will in essence own the Greek country and will be in the hands of foreigners. I would like to finish by saying two things. To address the former rulers, New Democracy and PASOK, and the current rulings of SYRIZA, and to tell them that you have received as the state of the Greek nation and converted it into an anonymous company. We, the Golden Dawn, do not recognize this anonymous company and fight it until the state of the Greek nation reborn. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] As for Mr Mitsotakis, who claims - and is right - that the country is being destroyed, that it is degrading to rent Greece for ninety-nine years, we will tell him: What is two months in front of ninety-nine years? Nothing. On September 27, 2013, in the perimeter of the House, I made a statement that I would provoke elections in various regions with the resignation of the Members of the Golden Dawn. The next day, they were arrested with express procedures, me and another five of my colleagues. Here, then, is a glorious stage, gentlemen of the New Democracy. If you want, you can provoke elections to 90% of the country's electoral districts, shoot the government, after you get the majority, as you claim. Otherwise, everything else is words of the air. You will do nothing more with today's agreement than Samaras did a few days after the takeover of power, when in an interview with Pretender he said: "We will honour our signature and there is a continuation of the state." That's what you will do, gentlemen of the New Democracy. You will honor the memorandum, you will honor the sale of the country. Golden Dawn will resist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u465	Thank you. For a minute, Mr. Stathakis has the floor and then Mr. Juliarakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u466	Me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u467	Mr. Chakalotos, I wanted to say. Did you see? In my Greek, I'm in trouble.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u468	Like this. Instead of getting better, you guys get worse. I have a legal addition, which is in Article 56 in the first paragraph. We are abolishing the escalating rates and we will have a rate of 35% on the gross profit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u469	Understood. Mr. Stathakis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u470	It's about the...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u471	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u472	That law... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u473	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Javarra, where are you? Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u474	Mr. Tsakalotos improved Greek in the Chamber rapidly. Well, it concerns the right of members to the Competition Committee, if they are subject to disciplinary procedure, to acquire the right to appeal to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u475	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u476	Mr President, I am sorry, but as Mr Stathakis said, we did not understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u477	It's the mother of learning the repetition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u478	Good. In Article 13 of 2011 in the last paragraph, there is a disciplinary procedure for the members of the Competition Committee. If a penalty is imposed, that is to say, they have had the right so far to appeal to the Staff Code, as it were. Now, the code of conduct applies, but they also have the right to apply for annulment of the decision of the Disciplinary Board before the Council of State. This right has not been granted so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u479	You didn't do anything to tell you good. Only Mr. Tsakalotos... (not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u480	Good. Also understandable. I very much ask the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Kurubli, to take the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u481	I will speak from here, Mr President. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with a disgraceful attack and rhetoric, the Chief of Staff Response came to Parliament and told us about the famous reforms. I think there is no citizen in this country who doubts the necessity of the reforms. But Mr Mitsotakis seems to have remembered the reforms too late. EUR 400 million was spent in the period that was Minister for the famous "administrative reform". Can he tell us a play of this period? Or was most of the money given to the studies? Reforms must concern citizens, not companies. Reforms must be carried out for services which serve citizens. So why, ladies and gentlemen, since we are all concerned with development, did we not have development-related reforms? With regard to codification of legislation, pluralism, what have we done? We all know very well what pluralism means in Greece. We are a country that we may not have production in other areas, but we are productive in laws. What have governments done about the famous codification of legislation? So today's government has already passed the relevant provision in the law of evaluation, Article 40, and it is the National Commission for the Codification of Legislation. So in two, not more than three years, this whole huge task will be a new reality, because it will be launched by this government. I shall mention the second point of the need for reform. Can any of the most recent representatives of the Officerial Opposition tell us what happened with the interoperability of the public databases? What has happened so far, ladies and gentlemen? These last 15 years have been spent EUR 7 billion. This money went to companies mainly for company liquidity, because in the public sector there is virtually no added value from this money, because the databases do not communicate. So much topic was to understand that when you create and promote e-government, units must communicate with each other? So this was not done in the context of the famous'reform'. So I would like to inform the House that with a painful effort today's government and the leadership of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Administrative Reform we have cleared the register and the registry and by October we will have the work of the Civil Registry, on the basis of which, in 2016, in order to be informed, we will attempt to operate the fifteen largest public bases, so that we can really solve huge problems, in the gheran of bureaucracy and pluralism, which are the two Asian sisters strangled in every production activity. These are reforms. Are you going to talk to us about them? So, Mr President, these days I hear the dispute over the famous fund. Ladies and gentlemen, with rhetoric, we are going to commit the country for ninety-nine years, for a hundred years, for a hundred and fifteen years, for so many years. Yes, sir! So this fund will not be judged on the outcome of the work it will produce? So let us see what contracts this company will make, what the content will be, what commitments there will be, what added value there will be for the country, and then come and talk. Let us also talk about something that exists now, at the moment, and it is about the WIDD. So what have you done to this fund, ladies and gentlemen, so that the Greek people know? You've almost booked the deal to sell this hotel to Mykonos with 5m euros and you didn't have time to sign the signatures, the administration Pichoorla came in and arrived at 17m euros, that is, 17m euros. Where would the 12 million euro go? Mr. Doyakos hears that? As far as OPCW is concerned, how much did you agree? A euro over the stock exchange value. How much was the negotiation of the new administration? Eight more euros. That's not why anyone's gonna talk to us about it. The same will be the case with the PPA. I shall also speak on another matter, ladies and gentlemen. There were twenty-eight properties, most of which kept public services. So you took those - for which the services did not pay 1 euro - and you gave them to the HIAD and probably sold them to 'the other parties'. Of this, some money was taken. This money went to debt and you don't tell the Greek people that all that money goes to debt. While from the new fund 50% will go to debt and the remaining 50% will go to growth. So here's a big difference about what you're complaining about. But more to talk about something I personally know. So you took one of these buildings on Kifissia Street, which belonged to the Ministry of Health, you gave it to TIADED and it was sold. And how did you guys sell them, ladies and gentlemen, the great patriots you're crying about the place that SYRIZA will dive into? So you said - for the Greek people to know - to the buyer 'We will sell it to you, but we will rent it to you for twenty and thirty years'. That's what you did with this building. Do you know how much money the Ministry of Health pays in a building that's not inhabited right now? Four million a year, please. These are the conventions and the content of the conventions you signed! Let's just say one more thing, if they want to talk, because on the left, innocence still holds it and doesn't say things as they have to say, so that people understand and at least be careful when they talk. This building was taken without protocol. Do you know why? And those who received it were top lawyers. So why did they receive it without a receipt protocol? Because half of the thirty thousand squares are uninhabited, it's a yapi. The Ministry received it as a building that had to operate and house services. Four million a year. These four million, plus the rest of the twenty-eight buildings you gave, where are they going? Everything goes to debt. These are the contracts you've made! So here there is a difference of understanding as to how you handled public property and how the current government manages it. Because I hear about time, I'd tell you something. Don't play with these issues. It's funny. Time is a good counselor. The panic that persecuted you is a bad counselor for both the country and the country. Ladies and gentlemen, I can hear you and accept that you too have the same concern for the development that we need to bring home. I would ask you, therefore, that I accept that debt is not the biggest element in development. What is the largest element associated with growth? Political stability. What are you doing? You are appalling the political stability of the country and in a way you are saying to the Greek people "negatively interrupted the ideal food that was done" - that is what you say to the Greek people - "and you have brought the government of SYRIZA into power".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u482	Minister, please because programming has been derailed, to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u483	I'm hanging up. Ladies and gentlemen, we must all go to a democratic patriotism that will trigger all the forces of the country. So all healthy forces should be assembled around the effort made by this government. That's everyone's duty. Critically, severely criticised. Not by flying grenades scattered around the world and creating insecurity and harming every effort to be done to create an investment environment in the country. These are your obligations as Opposition and when election time comes after four years, the Greek people will judge us as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u484	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u485	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u486	Why, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u487	I would like to say on an issue relating to the Juliaraki amendment and there are legal problems. He was filed after our speeches. I would like to say to the previous Minister that this is a more serious matter than what the photograph of the client state in Greece said. He's known.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u488	Okay. Facilitate the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u489	Mr President, Mr Juliarakis, on the subject of special wages, has brought an amendment with potential content. I do not want to make political criticism. This is a political criticism, I have nothing to contribute. The depositors should also have some elementary legal competence and, if not themselves, their partners. It's a provision - mockery. It says in the first subparagraph: ‘This provision shall not apply if it is achieved by the Ministries concerned’. Otherwise it applies. The second subparagraph states: ‘The measures that achieve the equivalent financial result shall be established by an act of the Ministry of Finance and shall be entered in the budget for 2017 and 2018’. If this is a change of code there is the possibility, since the Minister is authorised, to do so. If it is not a code change, but it is another measure - for example, what it is about to do with the special salary and has been introduced by amendment - then this is a law. However, the authorisation is insufficient. Before the majority votes, so that there are no legal problems and the mockery becomes a situation, they can see the legislative issue and correct it. You're very welcome. The Minister may not understand what I'm saying, let him ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u490	I would ask Mr Leventis, President of the Centroon Association, to take the floor. Come on, Mr. President. I'd be beg to save and save some time, it'd be good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u491	Time is hard to be a little, more will be. Good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, those left in the Chamber. As far as I can see, the Prime Minister's absence shines. He shines by his absence, he has more serious things to do in his office. It is also glowing by his absence that Mr Mitsotakis, who too has much more serious things to do. I saw from Mr Mitsotakis' speech that he said he would have 2% plus 4% growth and solved the problem. I was pleased to have solved the problem of Greece by Mr. Mitsotakis. Honestly, I found out in his speech at some point that he'd have 4% growth rate plus 2%, so live May to eat a clover! It's May. I have one information, ladies and gentlemen, which I must convey to Parliament, one information which concerns me very much, that as far as the cut-off and the surplus point is concerned, the IMF and the Europeans have drafted the text and Greece has not changed a single 'n'. Did you hear that? I specifically wanted the Prime Minister here today. As for the cutter and the superstition came the text out, Greece did not add a single "and", nor a "n" nor a "n" was accepted the text as it came. That's what it means. It means that there is a text that was given back in the view that there is unreliability in Greece and they said that when the targets are derailed we will cut off some of the codes of money or sell land, the public property, from which the buildings, let's say, of the Ice Arrow, were not excluded. The Ice Bay building is inside the superstition. Only the beaches, which are only sixteen meters up to the winter wave, the red line, the NATURA areas and the woodlands, that is, very specifically, the archaeological sites, were removed. These three. So, the police palace falls under what foreigners may confiscate. Unless you don't understand it, that's why what is excluded is mentioned. Therefore, what is not mentioned is not excluded. The fact that the Greek Government accepted the text on the cut and the text on the surplus, without changing a single 'n' or a 'n', that is a shame for Parliament. And that's not to be forgiven under the logic that it was done to get the dose. Samaras and Venizelos used to say the same thing. To get the dose each time they led the House into a blackmail vote. If I'm not mistaken, the same logic was that you adopted it. For me, however, it is extremely tragic that they do not trust the country. The country in six years has not made any reform, and from now on we have put a mortgage on your property and your people's salaries and pensions, so that we can be okay with the goals, for a surplus so much this year, so much time, so much more. If you have understood what that means, this House, after a couple of hours when it votes, will have committed a crime. He must have granted the national property. At least you should know that the humble Vassilis Leventis told you. And if you accept it as parliamentarians, vote on it. If you consider the dose higher than being mortgaged on all national property, it's in your judgment. It is the conscience of every Member of Parliament. On a television broadcast, which was also a Member of the Central Association, one of the JRC, who said: "Everyone had voted for it, PASOK had voted for it, and the New Democracy voted for it in September, had voted for it as well". "And you're still the Centro Memorandum Association. If you were inside, you would have voted for them, and you'd have voted for them," says Mr. of the JRC. So I will inform the JRC and the Greek people - because I am speaking here in part for the Members, but I know that at the end they are voting in some other way, not to call them party traitors, and the speeches here I am doing primarily for society - I will inform my friends of the JRC that the Centro Association is not a Memorandum Party. The Central Association advocates the view that if we had started reforms since 2009 and had removed pathogens - pathogens are public utility, double and triple pensions, Members' wages, because it is also a pathogen, when the other one eats from garbage cans and from metropolitans - so if we had cut down the pathogens, we could have prevented evil. We should have done what Spain and Italy did, at which the bell rang and caught the evil, did not go into memorials. Kostas Karamanlis did so when Souflias came from Brussels and told him that the bell was ringing and that instead of immediately informing the Parliament and the Greek people about what is going on, he went to elections to escape and shut the "bomb" in the hands of George Papandreou. That's real. That's what happened. So, let the JRC know that the view of the Centro Association is that if we were to remove the pathogens and even if we are to remove the pathogens today, the country will be restored to its trust abroad, which is not today and which is why they have fallen into cuts and overcrowded, because they consider us totally unreliable and corrupt. That's what they think of us. How are we going to resolve this issue in the future? Another House, I imagine, and another government will deal with this. The JRC cannot say that we are a Memorandum Party, because we are a party that believes that in the last fifty years Greece has been bankrupt. And in the last fifty years New Democracy has been governed by PASOK. These two parties ruled. The PASOK now is not where the few MPs are housed, but it's here, it's inside. Inside SYRIZA I mean. For where I turn - in Larissa, in Karpenissi - and I address symbols, I see the prefectural people of PASOK, who I used to know before, former PASOK MPs, mayors. So PASOK isn't there. It's PASOK. And Mr Tsipras does not continue to say that two parties went bankrupt the country, the PASOK and the New Democracy, as if you were another party. The votes and the executives are Pasokji. I'm letting the people judge if I'm telling the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u492	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u493	I'm lying? Okay. You present the white black. You know, party patriotism is a patriotism that blinds man and makes him see the white for black. Mr Kambourakis of MEGA said, in addressing a Member of Parliament, 'Your President has a madness with the word 'ecumenical'. Why do you think I want the universal? Mania? I want it to have a government of two hundred and fifty seats, so that investment can finally come, that someone can trust the country and someone, and that foreigners can see that it is the last attempt to save the country, to change psychology and to trust the country. If you think you're gonna make it on your own, Mr. Tsipras will have a very bad end. For at the moment, it is inhibited by six thermo-heads in New Democracy, who say to Mitsotakis, "Let them collapse. It helps us to collapse and come to SYRIZA "sixty years we have been taking the government. Now we're gonna lose her? As much as it goes and wherever it comes out." But you do not calculate the cost for society. Mr Katrugalos is making friendly efforts to convince that pensions will not be reduced, very friendly efforts by saying that nothing will be reduced. I don't understand that. Remove 1,8 billion. from insurance, but pensions will not be reduced! It's the state. Where he will find these supplements he says, I do not understand. Man doesn't come. I have said that the solution to the Greek problem will rise when the statements are returned, firstly, and then when investments come. Did you see anything of the two? Oh, no. So you drive the country, with monomania and authority, to its self-destruction. But you do not have that right, because you too are citizens of this country. You have relatives. You have children. Faced with these others, whose future you suspect, you have an obligation to think about today's vote. Because you're criminal, if you give it. That's my opinion. I believe that when you ask people to cut their wages, pay, pensions, etc., you have to cut yourself and set your first example. That's my faith. Do you disagree? Let this House decide today, before voting on this law, to cut the wages paid by the President of the Republic, Prime Minister, Ministers, MPs, regional and mayors. That would be a man's thing if this House did. You do not have the right, however, to only drive the people to cut them off. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You don't do the best you can to love again, especially youth, politics. You don't do the best!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u494	You in semester would change the MPs!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u495	Of course, I see smiles. But you know what? I tell you for the second time: These speeches I do less to this audience of Members, who know what they are and how they will act more...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u496	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u497	Is Mr. Javaras disturbed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u498	Don't hold a dialogue, Mr. President. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u499	I take my view.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u500	Keep going! We're wasting time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u501	Societies should listen to us. For society, Leventis entered the House, didn't come in for you, gentlemen. Listen to something. The Dawn and all the newspapers have had good reports on my face, considering that I will support SYRIZA. I see a post I will present here in the Minutes, which he says about Mr Kurublis. I've been with Mr. Kurubli for thirty years before he became friends with you and before he became friends. I've known him since I was a kid. You can ask him. The day when the debate was held at the "Elpida" Association for Children with Cancer, after I had spoken, they gave the floor to Mr Kurubli and his joker, "Your manuscripts". And you know why I told him? Not to offend the blind man. Let me tell you why I said it. Because when I had told the House that it is forbidden for the Members to use the manuscript, I am caught by Kurublis outside and he says: "For everyone else you are right, for me you are not right, Mr Leventis." And a friendship began with the subject of the manuscript. Mr. Terrence Quick was disturbed, Mrs. Fotio was disturbed and they shouted "Greek!", that I offended Kurubl as blind. And he wrote the "World" text entitled "Sports Leventis". And end up with the phrases "And don't forget to take your manuscripts. In other words, he was made redundant for his blindness." I'm sending an answer, describing the whole history, and they didn't put it. That's the answer. I also release the publication of Dawn. [[Mr Vassilis Leventis, President of the Union of Centres Mr Vassilis Leventis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Those reporters shouldn't have called Kurubli at all? In other words, the sense of humor is lost in this Chamber. I, who fights for people with special abilities, am ironic for Kurubli. But for which, although we are thirty-five years friends, I have to say that he left PASOK so he won't vote on memorials. That's all I have to say. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the President of the Union of Centres is repeatedly ringing.]] The caramose, please, Mr. Varremene, stop. The JRC spoke thirty-five minutes and didn't ring the bell.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u502	If you can facilitate the process. Don't ruin your friendship with Mr. Kurubli.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u503	Mrs Cassimatis, a SYRIZA MP - because we have to resolve our differences, I was not in the Chamber - stood up, says one day here and said that what Leventis says about the name of Skopje, says so to get the vote of Thessaloniki, the vote of the Macedonians. Why did I say here in the House? That I met an ambassador of a great state and said to him: 'You have committed a crime that you have gone and you have recognised the name 'Macedonia'. Why did you commit a crime? Because they've been demolished. Then how to retreat. You demolished them and you have a duty to rectify them, to force them to change their name. And we will support them on their accession path in NATO, in Europe, in all." So the ambassador answered me: “What do you say, Mr. Leventis? Samaras, Tsipras, George Papandreou was in favour of the name ‘Macedonia’. They had been accepted." And I replied: Why, if there is a referendum, if George Papandreou or Samaras or Tsipras accepted it, does it mean that Greece accepts it? So I did not say so, Mrs Cassimatis, who has my mother's last name - because it is called "Cassimatis" my mother, who is from Kytheras, I do not know, of course, who Kasimatis is - I did not say so to take the vote in Thessaloniki. I said it for Thessaloniki herself, for her I said it. But you, learned only about the vote, judge yourself! [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] I was told that the "Fraport", which was channelled, purchased the airports of Kos and Rhodes, does not include the term "in case of exceptional circumstances for the Greek army to have control". Do you know that Kos and Rhodes airports were sold and the contract does not include the buyer's obligation to facilitate the Greek army if necessary? These two airports belong to the Dodecanese, where Turkey considers them to be a demilitarised zone. Do you realize what contracts are signed? Mr. Kammens makes the patriot take everything into account, and so on. So please, Mr. Kammenos, check the contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u504	He'll talk later, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u505	Did you check the contract and have it all settled?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u506	There's nothing you're talking about. Don't question it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u507	All right, sir. Cameroon. You told me the same thing about the Department of Defense.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u508	He'll talk later. Mr President, you are facilitating the process. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u509	But at any rate, I do not want to be a bad guy, because I will tell you something else, Mr Cammane. Yesterday I came to the gathering of the Pontians at the Olympic Stylons - I was the only political leader, except, of course, from you, who were as Minister there - we were talking about the Pontius, about the slaughter, the genocide, etc. But I was approached by representatives of the Pontius and I was told that "the one that regrets us is that Mr Philis has offended the Pontius". How do you accept, sir? Kammen, and you coexist with a government that your partner offends those who yesterday - supposedly - honoured? Also, in the name of Macedonia, in the name of Skopje, that is, you have a view not to be used. Mr. Tsipras, as the ambassador officially told me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u510	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u511	You don't? You'll answer later, sir. Cameroon. Don't worry. But I would like to ask what the government's position is. The partners say Nova Macedonia, Mr. Kammenos... But what are you going to say? What is serious here, and what is serious is happening in that country?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u512	Mr President, in order for Mr Kammenos to reply, it is up to you to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u513	I've eaten five minutes, as he said, while others have eaten a lot more. I want to make a prediction right now, even though I'm not in the predictions so good. People will judge if I'm good. I see that by insisting that the government does not become a broad sole of the two hundred fifty seats, this House, and from the point of view of SYRIZA, and from the point of view of the New Democracy, will remain in the darkest colours in history, because you are delaying the recovery of the country. However, as long as you delay it and let the New Democracy also make this parable, the country will raise it upright by a universal government. It's the agony that makes me insist rather than kicking out of Tsipras or bringing Mitsotakis. Besides, I'm proposing a government that isn't one of them and is technocrats. So I don't even choose them as bad. I just think there is a group of very hard people within the parties of SYRIZA and New Democracy, who are doing a great deal of damage in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u514	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u515	I'm sorry, Mr. President. Something essential I forgot to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u516	Mr President, you have to finish before the world has become a reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u517	I'll only need a second to submit it to the Minutes. I sent a letter to Mr. Tsipras on the night of the election. After I told him the signs, to cut one, to cut off the pathogens, I - and I hear where I ended up - to seek our lenders to agree the bonds and obligations of our country over the next five years, decades, to be transferred for payment in the future at a zero rate, so that this money can regenerate our economy and secure a normal political life for foreign investors to come. This letter was given to me by Mr Tsipras on 22-9-2015 and I am tabling it for the Minutes. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u518	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, 33 students and students and 3 educational attendants from the 25th Municipal School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the Party now has the floor, Potami, Stavros Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u519	So we live a reversal of roles. You sell and the previous ministers resist. And the people look slack. You are ready - I see it - after the discovery of Mrs Merkel's charm, at the next turn to discover Mr. Soible's charm. Mr. Tsipras keeps setting traps to the bad guys, and he keeps falling in. In the spring of 2015 - remember them - we told you "go a deal, because the banks will close", but you wanted to live it all: "My love, I closed the banks". And so many months now, this year, we told you 'find the evaluation, because you will have to sell it all out, sign it all'. You were whistling indifferently. When will you find out? Time is real money in politics. And your delays, your recurring, in combination with your inability, cost billions to the Greek people. The "leventic" negotiation has cost 86 billion and 45 billion have been raised by the banks since you took over the government. Please note: ‘The fact that the assessment should have been completed in November 2015 and is still pending, consolidates the climate of pessimism for the economy and prolongs the recession in 2016’. That's what the House's Budget Office said. So let's go see what you're going to do with this bill. In August 2015, it was voted that the Disaster Fund will be managed by the Greek State and the institutions will be supervised. Today, you will vote with pleasure, with dignity, in a lamentation, on the assignment of the management of the state's property for ninety years to creditors. The ninety-nine years, which you legislate, will make Greece Argentina. We don't have anything left. And we should have the courage to decide what we give and what we do not give. We cannot say that we can sell the networks, for example, of energy. We are in favour of immigration, but there are infrastructures that need to be left in the state. Final decisions must be left to the State. To borrow your vocabulary, we are ahead of the creation of a new colonialism. The term returns to 1898, when the British had rented for ninety years half of Hong Kong from weak, then, China. Potami considers that the use of public property must be done, because it creates jobs. However, the transfer of all the assets of the country to a company that is effectively managed by the lenders does not guarantee the public interest. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, gentlemen of the ANELs, have come to power by dividing the Greek people. You were saying - do you remember the phrase? - that some Greeks are not so Greek and now your national proud government with an article in a law gives the troika powers that Parliament and the Greek government have. If one had dared to do something like this, you would have put him on fire as a traitor and set up special courts and hangers every day in the Constitution. So what's SYRIZA? Where's he taking it? What's still going to happen? How many tumblings are going to happen on what issues? These are, unfortunately, some of his critical questions today. SYRIZA and ANLL constantly add taxes. They believe in the great state. They're destroying competition. Even the multi-participating companies are, as Aristos Doxiadis wrote in his article, under persecution in Greece, since the shareholders are responsible for all their assets, in case the company has debts to IKA or tax. That government does not really believe in the private initiative. He believes in the party and the guilds. And he uses the Republic of la card with temporary and paradoxical alliances, so he can eliminate what he doesn't control. The recipe is, of course, known from the past. It was followed by several other ministers of the Memorandum Governments: taxes, more taxes. We in the Potami region have made concrete speeches that may save in the Greek state 3 billion euros, but you are still unable to promote the interconnection of economic services and the universal application of electronic invoicing. Where's the revenue from the smuggling of tobacco, fuel, alcohol? Where's the revenue from the lists of large tax collectors? Nothing! On the contrary, after every tough negotiation, you raise taxes. Mercy! Don't negotiate anymore! After the wine, tax the beer. In other words, you honor - and here there is perhaps a misunderstanding, you may not know - the Greek producer, because you need to know that the beers that the Greeks drink - whether they are labels of multinationals or local labels, that is, small brewers' works - are made here in Greece. You are hitting a Greek product and you are not answering a simple question: why beer and not hard imported drinks? A month's pay is lost by the Greeks with the new measures this weekend, the new ISPA, an additional tax even on the parcels and the wealth threshold goes down from EUR 300,000 to EUR 200,000. Suffocation! This feeling dominates everywhere. You have frozen the citizens, you have immobilized life. Asphyxiation to the taxpayer who pays, but does not see results, asphyxiation to the pensioner who evaporates his pension, while public care is in a coma. I went to the hospitals in Lassithi, Agios Nikolaos, Ierapetra, Sitia. They're looking for SYRIZA MPs, but they're not even on the calls. "Dumping" is, unfortunately, the word describing the situation in regional hospitals. Asphyxiation to the new scientist desperately looking for a solution abroad, asphyxiation to the small and medium-sized businessman who sees the calendar as a horror movie, 22, 23, 24, 25 of the month. Rehearsal of death every end of the month for every operation! Suffocation in education and culture. A bourdology and a levelling point where we should all seek creation and excellence. And at the universities you complete the big return to yesterday. Asphyxiation and countryside. Instead of strengthening Greek production, we constantly have new obstacles. Instead of security, we see in the region abandoned at the mercy of all kinds of mafia refugees. And suffocation, of course, in justice. Her axe is strengthened, her independence check. Your populism, your frauds, which are now being baptized illusions, have caused a crucial blow to the credibility of politics. People are shouting - and this is bad for everyone - that 'all of them are, they are all liars'. Citizens believe that the state is a 'black hole', a country without compass. And because none of the important things you can do well, you hide behind the images. You play with the religious feeling of the Greeks, if they feel sorry for you. Not the saints, but the faithful. [[Applause from the river wing]] You are also involved in the army in these pursuits, in your efforts to forget what you promised. You will tell me, however, that planes were once spraying, now planes are carrying religious symbols as Heads of State. It is also a step forward! That is what we mean here on the river, when we say that your government is a government 'whatever'. You play on all the tableaus, and Mr. Friend's unworthy religion, and Mr. Kammenos's religion. But to go back to the bill now. You're saying there's no other way than taxes. You say it everywhere, on the channels, on the radios, on the newspapers. However, your interlocutors in Europe also disguise you. The Vice-President of the Commission said that you, the government, chose to increase taxes rather than cut expenditure. You're talking about investment and growth. But who will invest in these taxes? A company that has a profit of 100 thousand euros will pay 44 thousand euros, except for the solidarity levy! In Cyprus it will pay 12 thousand euros. So who's staying here? The "Nexalite on the Road with Taxes" is your scenario! Your inability will also bring a fifth Memorandum, because the delays are bringing us here. From 'no, we're not selling', ladies and gentlemen, who yelled at the square, you're going to 'take it all away and do us a favor'. With the new taxes, sincere taxpayers are getting poorer and tax-raisers are getting more. A new explosion of tax evasion and tax evasion is before the gates, because it is not enough - and it is never enough - to fear that the citizen will pay tax. He wants and he wants to believe it, he wants to hope, he wants understanding and he wants revenue. In the red loans from "no house in the hands of a banker" we went to the other end. We are asking - be careful - one particular thing: banks, before selling loans, are able to buy them for those borrowers who meet certain criteria. Cyprus did it. It has enabled the borrower to submit a proposal to the bank for the acquisition of its own loan. So we want acts and not theories. We should agree - and we should have done so already - to create an effective mechanism to reduce public spending. Set it up in the standards of the independent authorities and with the order to locate waste, with a tight timetable. We can save billions if we move decisively and with a plan. We all know the joke 'Herani'. The public - if we have our god! - pays 2.6 million a year for a ready-to-eat building that's empty. And he pays this year and paid last year and paid last year. The irrationality of all greatness! The state, the state retreats so that some of the rents that give them the public and that some guilds don't get undone, 2.6 million a year. Take note, today the government has fifty - five secretary-general. Make the additions. It shall have fifty five Secretary-General, fifteen Special Secretaries and sixteen Administrative Secretaries. The law you bring will add sixteen Deputy Administrative Secretaries, fifty Sectoral Secretaries and nine Special Sector Secretaries. The wages of all these are the retrospectives of the ESS that you are asking behind the low pensioners. [[Applause from the river wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, as the youngest in Parliament, we want to tell you that glasses in the rooms of power are not glasses, they are mirrors. You think you look at others while you look at yourself. That is exactly what the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has suffered. It is confusing the country's interest in its own interests and in the fact that it is in power that it signes everything. This is not the first time that the country has been bankrupt, nor is it the first time that it has been humiliated by international financial control. However, the last time an international financial control was imposed a century ago, a hundred and twenty years ago in particular, the control of certain public revenue sources and not the control of all the state's assets was granted. Your displacement is unlucky, and that's why the ship is in danger of being batteryed. And according to the popular readings of your people on the media and the websites, the IMF a month ago was terrified by the leaking of its officers' conversations in Athens. You got into a confrontation. What did you do? Can you even now tell us? Mr Pappas was forced to go like a wet cat in the United States and apologise, saying, "We did not raise the issue of the participation of the IMF." That's what the Minister of State said. Even now, will you tell us what you want from the IMF? To leave or to stay? Are we on the debt issue with Shoeble or the IMF? Don't tell me better not to be with anyone, because the Greeks win when they manage to set up alliances. That's what our story teaches, as long as you're with the ones who go the story forward, don't be with the "Madours". You will allow me here to open a small parentheses. There have been complaints by women about the Venezuelan ambassador. The river through the only woman in Parliament, Mrs Marcos, has taken the initiative to put a question to the Prime Minister, signed by dozens of four-party MPs. We expect you to respond soon. However, the only move you can make is the defence of women, the defence of the rule of law, the defence and not the covert in the name of racism. What do we do, however, is the big question. It is true - and many say so, almost all wings - that the country cannot go on like this. Potami says he needs a new social contract. We need a change force, a change decision that will move the overwhelming majority of the Greeks. Reforms and consents are two preconditions, the most important of our new deal, specific goals and a determined leadership, that is, what it has always wanted from its establishment, a new deal for a new beginning. Otherwise, the memorials will succeed each other until they are kneeled by taxes and the last citizen. To hear again the "for Greece, fuck" in the place of "for power, for fuck's sake" who constantly shout out those who fight for their chairs. Ladies and gentlemen, the measures adopted today are a sign of the extreme amoralism of SYRIZA. Who can consent to these policies? No one, apart from your twin brother in amoracism, the ANELs, who also became professionals of power, the theory of conspiracy and populism. He chose that Mr. Tsipras be cut off from creative society. He chose incubation to the limits of nationalism. So you will walk on your own, because the Potami cannot be an accomplice to your political crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u520	Thank you, Mr. Theodorakis. The President of the Independent Greeks and Minister of National Defence Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u521	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if no one knew what would happen next week in Europe, where the fate and exit of the country from this five-year adventure will be judged, and listened to today's debate in Parliament, it would indeed be thought that a bill that leaves room for political gossip is being discussed here. And that is the message that we need to move to the Greek people today, that, unfortunately, the opposition, instead of supporting the national effort that reaches its end with the redemption of the Greek people, with a decision that finally refers to the assessment and takes a stand on the debt - our commitment from the first moment - we hear incredible things. I have previously heard Mr Theodorakis, who, instead of referring to this bill and to Tuesday's decision, attacked the pilgrims who are going to worship Virgin Somola, whom we did not carry. The Panagia Sumella Association accepted our request and transferred it to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u522	Please don't react. Listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u523	God sees us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u524	And he thinks that the Greek people who go to worship are a religious and nationalist. On the other hand, he deals with an ambassador's sexual adventures. Of course, he didn't leave the rest of the leaders.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u525	Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u526	We have listened with caution even by very sympathetic Mr Leventis, whom I would like to assure you that the decision of the political leaders under the President of the Republic of Konstantinos Karamanlis on the name of "Macedonia" has not changed and Greece has a national position which is unnecessarily unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u527	What's he saying now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u528	Has it changed, Mrs. Bakoyannis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u529	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u530	Of course, it's changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u531	Meaning?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u532	And you voted for it, Mr. Cammene. It's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u533	Mr President, please do not ask, because you will get answers and become a special circle over a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u534	I think it is very important to hear what the New Democracy says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u535	Please proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u536	Wait a minute. I am referring to the decision under the President of the Republic not to use the term 'Macedonia' and I hear Mrs Bakoyannis saying that her position has changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u537	You have voted for another position in person.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u538	I personally have not voted for such a position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u539	Of course, as a member of the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u540	I would remind you, Mrs Bakoyannis, that in the government to which you were Minister for Foreign Affairs, Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis then vetoed the non-participation of Skopje under the term "Macedonia" in NATO.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u541	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u542	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u543	Mr President, it cannot say what it wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u544	It's not personal. You were once in the same party. Okay, there's a thing. It won't be clarified here. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u545	The Greek people and I think the New Democracy MPs also listen with interest that Mrs Bakoyannis says that the position and decision of the Council of Political Heads under Konstantinos Karamanlis on the term "Macedonia" has changed and that is not the position represented by the New Democracy. I think it is very important for the people of New Democracy to listen to this and, of course, the Members of Parliament, especially the Macedonian Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u546	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u547	Didn't you say? If I'm wrong, I'll fix it. You said that the decision has been changed by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u548	He'll answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u549	Please answer now. In historical terms, I do not think there is any room.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u550	However, within the material of the bill we are discussing, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u551	If the decision taken by the political leaders under the President of the Republic of Constantine Karamanlis has been changed, I really grant Mrs Bakoyannis my time to answer. It's a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u552	Do I have to answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u553	Let me tell you, Mr Bakoyannis, before you answer that Mr Kammenos raised a very general issue, apart from today's agenda and outside the draft law on which he would need - it is obviously no domestic or intra-group issue on one side of the House - to have a debate with the relevant ministers and others on all sides of this House. These things can't go like that. I'm just saying. You say your opinion, of course, after you have been provoked on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u554	You can understand, Mr President, that an answer is needed here, because there is a historical reality and that historical reality is not disproved. Before the government of Kostas Karamanlis went to Bucharest, all the wings of the Parliament, with the sole exception of Mr Karatzafiris, had agreed on a national position, which was "complex name with geographical identification, erga omnes". This is the national position, this is what we supported in Bucharest, with it we won Bucharest, and that is still the country's position. If the Minister of National Defence alone, unlike the Minister of Foreign Affairs, follows a different policy, I think Parliament should know that. At that time the coalition, the whole of the parties, agreed on this position, supported by the then Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis and I in Bucharest. Mr. Kammenos was then State Secretary for Commercial Shipping...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u555	But they didn't vote...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u556	... and because the programming statements, the programming statements by Kostas Karamanlis included this position, I must remind Mr Kammenos, who may have missed him, that he voted for the programming statements, that is, then voted for the position that I am saying today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u557	Most Members of the New Democracy applaud. I think that the position of the New Democracy is now that the decision under the President of the Republic has been overturned and the New Democracy agrees with the use of the term 'Macedonia'. This is a clear political feature, which will appear in the next few days whether to agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u558	The position of the government...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u559	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the national issues that have to be clarified as they have been mentioned. I would point out, therefore, to Mr Leventis that the political airports of the Dodecanese, like all of Greece, can be used and used daily by our Air Force, regardless of the governments. In Rhodes there are permanently flying media of the Hellenic Armed Forces and Kos itself. And we will not get permission from anyone, nor will we include the Armed Forces' right to make use of political airports, nor is this included in agreements or documents that we exchange with anyone who agrees to do a job in the country. I think that other interesting issues have still been heard today, but we have not heard what the parties, particularly counter-population, say about the issues that we are coming to decide on Tuesday, the debt issue. I listened carefully to the Chief of Staff Responsibility, who said: "The debt is not the major. Debt isn't the big one. The major is reforms." I have heard him say later that the question is not the assessment, which will be carried out. Of course it will. And evaluation is something that the governments of the PASOK coalition have fought with and failed to achieve. But he did it - and it will appear this Tuesday - this government. And the debt issue, when we put it - and the Independent Greeks and SYRIZA - have been telling us that this is not possible. And today in Europe, even those who fought the issue of the debt debate accept that the debt issue is now part of the agenda. We see the United States, with the intervention of the President of the United States itself, talking about the need to restructure the debt. We see even those forces in Germany that reacted, talking about prolongation. This is a success of the government of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks, it is a success for Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, and this success should be mentioned in the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from the wings of ANEL and SYRIZA]] However, we must also consider the responsibility of our own people and how we have reached this point. More truths have been heard. I am pleased to hear the Chief of Officer's Responsibility saying that today we are calling for a primary surplus of 2% for 2018. This position, precisely, is the opposite position from which the Prime Minister was then taken by Mr Samaras. Mr Samaras was committed to 4.5% primary surplus. In the 'primary surplus' lesson, in other words, Mr Mitsotakis, I must acknowledge it, you have re-examined Mr Samaras and this is a very important change. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the measures imposed have a heavy tax, a tax which is often unbearable for the Greek people. However, it is the last piece of legislation, which concerns not only measures taken directly, but measures which constitute the insurance valve if the predictions of the lenders themselves do not come true. We are not voting today on the cut-off measures. Today, for the last time, the Greek Parliament, before the decision on Tuesday, takes a decision that will give the finance ministers the power to go to Eurogroup on Tuesday and combine Greece's course - which do not want to go back to Eurogroup and to any Eurogroup - with Greece's future and debt write off, debt regulation and debt expansion. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that we should all, here today, of course, also plan a national policy aimed at reducing taxation, making it possible to move forward. And that will happen as soon as the country's foreign image begins to be settled, which we are shaping, ladies and gentlemen, and each one bears responsibility. Instead of blaming the country to the outside, it is much better to join all together in a national line and after Tuesday's decision to fight together, first of all, to protect the Greek people and especially that part of the Greek people who suffered the greatest wounds in this five-year policy. To fight for a tax reduction, for investment to be made, in fact. And it would be much more useful today not to talk about South America. I heard the word Venezuela too many times today. And I would like to remind the Chief of Staff Responsibility that a little norther than Venezuela exists a country called Panama. [[Applause from the wings of ANEL and SYRIZA]] And from Panama's papers there is evidence that some of our fellow citizens, as it turns out from the Lagard lists and the history of Siemens and the offshore companies that were running, instead of paying taxes to the Greek state, made their money abroad and was never punished, except by this government that started and opened the Lagard lists, the Swiss lists. And I firmly believe that this government should very soon send a group of judges to Panama to be able to charge those who robbed the Greek people. I would, however, expect that, and I look forward very much to, all those who have suffered from the immunity of Mr Samaras, do not continue to enjoy the immunity of the New Democracy under Mr Mitsotakis. You have no reason to defend Mr. Papastavrous, you have no reason to have Mr. Safa, because of Mr. Venizelos, to leave him in the abbreviation. These are in 427 panama papers. The branches of the companies that took stock of the equipment and SIEMENS. And we have to deal with them. And I would be delighted if we were at least in this effort.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u560	Tell me about the Red Cross.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u561	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u562	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to tell you about the issue of demilitarisation. We Independent Greeks are not opposed to privatizations. However, the first privatization we have to make, ladies and gentlemen, and I refer to SYRIZA's colleagues, is the privatization of the state from all this mechanism which has worked in post-population, favouring specific interests which are intertwined: The paradigm of the CEMP that decided to prosecute politically entrepreneurs and political opponents. The paradigm of CEDEFOP that gave ads to nonexistent sites and blackmailers to party employees. The paradigm of the EMCDDA that advertised the water and continues to advertise the water, a unique product without a competitor. Why? In order to maintain ‘local’. The paradigm of the banks with the ads they were giving. We have the committee of inquiry in our hands. There we will see what role the media shops were playing, the media shops that took 25% and 40% returns from the media companies. And it will be very useful to see those returns they gave them to who. Owner of media shops that are on the list of CICPs, PPC, HICPs, banks, in accordance with Article 6, does not have a picture of it online and has managed billions of euros. It's time for the bills to be opened in Dubai. It's time for the bills to be opened in Switzerland as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u563	You favour them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u564	Do you, Mrs. Vulture again?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u565	Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u566	Are you of the media shop?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u567	You favour them with the extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u568	Be quiet, Mrs. Vulge, please. Whenever Mr. Kammenos speaks, you intervene. It's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u569	Well, there's going to be a media shop with Mrs. Buddhism, obviously. Well, it's time, ladies and gentlemen, let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u570	You're favouring them with the extension you're giving them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u571	You want to go on?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u572	Ask Mr. Pappa what that means.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u573	Mrs. Vulture, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u574	May I ask Mr. Pappa what it means? Mr. Poppas has so far not managed state funds in media shop. You handled them as a special journalist at election campaigns, Mrs. Vultesis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u575	You're giving prolongation...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u576	Are you continuing now? Mrs. Vulture, don't call you to class. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u577	It'll all be open. And don't try to find it. This side has not been ruled. Mr. Poppas was never a Minister to share in media shop advertising and get back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u578	Refunds will be paid...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u579	But please! Stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u580	But I see you and you're very worried. I recommend you worry more than here. [[Applause from the wings of ANEL and SYRIZA]] I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to say that in this debate it is very important that the debate took place in Parliament and in democracy. When the amendment on special wages was tabled, it was an amendment that really dissolved the entire sectors that are currently supporting the state. The Armed Forces, the Security Corps, the Port Authority, the Greek judges belong to special wages because they do not do the usual work of other workers, especially those who have been working for the last few years on immigration.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u581	Will you vote today?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u582	In fact, the NATO Convention went ahead, Mr. Tents, and as you have seen, we have zero flows. I think you should admit that because you fought her on the first day.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u583	Are you happy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u584	I'm glad there are zero flows. Aren't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u585	Are you happy? When did NATO arrive at a port in the Greek islands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u586	Please don't ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u587	Mr. Tendas, I told you that the migration flows have stopped. Is it about the 6th Fleet catching the ports or stopping the flows? We've done that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u588	Is that the 6th Fleet, Mr. Cammene?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u589	The 6th Fleet at the ports?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u590	Mr President, don't ask, because you're going to get answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u591	Mr Nindias judges the positions and judges the results.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u592	Is it the 7th, the 8th, the 9th and the 10th?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u593	Mr. Teddy, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u594	So the Armed Forces...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u595	I never made personal reports. But I can't even tolerate reports beyond the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u596	What would you like? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u597	I'm talking to the president, not to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u598	You want to keep talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u599	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u600	Because the Chief usually disobeys him later. You speak against NATO...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u601	Mr. Kammene, proceed to your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u602	Continue counting fleets.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u603	Let's count them, then. So we see that those who paid for all this heavy work on immigration were the police, the ports and the Armed Forces. And, of course, the abolition of increases in special payrolls was something I started at the outset to say that it cannot be accepted. After a hard consultation and intervention by the Prime Minister himself and the ministers who called on these special wages to take a stand, the amendment was added, which clearly provides, if an equivalent financial savings are achieved by the ministers concerned, that the plan should not be implemented. As far as the Ministry of National Defence is concerned, I would like to make it clear that the EUR 27.3 million in 2017 and EUR 27.3 million in 2018 will be ensured as a whole by code 6.990, entitled 'New Priorisation for Equipment'. Programs, i.e. armaments, which are not going on for many reasons, will cover 18.6 million out of 27...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u604	What you're saying is not allowed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u605	What's not allowed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u606	Please. Keep your objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u607	Excuse me, have you contacted the troika and told you that it does not allow there to be a transfer from balance sheet?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u608	The law says so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u609	No, Mr. Davaki. No, Mr. Davaki!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u610	Please, Mr. Davaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u611	Mr. Davakis, are you suggesting that the special payroll cut be cut to the military?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u612	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u613	Do you know what code 6900 is?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u614	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u615	Get an amendment!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u616	For the cops, tell us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u617	Please! We're not group representatives here. And you, Mr. Kammenos, don't address yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u618	Mr. Davakis, I inform you that as you have done for the benefit of the Greek State, where as State Secretary for National Defence you have translated old defensive expenses into FPs...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u619	Shouldn't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u620	Of course you did. Mr. Avramopoulos did the same. Do you know that at the moment there are 100 million from 2015 FPI in 2016, which are indisposed? So why should these 27 million not be given by armaments to the payment code for the uniforms, who gave their souls to operate like policemen and porters for immigration?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u621	Get an amendment!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u622	For the Security Corps to say. He's telling us about air codes!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u623	The Security Corps. And the Security Corps.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u624	Mr. Cryazides, will you stop? Please! You are not in a political interrogation process. You're in a political interrogation process, don't you think? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u625	Mr. Lady, why are you sad? You should be sad, so that the cops don't have cuts. You're sad to have cuts so you don't lose them from clientele.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u626	And you, Mr President, do not go into machine details.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u627	You're gonna lose them, what do we do? We protect these categories of special wages. [[Applause from the wings of ANEL and SYRIZA]] And we protect them because we know the work they do. And let them go. Sunday's short celebration.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u628	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u629	So I say that the codes of the Ministry of National Defence have already been submitted, which ensures the entire amount. At the same time, Mr Theodorakis, we are making progress on the use of the property of 34 billion euros of the Ministry of National Defence, on the use that comes next week, with a law already in the Transparency, for the possibility of renting facilities with at least 5% of the objective value per year. We are going to arrangements that will come so that the Armed Forces Committee can sell old materials that are not useful to the Armed Forces. We have endless stockings from specific calibre ammunition for weapons no longer available. We have the possibility of using existing material. Well, that whole material won't continue to live in the warehouses. And most of all...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u630	Where's he going?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u631	This is where I'll be sorry. We now have - after the judicial investigations by companies that have been finalised in both Greece and abroad for bribery - the possibility, by setting up committees, of being able to compensate the Ministry of National Defence and its budget for misery cases, which you have closed your eyes from the time of PASOK. "Remental" only offers by her lawyer around 200 million for bribery, which was finalized in a German court. In other words, you are now telling me that this money, just this company I mentioned at the moment, is actually the two-year budget for all the ministries.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u632	Did you get them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u633	Should we take them or not take them? What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u634	What are we doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u635	Mr President, don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u636	So next week, where you will be rapporteur, I think you will vote on it. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u637	And Chaakatos laughs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u638	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Stop it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u639	Ladies and gentlemen, I am ending by saying that there have also been changes in democratic...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u640	And the Minister of Finance laughs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u641	Mr. Cammane, wait a minute, excuse me. Please. Please. All right!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u642	But are they sad people get money? I don't get it! Well, ladies and gentlemen, there have also been changes to articles that have come, which show all the good intention of the government to engage in democratic dialogue. The equilibrium of the rate of taxation of the OPCW with betting companies gives both companies the chance to stop operating through Malta and Dubai and Panama papers, to come here to open up their companies, hire Greek workers and pay tax, but also to the OPCW to put an end to this dispute with the Greek State, to withdraw the treatment of one billion euros, which will make it easier for the OPCW to work for both its employees and bet companies not to pass through tax havens, which end at one time, as we have seen from the political crisis in Malta, even in political persons. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that many of the opposition you spoke about today when you see the tape of your speech on Tuesday night or Wednesday morning you will regret. We assure you we won't regret it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u643	Mr President, I would ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u644	There is no 'Mr President'. I only mentioned your name. No one else mentioned it. From there if you feel that whoever talks about the police should...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u645	This is where we were personally answered. Shouldn't I report?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u646	Please. Please. The Minister barely entered details, which were not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u647	What details?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u648	Well, the Minister knows.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u649	It's a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u650	Mr. Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras has the floor. [[Sustained applause from SYRIZA Wing]] [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Please! Excuse me, that's where the enthusiasm is, what's going on? What's going on? Take it easy. Here, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u651	Ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago in the debate that took place in the House on the insurance and tax bill, I started my speech by saying that due to a mistaken assessment of the parties involved in the 'Measure Europe' movement, the opposition today lies in a strategic deadlock. And today I think Mr Mitsotakis' speech and what he has done this week demonstrates in the most eloquent way this strategic deadlock. I accused two weeks ago of the Civic Opposition that from an eminent governance party has turned into a protest party. I have also accused Mr Mitsotakis of being blocked as a reformer, but on the substance of the matter he proposes no substantial reform. It does not dare to propose any fundamental reform. And of course I accused Mr Mitsotakis of constantly saying, in an abusive manner, not in everything that his resignation voted on those critical days of July and August. Because the agreement that we are applying today and closing this cycle - and it was our choice that the implementing laws of this agreement should be ahead of us - is the agreement you have voted on. However, from being in a strategic deadlock until being led to movements of extreme political surrealism, there is a difference. Last Tuesday I woke up this morning and read the papers. And I read the approved newspaper “Kathimerini”, a conservative party newspaper, which does not support SYRIZA, entitled “Two “no” and two “yes” from New Democracy.” And I'm saying what exactly does he want to say? He will vote against indirect taxes and cuts, will vote in favour of the new fund and red loans New Democracy, he said, "Kathimerini".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u652	And because it's written "KATHMERINI"? He fell out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u653	I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u654	Quiet, please! Don't react at all. We're still at the beginning of the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u655	We have heard Mr Mitsotakis very carefully. I would ask you to do the same. It's a sign of political culture. What did he do, ladies and gentlemen? What's going on? What exactly happened? Did the medical paper not have a proper report? Did that happen? The next day we have seen a statement by the former Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, who, among other things, has accused me and SYRIZA of actually devising the line. Because in this statement - the others are well-known, what it accuses us of - it has been mentioned in this fund in terms of particularly disgraceful. She actually denounced the new fund, which allowed Mr Mitsotakis very little room to follow the initial thoughts, which the approved newspaper rightly mentioned last Tuesday in her report. Some people talked about Mr. Samara's nerve. After plundering the country's GDP and bringing measures of tens of billions of euros, it is now coming to give a line to Mr Mitsotakis for what he will do in relation to what he will vote on and what he will not vote on. Some people talked about Mr. Mitsotakis' cowardice. I will say that something worse is happening: it is the combination of courage and cowardice. And that comes from your speech today, Mr Mitsotakis. You have devoted the first half of your speech, and a little more of it, to the known insults. And what you did not say today: 'false', 'unscrupulous','relevant', everything. Of course, I must say that you have done so very successfully, because you have enthusiasticed the audience of the Officerial Opposition. However, I must tell you that in the other half of your speech, in which you tried to give a position of counter-proposal, you have not been successful at all, because you have not once been applauded by the chairs of counter-population. But I would like to congratulate you, because today in the Greek Parliament and the Greek people, you have given the magic solution that we all expected of getting out of the crisis. And what is this magical solution? To have, he says, five years 2% instead of 3.5% surplus and 4% growth. Where have you been so long, Mr Mitsotakis, and you have not told us that this is the solution, we should also know that the solution is lower surpluses and higher growth? That's an excellent suggestion. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Where have we had you for so long? So why didn't your governments, Mr. Mitsotakis, which you participated in, succeeded in this? Because you, instead of 2%, signed and committed 4.5% surpluses for many years and instead of growth...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u656	Instead of growth?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u657	...you have brought about 25% recession, 25% destruction of national wealth, and you dare and you speak. It was 25%. Do you want me to remind you? In 2009 - it wasn't you, it was the Papandreou government - the recession was 4.4%. In 2010, 5.4% of the recession. In 2011, when Mr. Samaras turned and from an antimonetary point of view, he became a memorial to the Papademos government, in 8.9% the recession. In 2012, New Democracy - PASOK government elected 6.6% the recession. In 2013, at 3.9% the recession.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u658	Below?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u659	Where's growth? Why didn't you bring them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u660	Please! Be quiet! Be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u661	You're being disturbed by numbers, because the numbers are telling the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u662	All right, the gentleman's gonna walk away on his own. But you are here, and please do not interrupt, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u663	You spoke about 2014-2015. So I'll tell you, for 2014... Well, don't look up. It's okay. This is happening. We don't have to interrupt the meeting. It's happened before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u664	Stop that euphoria.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u665	Besides, I think that when you don't let a speaker speak, you give the trigger to those who watch us scream. So you're talking about 4% growth, which you will bring magically, when all the years you have ruled shrink the country's Gross Domestic Product by twenty-five points. And you are constantly talking about 2014, which you have certainly managed to achieve a balance. And in 2015, when you blame us, it was 0.2%. There was no recession. And in 2016 we are now in progress, all the forecasts say that the country has a very significant chance of closing in 2016 - and this will appear in April of the results of EUROSTAT - at a positive rate of growth. Let's go down. Unemployment. When the country was placed on the memorials, Mr Mitsotakis - and I really want to make this point, because some of you spoke about the lifting of national sovereignty, a heavy word - you forget that this withdrawal of sovereignty was imposed on the country when it was decided, and indeed without asking the Greek people, to submit to the first memorandum and to policies, which were plundering the media and dismantling social cohesion and policies that increased unemployment from 9.6% in 2009, to 27.5% that we received in 2015. So where have you been, Mr. Mitsotakis, all these years? Who's been running the place all these years? Who are you mocking that you have reform proposals and that you are the reformer, who, suddenly and magically, did everything you didn't do while you were running, loyally implementing everything that the lenders told us, even though they admit it was wrong then, will you now? The twenty-five points of recession will be made by you, with the reforms you have. And why don't you tell us these reforms? Are they IMF-type reforms? But you told us again, once again, Mr. Shoeble's firm position, that the problem is not the debt. The problem with negotiation, Mr Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are not negotiating with one, but with many, and that in this context, in this mosaic, we have on the one hand the International Monetary Fund to ask for tough, very hard, reforms and additional measures, but at the same time say that Greece needs debt write-off and on the other we have European partners saying that it is too much the measures that the IMF is asking for, more flexibility, the reforms that have been made in Greece are sufficient, but we cannot give debt write-offs. That is the problem with negotiation. The problem with you, do you know what it is? That you match the worst of the lenders' seats. You want tough reforms, but you don't want a debt. You're with the IMF in the tough reforms and with Mr. Shoeble on the debt issue. But at least in your speech, Mr Mitsotakis, you told us that these terrible ideas you have, which will eject the economy and go to 4% of growth, and these great ideas you have to exchange with the partners, in order to make the surplus of 3.5% -4.5% you signed - to become 2%, will apply them in the five-year period 2017-2021, that is, since 2017. What happened, Mr. Mitsotakis? Shouldn't we leave yet? Should we wait until 2017? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Of course I heard Mr. Stopatis from this step, Mr. Samaras' close associate, saying that elections will take place in spring 2017. "Elections now. Leave immediately’ took place ‘Spring 2017’. Thank you very much for giving us another year, but I will tell you something. The left parentheses are now over and will be over. Elections will take place in September 2019, whether you like it or not. And you will also lose these as long as you insist on a policy of celebrating and acting from the extremists to your party and from the truce. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But allow me, on this point, ladies and gentlemen, to refresh some people's memory in this Chamber, because there is indeed a matter of memory. They forget not what has happened over the last forty years, but only a few months ago they forget what happened. So I will remind you, gentlemen, of the counterpopulation, two events that you insist to diligently remove from your memory. The first happened in July and August 2015 in this Chamber, at difficult times, was the adoption of the agreement that we reached with lenders, an agreement that you of the New Democracy and of the PASOK and from the Potami, an agreement containing specific commitments, specialising in measures and implementing laws. But at the same time, it also gave a prospect and negotiation for real measures to protect the most vulnerable, but also a prospect for the country to stand on its feet. For the first time it involved an explicit commitment, which now goes on to become a reality in the day after tomorrow, and which concerns the write-down of debt. And we fought, to give perspective, not to be anything the lenders ask us. But then I remember you repeatedly telling us, at those difficult times: 'Get in agreement and whatever it is, just as long as we stay in the euro.' That's what you were telling us. And I am impressed by your current attitude. Because what we are voting on today is absolutely in the context of the agreement last July. But rather your selective amnesia is deeper.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u666	You put Greece in forced management.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u667	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u668	The country entered a forced management regime.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u669	Mr. Javarra, please. What you're doing is unacceptable. We were all here then. We were here then, Mr. Javarra. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u670	The dialogue is alive. It's always nice to have vacations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u671	It's all right, Mr. President. So your selective amnesia, Mr Javarra, is deeper, since you forget - and you are constantly doing so - and the reason why, after this agreement, you have been back on the standpoints of counter-population. You are constantly forgetting, but constantly, and you want to remove from your memory this fact, that there was elections not only in January 2015, but also in September 2015, after the agreement of July, which you voted on. And we went to elections because it was our duty to put our choice in the Greek people's crisis on the basis of this agreement that we reached with the partners. And we went to elections, with the agreement on the table openly and frankly, for the battle we have fought for, for what we have managed to win, but also for what we have had to compromise. We did not, in fact, manage to achieve everything we wanted, at the expense of an unfavorable correlation in Europe. However, there was little to do and the Greek people trusted us again in the new circumstances. You forget that. You are constantly struggling to take off the Greek people ignorant, cheated, stupid. The idea is that the people told us in September that we had 'and difficulties to bear does not exist, as long as those who destroyed the country don't come back.' That doesn't fit in your mind. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And you forsake us! What exactly do you give up on us? Where do we go exactly the way the September agreement has defined, and do we not forget it at all, unlike you who do not want to remember it? The facts, ladies and gentlemen, are clear. They do not need interpretations or distortions. It is true that we have managed to cancel many of the destructive commitments made by the governments of Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos, which constituted the framework of the fifth evaluation, which has never been closed and which was before us when we took over the country's governance in January 2015. And these commitments seem to you to forget them, the mass redundancies in the private sector, the lockout, the redundancies and the reductions in public wages, the zero deficit clause for supplementary pensions, which meant that they would disappear completely. Are these the reforms you want to trade to get 2% surplus?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u672	She's fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u673	That's fine. Oh, okay! If these are fine, Mr. Mitsotakis, what can I say? I think the Greek people will judge us. But, above all, you also forget the objectives of the previous programme, the objectives and the primary surpluses, since you referred to a stable 2%, the primary surpluses that condemned the country and the citizens in an ruthless austerity, the objectives that we were able to revise in the context of the new agreement. And what we've achieved isn't words, it's measurable. With our efforts we managed to stay in the real economy and in the pockets of Greek taxpayers for the next three years. Trust me. There is no need for anyone to have excellent economic knowledge to testify to that. It only needs to compare the actual sums, since you have become empathetic to the lower surpluses today, with those corresponding to the surplus targets before and after June 2015. So I'll remind you. For 2015 you were committed to a surplus of 3.5%. We did it-0.25%. We did +0.7%. The savings from the targets are EUR 5.8 billion for 2015. For 2016 you were committed to a surplus of 4.5%. We got 0.75%. Savings of EUR 6.7 billion. For 2017 you were committed to 4.5%. We're for 1.75%. Saving 5.4 billion. And finally, for 2018 you were committed to 4.2% and we were committed to 3.5%. Saving 700m euros. Well, it looks like you're not going well. But from courage, there's an excess. You say that the government is taxing, instead of cutting costs, implying that a New Democracy government would only choose the latter, not to tax it, but to cut costs. But let's see, to understand and those who are watching us today, what you mean by saying cuts in expenditure and what commitments you had, what measures you would take if you stayed in the governance of January 2015, and there was no political change. First of all, only by diverging the surplus target for 2014, you have fallen out of EUR 2 billion. You should cover that objective. Measures amounting to also EUR 2 billion should also need to be taken to meet the surplus target for 2015 and EUR 3.7 billion to catch the 2016 target. Total measures 7.7 billion, only for two years - notice - 2015-2016! Tell me, really, how would you cover up that void? Watch the difference. You are accusing us here of a storm of EUR 1.8 billion which we are actually burdening with taxes. You had in two years 7.7 billion. How would you bring them? Not with taxes? Cutting costs? What would you do exactly? Would you cut half the public wages and pensions? Would you close schools and hospitals? What would you do? You haven't given us any answers. I fear that the reforms with which you say that you will change them and when you are constantly focusing on expenditure, that is what they imply. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that not only costs would be cut. And wages and pensions would be cut and redundancies would be made, but also new taxes would be imposed. Because, otherwise, 7.7 billion won't come out. So we must stop this debate all the time about an unprecedented tax storm that the place did not see, when we implement an agreement that you voted and we are in the final straight for 2016, 2017, 2018, for the three-year period of 5.4 billion, applying 1% of the insurance, 1% of the income tax and another 1% of the taxes, when the previous governments had brought total measures of 93 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u674	Next time you said 63 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u675	You're not listening to me carefully, Mr. Stakoura. You must be more careful. Take out pencil and paper and measure it. That is precisely the conclusion which one can understand about your attitude: expenditure cuts and taxes. And, unfortunately, this is the intersection of the most extreme positions of the lenders. A few days ago, Mr Mitsotakis, I listened to you in your interview with the ERT, not much or much, to say that you are not opposed to the financial correction mechanism, because it was a measure that existed from the past. Today, you have recorded your vertical opposition - I don't know, perhaps because you are aware of the negotiation. This came alternatively to the requirement of the International Monetary Fund, which you believed will be imposed and we will not be able to achieve a victory in the negotiation, in addition to 2% of GDP, i.e. 3.6 billion. And you must be very sad that we have succeeded and achieved this victory, in an alliance with the European partners, in negotiating against the International Monetary Fund. The position of the former spokesman for your party, Mrs Asmakopoulou, who spoke about the scandalous favor of Europeans towards the SYRIZA - ANEL Government last week is not explained. Only I would like to point out to you, Mr Mitsotakis, that this is where we are talking about Greece and you are sad that we have managed to prevent the additional 3.6 billion euros! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] In order to remember, however, ladies and gentlemen, what exactly we asked the Greek people to order in September 2015. We were instructed to implement an agreement providing for a mild fiscal adjustment of 3% of GDP by 2018. A few days ago measures were adopted for insurance and taxation, which was 2% of GDP. In fact, they were voted on, while in those days the opposition said that with what we are bringing to Parliament we are doing unilateral actions and we are opening negotiations to the ground. In the insurance sector, we have moved on to a reform based on fair sharing of burdens and on the sustainability of the system, a system that had emerged from the rails. Our aim is to protect the weak, the low-pensionists and, of course, our main line, the red line, the protection of the main pensions, while at the same time removing burdens where a lot is accumulated, to the free traders, by removing burdens from young people now entering the professional career. We have maintained pensions at their nominal rate for 92% of the beneficiaries, that is to say, for two million thousand fellow citizens, who have seen in recent years - not one, not two, not three - eleven times lower their pensions. In taxation, too, we have moved to the same logic, little burdens and reductions in lower incomes, higher in the higher incomes. There is no doubt about it, the measures that we are discussing today - the additional 1% - are not pleasant measures, because the citizens of this country have already given much. But it is perhaps the first time that these sacrifices are so visible that they will give another perspective. So we have chosen in this multi-brand plan to divide costs through a wide grid of tax interventions. However, it is worth mentioning alternatives submitted at the negotiating table, because the increase for 1% of the maximum VAT rate - from 23% to 24% - is obviously a negative development. The counter-proposal from partners and lenders, however, at the table was an increase in the rate for energy, electricity and water from 13% to 23%. You realise that this would be a very painful development, which we avoided. There was a demand to remove the protection of first homes for those with red loans. It was difficult, indeed, to negotiate. We have managed to maintain the protection of the first home and to reach a credible plan for the management of non-performing loans. We have, in fact, created a regulatory framework for the Red Bank market, which is perhaps the strictest in Europe, and we are thus protecting the borrowers of low and medium-scale debt. There was also the requirement in the negotiations to sell IPTO. We managed to prevent it. We have therefore taken up a number of key issues on the negotiating agenda. The resulting charges are lower costs and are allocated to several different categories than to the original creditors' proposals for equal-efficiency measures. It is therefore important - possibly communication - that almost most of the Members of the New Democracy who went up to the Step have listed the tax burdens. There could therefore not be these charges and there would be a burden, as you have done all the previous period, to be the horizontal reduction in pensions or salaries. Or it should be HISHA. To be 2.6 billion, not 1.8 billion. But you blame us for coming and increasing him. HNVIA was 2.65 billion, 2.65 billion today. How do we raise him? What you are accusing us of is that we have made an effort to redistribute burdens in order to benefit the weakest. 92% of the owners will be asked to pay the same amount in many cases. Your agony is about 8%. All our logic is that the burdens should be distributed in such a way that it is fairer to all those who can withstand, alleviate those who can no longer stand. However, the very campaign of falsehood and misinformation has also unleashed the new fund for the exploitation of public property. It's still been amazing things have been heard here. Let me say a few points to put things in place. Point 1: The Fund is based in Greece and is subject to Greek law. You will tell me: 'That's what was missing!' But you know very well that this was the demand of lenders on that critical day and night in Brussels on 14 July. The requirement was that Luxembourg should have its seat and be in foreign administration. Secondly, the government has control over the fund. There's control over the House. The Fund's strategic plan will be approved by the Minister of Finance. Thirdly, because you, gentlemen, have linked the term 'evaluation' to 'export', does not mean that the same applies to us. Nor of course does it automatically mean selling.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u676	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u677	There are several ways of exploiting parts of the public property and creating new values for the benefit of the Greek economy. Fourth point: From the fund's revenue 50% will go to investment and growth and 50% to debt. Please note, however, that only as far as the debt is concerned, resulting from the obligations of the current loan contract, signed in the summer of 2015, not of the accumulated debt. Fifth point: there will be no redundancies in the EEKOs that will come under the fund and, of course, all the employees retain the status quo they have up to now. And the last comment concerns what was heard yesterday about a possible confiscation of the fund's share, namely the confiscation of public property. If it is not a mistake, it is a conscious lie and a slander, since it is expressly laid down in the law that the fund is a special purpose and that is why its share is out of transaction. It is, in other words, intransigent and irresponsible. And if you want, own experience of how much has been won in this tough battle, I will not allow you to speak here in terms of so heavy, treason, of lifting sovereignty. Let me tell you this: I wish we had the opportunity of having everything at the present time in the WIDD to go through this fund. Because this fund does not sell - and even at low prices - but also has the ability to produce long-term values, to create cash flows, half of which will go for the debt and the other half will be investment in the real economy, contrary to what is happening with the HICP, which 100% of the revenue from privatisation goes to the "black hole" of the debt. That was your decision. I think you've got a short memory here too, because you're the inspiring of HICP. And, if you remember, you had attempted by an act of legislation, please! - to pass to the TIADE the whole TEKO, PPC, EKIDAP, the infrastructure, to be sold, not to be exploited and fortunately stopped by the Council of State. Or have you forgotten about the twenty-eight real estate scandal, Mr Mitsotakis, the twenty-eight "digits" of the public, sold at degrading prices, scandalously, under their commercial value? That is not what I say, it says the conclusion of the prosecutor who prosecuted criminal prosecution, and then the board of directors of the HIAD and the expert board. And, to complete this big investment, you forced the State to lease these properties for twenty years, which it sold at a degrading price, at a high price and at the maintenance cost to the Greek State. And you are now talking about treason and the lifting of sovereignty! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] At the end of the 20th century, you know very well that we will have to buy these properties at that time, which will be higher, because they are real estates on which the national economy and national security depend. You dare, then, to give up on us for a sale! I will not say anything else, but I would like to remind you of a few things, because, if I am not mistaken, Mrs Bakoyannis yesterday spoke with very serious designations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u678	Heavy ones?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u679	Severely, you have spoken of the lifting of sovereignty. I would therefore like to remind Mrs Bakoyannis what she said in 2011 as President at the time of the Democratic Alliance in an interview with SKAI. It put forward three proposals for the use of public property. First proposal, to establish an independent service for the management of public property and segregation. The second proposal is to be attributed to the operator the value of the property resulting from the census of public property. Third proposal, from the revenues, 50% go to cover the Troika's loans and the remaining 50% to cover development needs and the repayment of earlier loans.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u680	You came to my words, that is!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u681	Mrs. Bakoyannis, when you proposed it, they were proposals that were serious. Now, it's an abrogation of sovereignty. I'm so sorry for your duplicity, for your double face.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u682	Was he telling anyone to give it to strangers?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u683	Please don't interfere and don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u684	Mr President, I was not saying anything about foreigners being given.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u685	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u686	Ladies and gentlemen, today I think a circle is closed, a circle difficult for the country. We are taking a final step towards completing the first evaluation, which will mean a new creative era for Greece, a time when it will also have its difficulties, but it will also have prospects. Tonight, European leaders get a message, the message that Greece keeps its promises. He shall assume responsibility for it. On the other hand, the responsibility arising from the joint agreement remains to be assumed tomorrow. And I believe that this will be done, that responsibility will be assumed. Because the time has come for our country to become the leading of positive developments, producer of positive news. It is good news that the Greek debt issue for the first time is being discussed with due attention to the European and international institutions, a subject on which we are putting forward proposals, we hear proposals, we exchange views and I think it is time to make substantial political decisions. But you know that, in order to take the necessary decisions on debt settlement, Greece must first of all not be blinded, understood by the Greek state, in other words, the real dimension of the problem and thus give the battle for this most important issue. And I want to explain. A few days ago - I think in your second language in the debate on insurance - Mr Mitsotakis, you said something first. You said that the responsibility for the debt evacuation was the hard negotiation that SYRIZA and ANEL made. Your debt has risen from 124% to over 170% and you go out and say that we are responsible for the debt! However, what evidence and assessments have you all invoked publicly the previous period that Greece's debt is viable? I want to present in the minutes an analysis of the viability of the Greek debt of the International Monetary Fund since 2012. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above tables, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So what does the International Monetary Fund say in its 2012 report when Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos said that debt is sustainable? The International Monetary Fund said that, in order to reach 100% GDP levels in 2030, the Greek economy would have to respect a basic rule: primary surpluses of 4.5% from 2015 to 2030, which after 2030 would fall to 3.5%, which we have won since 2018. On the basis of such estimates, you said then that debt is sustainable, because for almost two decades Mr Samaras believed that Greece could achieve a primary surplus of 4.5%. Now, of course, you came and told us that you changed your mind. And, if I'm not mistaken, you must have changed it because you see that the climate changes. The day before yesterday, Mr Stournaras, the Governor of the Bank of Greece, presented a study publicly and told us that we can claim no 4.5%, but 2%. And you told us, of course, that we can do that if we have 4% growth. But you've resuscitated the same force. You said it wasn't the debt. What can be concluded by a partner, an analyst in an international media, two days before the critical Eurogroup, which discusses the debt issue and which the whole confrontation will be reduced when he hears today's debate and the Chief of Police to say that debt is not the problem? Mr. Mitsotakis, you know what? I am not used to speaking unkindly to you, but in your speech you accused me, among others, of irrelevant. I want to take it back to you. What you say is claiming an award of irresponsibility and irresponsibility, I would say, and populism, I would add, that you so much oppose. Because today what did you tell us? You told us that we could claim a surplus of less than 4.5%, but the problem is not the debt. In other words, you're telling us that we can lower the surplus to 2% without having a debt relief. Ladies and gentlemen, we are fighting today for a substantial and realistic solution to the debt problem, for a substantial write-down in order to remove the burdens on the citizens, who will take on their backs the task of reconstructing the place in the coming years. And in this race Greece is not alone. The President of the Commission himself said two days ago that from the Greeks we have taken a lot and given them a few. And, Mr. Mitsotakis, Mr. Juncker is not a socialist. Because you accused me of wanting to make alliances only with the Social Democrats. It belongs to the European People's Party. He's not a socialist or leftist. Take an example, then, as Mr. Juncker said. Or is he also scandalously intolerant to SYRIZA? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the next few days neither the extension for a year which Mr Stamatis has given us nor the time when one or the other will remain in the governance of the country will be considered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u687	You liked the extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u688	Mr. Stopatis, please don't interfere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u689	In the next few days, what will be judged is the next many decades for Greece. I would therefore expect a more sensible attitude to this crucial issue from the Qualified Opposition, at least to go to this critical battle with a national line. You don't. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about the crucial issue, the great debate that has been held on the most infamous cut-off, the financial regulator, in any case, that automatic mechanism, which will ensure that we find ourselves within the framework of the primary surpluses that have been given by the agreement to which we have reached us. It is certain, according to the estimates of all European officials, that this cut will not be implemented. Apart from the cutter that will not be implemented, the reality is that we also need something that needs to be implemented immediately and is not a cut but a donor. We managed a primary surplus of 1% almost above the target in 2015. That's not a number. Primary surplus 1% means about 1.7 billion euros. On the basis of last July's agreement, for each euro over the primary surplus objective, the Greek Government has the possibility of giving 30 cents to the outstanding public debts, 30 cents to the debt and 40 to the social dividends, as it chooses. That is what the last July agreement says. In short, 1.7 billion primary surpluses above target in 2015 means that we will give 500 million to debt, 500 million to outstanding debts and 700 million in 2016, where we choose. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? It means we have the possibility of closing wounds and restoring injustices. So we have decided, and in the next few months, to establish a Social Solidarity Fund - apart from the cut-off - which means that in this fund we will put the surplus over the target for every year - this year immediately 700 million - but also every euro that comes in addition to the measures that have been calculated, to reach the objective of the agreement, for every euro that has not been taken into account, for the so-called 'non-measury measures'. This is, of course, about the revenue we will have from the competition on television licences. The measures have not been planned, and I think that will be enough millions. This is about the revenue we will have from the escaping of tax lists. Not provided. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] This concerns the revenue we will have from the smuggling of tobacco and fuels - not provided for - but also for the bill that we will be tabling in the next few months, which concerns undeclared incomes that have been transferred abroad. So we estimate that this social fund, which starts in '16 to 700 million, can have much more in the course of time. What are we gonna do with that money? We are not going to make a one-off provision. It wants a study of what we will do with them, so that the actions to which we are going are going to go are multiple impacts. In the first phase, however, we intend to finance the extension of the minimum guaranteed income programme to catch as much of the population as possible. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We intend to strengthen and maintain the programme to combat the humanitarian crisis. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We intend to strengthen social work programmes and combat unemployment, which already exist in many municipalities in the country. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Finally, we intend to restore some injustices. And, of course, it is an injustice that relates to the agreement's known reduction in income criteria, on the basis of which the CSCE is given. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] As you know, the delay in negotiating, not on our own responsibility, has led to a delay in voting on the insurance and has delayed the implementation of what was foreseen in the July agreement, namely the change in income criteria. There is, indeed, an amount of CSR, which has been reduced, which has been allocated since the beginning of the year. And it is a great injustice that we, who are committed that we will not even reduce the main pensions, ask these people to bring us back to our main pensions. Well, we won't. We're not doing it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u690	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u691	And I conclude by saying this: it is also a great injustice when the country is going through an unprecedented refugee crisis and has kept the country standing by the fact that men and women from the military, the police, the port, are twenty-four hours a week, seven days a week, that we deprive them of the right to be able to pay for special wages, in terms of the development of their rate, which corresponds to their payroll. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Mr. Kammens, the Minister of National Defence, pledged that up to 1-17, the proposal to freeze special wages, codes will be found from the Ministry of Defence and even said which codes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u692	Stop! Do we do the same now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u693	So I'm telling you, I'm sorry, because you consider these people your clientele. So let go of the clientele. There's no clientele. There are citizens who need protection and we will protect them. Leave your customers alone! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] For the other branches, which concern the other Ministries of Citizen Protection, for the men and women of the Coast Guard, the Port Authority, for the judges and diplomats of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this money is in the 700 million surpluses and we will not proceed with this amendment, in the implementation, rather, of the special salary freeze, because we know that these people, today, give them the most to keep the country up and return them, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u694	Please! Be quiet! There have been questions which have been raised for four days in this Chamber. Please, note them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u695	I shall conclude, Mr President. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, next week, is entering a new era. Debt decisions mark the beginning of a time of creation and advancement for the place. We have worked hard in the field of negotiation all the time. I want this critical moment not to get any further, but rather to address the majority Members. We did it ourselves, and we lifted a difficult cross. Today we close a long and difficult cycle. The next period will be a different period, not only for us, but also for the Greeks and Greeks. Today we make the last difficult decisions. To this day we have proved that we know how to lift the burden, keep the red lines and distribute the burdens fairly. Tomorrow, things will be more demanding, because, apart from sharing burdens fairly, we will be asked to allocate justly and what will be able to offer a socially sound development at the place. It won't grow with magical words, magic promises and fantasies. But development through very specific initiatives and efforts, which we have taken out all the previous period, is before the gates. That is not what EUROSTAT says, the European partners say. The International Monetary Fund also admits it. In the second half of 2016, we enter a positive sign. In 2017 we may not reach 4%, which Mr Mitsotakis promises, but we will have 3% growth. We're turning a page. History has already returned a page. The irreversible screams of the old political system will only be whispering in the ears of Greece tomorrow. The spring may end in a few days, but the real spring of the economy is ahead of us. In our hand is to be the real spring of our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u696	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u697	Mr. Mitsotakis, if you think that for two minutes you want something to place, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u698	Mr. President, just for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u699	You're very welcome. Wait a minute. Calm down, please. Don't give me any hints, please. Both the Prime Minister and the President of the Officerial Representation have typically exhausted the time of the first-time speech, the secondary speech, the tritology. It is obvious, however, that Mr Mitsotakis may not put a number of issues and answer the Prime Minister for three minutes. Please, Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u700	I will be brief, Mr President. Mr Tsipras, you accused me in your speech that in my first place I called you "unrelated and liar". I remember very well when you got up to respond to your dentistry, apart from the text, 15 days ago, and you used the phrase'self-deception'. And I wonder a Prime Minister who from this Step publicly acknowledges that he was deceived, what is it? Is he trained, Mr. Tsipras? Let's figure it out!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u701	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u702	As to the issue of lies, a Prime Minister who said he would tear the memorials, that he would give a thirteenth pension, what is it? Is it true, Mr. Tsipras? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Society knows very well that you lied to the citizens, that you misled them and that the constant invocation - notice - of your second electoral victory does not give you any sins for the damage that you did in the first half of 2015, because then, unfortunately, Mr Tsipras, the foundations for the economic path that we are following today have been laid. Indeed, Mr President of the House, the debate on the Committee of Inquiry on what happened in the first half of the year will you be planning it at some point? To find out exactly what happened and what the damage was, Mr. Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I have to go back to things I've told you before. However, you seem to have an intrinsic difficulty with numbers. So I have here the forecasts of the European Commission. The European Commission at the end of 2014 said: ‘Development for 2015 2.9% and 3.7%’. And what does the Commission say today? ‘Enhancement of 0,2%, recession of 0.3%.’. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This is not disputed, Mr Tsipras. As much as you do not understand numbers, you have cost the Greek economy EUR 21 billion, to loss of GDP, and that is above any question. You are always referring to the agreement, which we did vote on in August 2015, and we are proud that we, at a difficult time, held the country in Europe. But tell me, Mr Tsipras: Where exactly is the surplus, with a lifetime of 100 years, until 2115? Our bailouts will be there, and the superstate will be in life too. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Where exactly are all this reported? Where exactly does the agreement state that the Greek Parliament should not be accountable? Because there is no view of the House, there is only information. And decisions you know them very well. The decisive decisions, which are taken by a majority of 4/5, cannot be taken by the Greek Government alone and by the representatives of the fund. We also need foreigners' assent. So I wonder where all this relates to the agreement which we have voted on, or is the agreement referring to the cutter? Tell me, Mr. Tsipras, when did the cutter enter the public dialogue? Did it happen in the last two months? Did it happen after the intercepted conversation with the International Monetary Fund was leaked? Was there a problem of cutter before? The cutter is the price of your personal unreliableness! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because no one believes that the package of measures, which you bring, can pay off, so they imposed it upon you. Indeed, any government needs a cost control mechanism. And there was such a mechanism since 2014. Why wasn't it enough for strangers? We voted for him. Have you answered that? Why did they ask you for a special additional cutter? Because, very simply, Mr. Tsipras, no one believes you. Neither within Greece nor outside! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You mentioned the selective relationship you have with the International Monetary Fund. Here, indeed, I have to say that I am speechless. Because you've achieved something unique. The proposals from the Fund which are beneficial to national interests, namely more aggressive debt intervention and lower primary surpluses, do not discuss them and accept the cut. How did you do that, Mr. Tsipras? Really, if you answer me then, will you pursue a target of 2% for primary surpluses? We told you our position. What's your position? Can you do it? The answer is that you cannot do it because, unfortunately, you are no longer a trustworthy interlocutor. That is why, with your intervention on debt, you are committing the country to primary surpluses for fifteen years, which I tell you are simply not viable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u703	Mr President, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u704	You're welcome, Mr. President. The Prime Minister spoke fifty-five minutes. A remark on the figures and on the understanding of the object of the economy. What did you tell us today? That the measures, overall, which were taken between 2000 and 2014, were 90 billion. Yes, sir. What does your report say in the last budget that you have submitted? ‘In the period 2000-2014, the measures under the Economic Adjustment Programme reached 24.5% of GDP.’. Make a division. Do you know how much this is? It's just under 60 billion. You're not doing well with billions, Mr. Tsipras! I've told you many times. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Finally, what are billions? Stranges, don't you know how much the total measures are? One more thing about the policy mix. Really, uh...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u705	Quiet, please. Mr. Papadopoulos, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u706	...as you insist to comment on the statements made by the European officials, to comment on me, Mr. Tsipras...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u707	Mr. Papadopoulos, stop. Here you go, Mr. Mitsotakis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u708	Comment, Mr Tsipras, on the statement by the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Dombrovskis, who clearly said that the choice of the mix of taxes was your choice. Well, just comment on that, too. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course it was your choice! That's what we've been explaining to you for so long. It was your choice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u709	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u710	And your choice was to give up 150 million for civil servants when the economy can't handle it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u711	Mr. Theonas, don't answer for yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u712	It is your choice to create additional structures in public at all times. It is your choice to hire best friends and "lefters". Indeed, this mixture of politics is yours, but do you know what, Mr. Tsipras? We'll all pay the taxes, especially the weaker ones. And still Greek society has not understood the intensity of the tax storm, which is being voted on today. But wait, in two or three months, when September comes, October, things will be much different, much worse for your government. But that's not what I'm so interested in, Mr. Tsipras. Unfortunately, things will be much worse in the real economy. And since you mentioned our own policies and the relationship we had with the troika, I would like to remind you, Mr Tsipras, that we have made a series of tax reductions, we have reduced the solidarity levy, we have reduced VAT on the focus, we have reduced the excise duty on oil. When you do the same, come here and tell us. And we did it without the troika's approval. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And one last thing for Mr. Kammenos. Where is he? Oh, he's hidden there. I should have seen you. You mentioned, Mr Kammenos, in your latest aversion to how the New Democracy Members will feel when they see again the videos of the interventions they made during the debate when you have reached a good agreement on the country. How do you feel when you see your own videos that you were asking to fall into four and say all these incredible things, Mr. Kammenos, for which you never apologized?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u713	Good. There is no answer to that question. Mr. Prime Minister has the floor for as long as he needs. And, secondly, I say to both of us to collect time a little bit more is the minimum sensitivity of procedure to the rest of the six political leaders, who have not been given the floor, not only today, but at times after the completion of the process. Please respect it. Here, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u714	I will be very brief, Mr President. It seems that Mr Mitsotakis has not been convinced of all that I have tabled before, by your statements, about what alternative to the use of public assets, for the fact that you, Mrs Bakoyannis, had proposed for this fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u715	Mr President, now I have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u716	All right, Mrs. Bakoyannis, your brother will answer if necessary. Family case.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u717	No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u718	Let me finish. So you said once again that there is a major issue, because you say it is many years. What we decided that night was the years of life of this new fund, which will not divest, but will take advantage of properties and will have collateral in financial flows, not real estate, of 50 billion, to give the real economy 25 billion and 25 billion to debt. What we had agreed that night was to have a long life as the duration of the new loan, not of the old one, the new loans of the 2015 loan contract. There is a formal figure in the ninety-nine years, as far as I know. But let me tell you something, Mr. Mitsotakis. Having a long life of this fund is good for the public interest and I will explain why. When the time is short, what the market provides for, i.e. maximising the profit for the fund is divestment, because a long-term revenue, which is fixed, money from a fixed revenue over a period of time, is calculated by multiplying over the years of possible recovery and everyone realises that it is more beneficial to stay and not to be divested, than to be sold even at a cutting point in time in the period of crisis. But I don't want to get into the technical details. I want to tell you something, which is very essential. You say here that - and it is very serious when you say it in Parliament - the Greek state, the Parliament, which will essentially be an observer and which foreigners will actually decide on the future of the fund. Mr Mitsotakis, look, these positions create other kinds of combinations that fuel other political spaces, those political spaces that are emerging today in Europe, the reason for the extreme right. You spoke of lifting sovereignty, talking about betrayals. It's serious what you're saying. I say to you this: The clause that there will be no decision without our consent comes from the fact that this fund will have a five-member administration. In this five-member administration, three members will be our choice and two selection members on the other side.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u719	Stop, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u720	Yes, of course. Members will be...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u721	With an assortment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u722	What do you mean? You mean you've been selling for so many years because you wanted to? You did not have the consent of the partners for...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u723	The HIADED had Greek administration. We didn't ask them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u724	Mr. Voridis, Mr. Javarra, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u725	Have a seat, Mr. Voridis. Your line is this, the extremist line, about betrayal, and you know that the last time the reproach of the betrayal of the left was heard in this place we had bad ends as a place! And you're imposing this line on Mr. Mitsotakis. So don't shout.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u726	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u727	One cannot force the Greek side to do something that it does not want, having three out of five. No one can force the Greek side to do something that they do not want. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u728	Please! Mr. Javarra, Mr. Kiklia, stop interfering. Four days you've been detailed. Now, you're listening to them condensed. Please stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u729	In order to do this, as the lenders wish - and I close on this issue, so that I do not go far - on the question of the fund, two of the three sides of Greece will have to agree with him, which is a scientific fiction theory. However, the crucial point, ladies and gentlemen, is not that. The crucial point is that this fund will not be divested, but will take advantage of the cash. You have even dived out in a way that is clearly unfair and harmful to the Greek State until now, the twenty-eight properties of the Greek State by the GOI. We have had to date, because that is what the agreement was saying, to move on to what was stated in the agreement and the commitments you had made. From now on, however, we will produce values and cash flows of which will go to the real economy rather than to the debt bucket. I now come to the second point you raised. Mr Mitsotakis, you said that I am wrong, because it is not EUR 93 billion of the measures you have brought to the five-year-olds, but it is EUR 60 billion. I want to remind you of what he said from this Step - I do not have the text with me, we will look into it, I am absolutely sure of that - Mr Stournaras. You mistake the performance of the measures with the real austerity measures passed by the PASOK governments at first, PASOK - New Democracy below. EUR ninety-three billion, a yield of EUR sixty billion, which was one of the hardest budgetary adjustments imposed on a developing world country. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] You have spoken once again about a committee of inquiry. Don't you realize that your story no longer has a dragon? You don't understand that? You want a committee of inquiry, because it says we have destroyed the country, negotiating hard. Why was the country destroyed? You were talking about a recession of 7% and about a total failure of all targets. You kept telling us that we are out on the revenue side and that we will have a great deal of deficit. We had 0.2% and not 7% recession, almost, i.e. stagnation. And we caught and overdetermined the target of surplus a year, the hard and difficult of 2015 by 1% on the target. We got a 0.7% surplus when you guys brought us a 0.2% surplus. Is that how we destroyed the economy, Mr. Mitsotakis? And what was your counterproposal? To implement the EUR 7.7 billion measures for 2015-2016 provided for in the fifth evaluation you have never closed? You come here and compare not really the sizes of the Greek economy, its performances, but what would happen if the country would somehow close the fifth evaluation, namely, it brought these 7.7 billion euros into the two-year period, which you had the opportunity to do, and you did not, Mr Mitsotakis. Why didn't you? Who prevented you from doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u730	You're the ones who shot us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u731	Oh, did we stop you? Do you know when the fifth evaluation was? It was from July. Mr. Mitsotakis, I think we're addressing people with reason. The fifth evaluation didn't turn it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u732	Mostly memory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u733	Yes, and memory, Mrs. Bakoyannis. On the fifth evaluation you did not close it, because it involved too many tough measures, much harder measures than what we had to take after the compromise, which you could not have brought here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u734	Quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u735	You thought you'd get away with a mail you sent, which had nothing to do with what the lenders asked you to do. So we'd have growth. Finally, I want to refer to what you said about the financial corrigendum. But before that, I'll answer something else. You say that the Vice-President of the Commission, Dombrovoskis said this. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Okay, now, excuse me. Is that your point, that I don't remember his name exactly?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u736	Please, we know that you know very much Latvian. Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u737	Such mobility I've never seen on the stand of counterpopulation. So he said it was our choice of taxes. Indeed, Mr Mitsotakis, I said so in my speech. The creditors' proposal was to take value added tax, VAT on energy from 13% to 23% and water from 13% to 23%, which would create an unprecedented burden on every household. Instead, we made our choice and said that it would not increase from 13% to 23% electricity, PPC, but we would take VAT from 23% to 24%. I want to close with the budget cut, the financial corrector. I understand that you had put all your money in a roulette in black, in failure, in that the International Monetary Fund insists on these tough measures of EUR 3.6 billion. Because we all know that the agreement was speaking - and it speaks and we have an obligation to respect it - for a surplus of 3.5% in 2018. And the disagreement between the institutions was, if with these measures, the 5.4 billion, 1% plus 1%, we will get 3.5% surplus in 2018. The International Monetary Fund said about what you said a little while ago that we are not going to get it. And he said that we can catch 1.5% with these measures and insisted until the last minute that we vote not 3%, but 5%, i.e. bring another 3.6 billion euros to the vote. And of course you were used to what was happening in your period, that, when something asked for by the IMF, it was law. You did not foresee the fact that this time Greece will not be isolated. You did not foresee the fact that strong alliances across Europe and not just socialists, there will be to support the right request that the Greek people should not be imposed anymore. You were convinced that they would impose them on us and you were even beginning to prepare figurines, sewing costumes. Keep them, you'll need the suits. We won't fall. We will not lead the people to extra measures. No elections will be held, as you anticipated and requested. But I am afraid, Mr Mitsotakis, that you will be disproved once again and with regard to your desire to activate the financial regulator, the mechanism, the cutter. It will not be activated, Mr Mitsotakis, neither in 2017, nor in 2018, nor in 2019, because in 2018 the country will have a great deal of growth. We're going to another time. Of course, I imagine the other 'corrector' that changed you and said today 'don't ask for elections in the spring of 2017', he believes that the cut will be activated in 2017, which is why he says. Well, I assure you it won't. We reached a surplus of 0.7% in 2015, when we had two elections and a referendum and capital control. In 2016 we will exceed 0.5% and in 2017, when we have growth of 3%, far more than 1.75%. And then I fear, Mr Mitsotakis, that other cutters, political cutters, will be activated, which will also force you to say no 2017-2021, but 2018-2022, not 2018-2022, but 2019-2023. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So wait until 2019 and you will lose the election again if you continue with this tactic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u738	The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is closed: "Urgent provisions implementing the budgetary objectives and structural reforms agreement and other provisions" and their vote will be taken separately. Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made for a roll-call vote of New Democracy Members on the start of the bill and on Articles 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 58, 59, 60, 184, 185, 186, 186, 187, 188, 189, 191, 192, 194, 194, 196, 196, 198, 198, 199, 199, 201, 201, 202, 204, 205, 206, 207, 208, 209, 210, 211, 211, 212, 213, 214, 234, 234, 234, 235, 236 as well as the amendment with a general number of 449 and specific 93, the text of which is as follows: Change Page [[To enter page 556a]] [[To enter page 559a]] [[To enter page 560a]] [[To enter page 561a]] Change Page
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u739	I will also read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Christos Stakouras. Here you go. Mr. Costas Tsiaras. Here you go. Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos. Here you go. Mr. Dimitris Kyriazides. Here you go. Mr. Georgios Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Dimitris Stamatis. Here you go. Mr. Giannakis Stergios. Here you go. Mr. Christos Bukouros. Here you go. Mr. Athanasios Bouras. Here you go. Mr. Vassilis Yoyakas. Here you go. Mrs. Anna Karamanlis. Here. Mr. Manos Konsolas. Here you go. Mr. Apostle Vezuropoulos. Here you go. Mr. Savvas Anastasiades. Here you go. Mr Anastasios Publics. Here you go. Mr. Constantine Javaras. Here you go. Mr. Theodore Karaoglu. Here you go. Mr. George Stylus. Here you go. Mrs. Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou. Here. Mr. Constantine Karamanlis. Here you go. Mr. Christos Kelles. Here you go. Mrs. Lightning Arabaji. Here. Mrs. Nikki Kerameau. Here. Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis. Here you go. Mr. Constantine Vlassi. Here you go. Mr. Nottis Metatakis. Here you go. Mrs. Maria Antoniou. Here. Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for the roll-call vote of Members of the New Democracy. A request has also been made for a roll-call vote on Articles 1 to 43, 50, 52, 53, 54, 55, 58, 59, 60, 65, 66, 70, 72, 80, 105, 106, 142, 159, 184, 185, 186, 188, 191, 196, 199, 200, 204, 205, 230 and Amendments 435/79, 437/81 and 440/84, the text of which is as follows: Change Page Change Page)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u740	I will also read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Michaeliakos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Poppa Christos. Here you go. Mrs. Zaroulia Helen. Here. Mr. John Rabbit. Here you go. Mrs. Vlachos Salvation. Here. Mr. Ilioopoulos Panagiotis. Here you go. Mr. Cassidy Elias. Here you go. Mr. Panayotaros Elias. Here you go. Mr. Hajisavasavas Christos. Here you go. Mr. Germenis George. Here you go. Mr. Michos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Shahinides John. Here you go. Mr. Aivatidis John. Here you go. Mr. Gregos Antonios. Here you go. Mr. Barbarousis Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Kouzilos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Koukoutsis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Caracos Evangelos. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for the roll-call vote of Members of the Golden Dawn. A request has also been made for a roll-call vote of Members of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR at the beginning of the bill and on Articles 1, 44 to 50, 52 to 56, 58 to 61, 63, 65, 70, 184 to 205 and 233, of which the text is as follows: Change Page Change Page)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u741	I will also read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mrs. Fontaine. Here. Mr. Arvanitides Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Venizelos Evangelos. Here you go. Mr. Theocharopoulos Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Kegeroglu Vasiliou. Here you go. Mrs. Kefalidou Harula. Here. Mr. Koutsoukos John. Here you go. Mr. Kremastinos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Constantinople Odysseus. Here you go. Mr. Constantopoulos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Loverdos Andreas. Here you go. Mr. Maniotis John. Here you go. Mr. Papatheodoros Theodore. Here you go. Mr. Scandalidis Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Jelephus Michael. Here you go. Mrs. Christophilopoulou Friday. Here. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure to vote for a roll-call vote on the PASOK - DIMAR. Is there also a request for a roll-call vote by Members of the Communist Party of Greece at the beginning of the bill and on Articles 50, 52, 53, 55, 58, 59, 60, 65, 70 to 99, 106, 184 to 214, 215 to 230, 233 and 236, whose text reads as follows? Change Page Change Page)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u742	I will also read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Koutsoubas Dimitrios. Here you go. Mrs. Papapaiga Alexandra. Here. Mr. Bardale Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Giokas John. Here you go. Mr. Delis John. Here you go. Mrs. Canelle Liana. Here. Mr. Karathanasopoulos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Katsotis Christos. Here you go. Mr. Lambroulis George. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote of Members of the Communist Party of Greece. Do you accept to compress the roll-call votes in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u743	The House agreed. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u744	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. A roll-call vote will take place in principle and on Articles 1 to 56, 58 to 61, 63, 65, 66, 70 to 99, 105, 106, 142, 153, 159, 184 to 230, 233, 234, 236 and on Amendment Nos 449 and special 93, of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Emergency provisions implementing the Agreement on budgetary objectives and structural reforms and other provisions’. The principle, the articles and the amendment are said to be 'HUI'. The non-acceptance of the principle, the articles and the amendment say 'OH'. The voters say 'PARON'. Mrs Panagiota Dritchelis is called on the list by SYRIZA and Mr. Apostolos Besiropoulos from New Democracy. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, which makes their vote at first reading, articles and amendments to the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u745	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure are recorded in the Minutes. [[The letters referred to above are as follows:]] Change Page [[To enter pages 565-568]] Change Page
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u746	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters by Mr Spyridon - Adonidos Georgiadis and Mr Gregorios Psarianos have been sent to the Bureau and that we are told that they are absent from the vote and that they will inform us what they would vote on if they were present. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting but are not counted on the counting of votes. [[The letters referred to above are entered in the Minutes and are as follows:]] Change Page [[To enter pages 570-571]] Change Page
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u747	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u748	In the meantime, until the counting of votes is completed and the result of the vote is obtained, we will vote on the rest of the other articles and the amendment in order to get time. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u749	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u750	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u751	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u752	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u753	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u754	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u755	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u756	Article 62 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 64 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u757	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u758	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u759	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u760	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u761	Article 64 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 67 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u762	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u763	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u764	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u765	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u766	Article 67 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 68 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u767	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u768	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u769	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u770	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u771	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u772	Article 68 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 69 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u773	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u774	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u775	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u776	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u777	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u778	Article 69 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 100 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u779	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u780	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u781	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u782	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u783	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u784	Article 100 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 101 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u785	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u786	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u787	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u788	Article 101 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 102 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u789	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u790	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u791	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u792	Article 102 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 103 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u793	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u794	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u795	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u796	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u797	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u798	Article 103 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 104 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u799	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u800	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u801	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u802	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u803	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u804	Article 104 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 107 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u805	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u806	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u807	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u808	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u809	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u810	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u811	Article 107 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 108 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u812	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u813	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u814	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u815	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u816	Article 108 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Will Rule 109 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u817	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u818	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u819	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u820	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u821	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u822	Article 109 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Can Rule 110, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u823	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u824	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u825	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u826	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u827	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u828	Article 110 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Can Rule 111, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u829	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u830	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u831	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u832	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u833	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u834	Article 111 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 112 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u835	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u836	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u837	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u838	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u839	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u840	Article 112 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 113 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u841	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u842	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u843	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u844	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u845	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u846	Article 113 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 114 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u847	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u848	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u849	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u850	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u851	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u852	Article 114 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 115 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u853	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u854	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u855	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u856	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u857	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u858	Article 115 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 116 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u859	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u860	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u861	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u862	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u863	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u864	Article 116 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 117 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u865	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u866	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u867	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u868	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u869	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u870	Article 117 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 118 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u871	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u872	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u873	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u874	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u875	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u876	Article 118 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 119 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u877	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u878	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u879	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u880	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u881	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u882	Article 119 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 120 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u883	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u884	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u885	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u886	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u887	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u888	Article 120 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 121 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u889	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u890	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u891	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u892	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u893	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u894	Article 121 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 122 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u895	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u896	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u897	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u898	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u899	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u900	Article 122 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 123 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u901	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u902	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u903	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u904	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u905	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u906	Article 123 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 124 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u907	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u908	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u909	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u910	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u911	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u912	Article 124 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 125 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u913	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u914	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u915	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u916	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u917	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u918	Article 125 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 126 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u919	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u920	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u921	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u922	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u923	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u924	Article 126 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 127 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u925	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u926	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u927	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u928	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u929	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u930	Article 127 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 128 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u931	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u932	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u933	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u934	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u935	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u936	Article 128 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 129 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u937	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u938	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u939	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u940	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u941	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u942	Article 129 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 130 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u943	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u944	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u945	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u946	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u947	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u948	Article 130 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 131 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u949	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u950	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u951	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u952	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u953	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u954	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u955	Article 131 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 132, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u956	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u957	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u958	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u959	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u960	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u961	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u962	Article 132 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 133 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u963	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u964	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u965	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u966	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u967	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u968	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u969	Article 133 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 134 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u970	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u971	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u972	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u973	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u974	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u975	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u976	Article 134 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 135 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u977	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u978	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u979	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u980	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u981	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u982	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u983	Article 135 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 136 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u984	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u985	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u986	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u987	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u988	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u989	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u990	Article 136 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 137 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u991	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u992	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u993	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u994	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u995	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u996	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u997	Article 137 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 138 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u998	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u999	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1000	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1001	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1002	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1003	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1004	Article 138 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 139 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1005	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1006	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1007	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1008	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1009	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1010	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1011	Article 139 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 140 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1012	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1013	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1014	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1015	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1016	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1017	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1018	Article 140 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 141, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1019	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1020	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1021	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1022	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1023	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1024	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1025	Article 141 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 143, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1026	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1027	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1028	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1029	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1030	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1031	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1032	Article 143 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 144 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1033	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1034	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1035	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1036	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1037	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1038	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1039	Article 144 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 145 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1040	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1041	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1042	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1043	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1044	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1045	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1046	Article 145 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 146 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1047	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1048	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1049	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1050	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1051	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1052	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1053	Article 146 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 147 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1054	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1055	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1056	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1057	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1058	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1059	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1060	Article 147 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 148 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1061	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1062	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1063	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1064	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1065	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1066	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1067	Article 148 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 149 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1068	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1069	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1070	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1071	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1072	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1073	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1074	Article 149 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 150 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1075	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1076	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1077	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1078	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1079	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1080	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1081	Article 150 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 151 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1082	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1083	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1084	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1085	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1086	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1087	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1088	Article 151 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 152 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1089	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1090	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1091	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1092	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1093	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1094	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1095	Article 152 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 154 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1096	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1097	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1098	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1099	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1100	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1101	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1102	Article 154 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 155 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1103	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1104	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1105	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1106	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1107	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1108	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1109	Article 155 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 156 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1110	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1111	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1112	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1113	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1114	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1115	Article 156 was therefore accepted as such by a majority. Will Rule 157 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1116	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1117	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1118	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1119	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1120	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1121	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1122	Article 157 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 158 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1123	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1124	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1125	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1126	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1127	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1128	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1129	Article 158 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 170 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1130	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1131	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1132	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1133	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1134	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1135	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1136	Article 160 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 161 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1137	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1138	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1139	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1140	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1141	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1142	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1143	Article 161 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 162 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1144	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1145	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1146	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1147	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1148	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1149	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1150	Article 162 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 163, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1151	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1152	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1153	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1154	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1155	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1156	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1157	Article 163 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 164, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1158	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1159	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1160	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1161	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1162	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1163	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1164	Article 164 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 165 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1165	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1166	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1167	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1168	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1169	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1170	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1171	Article 165 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 166 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1172	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1173	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1174	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1175	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1176	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1177	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1178	Article 166 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 167 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1179	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1180	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1181	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1182	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1183	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1184	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1185	Article 167 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 168 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1186	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1187	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1188	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1189	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1190	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1191	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1192	Article 168 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 169 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1193	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1194	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1195	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1196	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1197	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1198	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1199	Article 169 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 170 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1200	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1201	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1202	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1203	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1204	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1205	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1206	Article 170 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 171 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1207	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1208	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1209	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1210	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1211	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1212	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1213	Article 171 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 172 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1214	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1215	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1216	Article 172 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 173 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1217	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1218	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1219	Article 173 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 174 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1220	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1221	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1222	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1223	Article 174 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 175 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1224	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1225	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1226	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1227	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1228	Article 175 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 176 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1229	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1230	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1231	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1232	Article 176 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 177 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1233	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1234	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1235	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1236	Article 177 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 178 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1237	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1238	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1239	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1240	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1241	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1242	Article 178 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 179 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1243	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1244	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1246	Article 179 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 180 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1247	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1248	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1249	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1250	Article 180 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can Rule 181, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1251	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1252	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1254	Article 181 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 182 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1255	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1256	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1258	Article 182 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 183 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1259	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1260	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1261	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1262	Article 183 was therefore accepted as majority. Articles 184 to 230 have been put to a roll-call vote. Will Rule 231 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1263	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1264	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1265	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1266	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1267	Article 231 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 232 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1268	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1269	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1270	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1271	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1272	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1273	Article 232 was therefore accepted as a majority. Articles 233 and 234 have been put to a roll-call vote. Will Rule 235 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1274	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1275	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1276	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1277	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1278	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1279	Article 235 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 236 has been put into roll-call vote. Will Rule 237 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1280	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1281	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1282	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1283	Article 237 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 453 and a specialist of 213?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1284	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1285	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1286	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1287	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1288	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 453 and a special 13 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1289	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the vote. A total of 298 Members voted. In favour of the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against the start of the bill, i.e. 'NO', 145 MPs voted. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Urgent provisions for the implementation of the budgetary objectives and structural reforms and other provisions" was accepted in principle by a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 1. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 237 Members voted. Under Rule 61 of the Rules of Procedure, 61 Members voted against. Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 2. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 3. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 4. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 5. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 6. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 227 Members voted. Against this article, 71 Members voted against. Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 7. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 8. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 227 Members voted. Against this article, 71 Members voted against. Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 9. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 227 Members voted. Against this article, 71 Members voted against. Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 10. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 227 Members voted. Against this article, 71 Members voted against. Article 10 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 11. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 227 Members voted. Against this article, 71 Members voted against. Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 12. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 13. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 14 has been passed by Members in total. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 227 Members voted. Against this article, 71 Members voted against. Article 14 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 15. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 16 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 16 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 17 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 18. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 19. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 19 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 20 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 21. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 22. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 22 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 23. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 24. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 227 Members voted. Against this article, 71 Members voted against. Article 24 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 25. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 227 Members voted. Against this article, 71 Members voted against. Article 25 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 26. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 227 Members voted. Against this article, 71 Members voted against. Article 26 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 27. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 227 Members voted. Against this article, 71 Members voted against. Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 28. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 227 Members voted. Against this article, 71 Members voted against. Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 29. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 227 Members voted. Against this article, 71 Members voted against. Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 30 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 227 Members voted. Against this article, 71 Members voted against. Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 31 passed a total of 298 Members In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 227 Members voted. Against this article, 71 Members voted against. Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 32 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 33 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 33 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 34 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 35 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 36 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 37 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 38 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 39 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 40 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 41 has passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 41 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 42 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 43. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 228 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 44 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Under Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure, 130 Members voted against. 'PARON' 15 MPs voted. Article 44 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 45 has passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Under Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure, 130 Members voted against. 'PARON' 15 MPs voted. Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 46 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Under Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure, 130 Members voted against. 'PARON' 15 MPs voted. Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 47 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Under Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure, 130 Members voted against. 'PARON' 15 MPs voted. Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 48 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Under Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure, 130 Members voted against. 'PARON' 15 MPs voted. Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 49. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 50 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Article 51 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 51 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 52. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 53. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 53 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 54 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 55 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 55 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 56. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 236 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 47 Members voted. 'PARON' 15 MPs voted. Article 56 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 58 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 59 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 60 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 60 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 61 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 61 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 63 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 63 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 65. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 163 MPs. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', they voted 135 Members. Article 65 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 66 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 236 Members voted. Under Rule 52 of the Rules of Procedure, 52 Members were voted against. 'PARON' were voted 10 MPs. Article 66 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 70. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 70 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 71 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 71 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 72. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 72 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 73. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 73 was therefore accepted as being majority. Rule 74 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 74 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 75 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 75 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 76 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 76 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Rule 77. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 77 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 78 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 78 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 79 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 79 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 80 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 80 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 81 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 81 was therefore accepted as majority. Article 82 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 82 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 83 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 83 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 84. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 84 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 85 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 85 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 86. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 86 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 87. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 87 has therefore been accepted as majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 88. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 88 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 89. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 89 has therefore been accepted as majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 90. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 90 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 91. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 91 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 92. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 92 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 93. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 93 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 94 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 94 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 95. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 95 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 96. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 96 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 97. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 97 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 98. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 98 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 99 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 99 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 105 has passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 162 Members. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 136 Members voted. Article 105 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 106 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 106 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 142 has passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 142 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 289 Members voted on Article 153. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 136 Members voted. "PARON" 9 MPs voted. Article 153 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 159. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 159 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 184 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 184 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 185. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 185 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 186. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 186 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 187. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 187 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 188. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 188 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 189. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 189 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 190. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 190 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 191. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 191 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 192. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 192 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 193. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 193 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 194. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 194 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 195. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 195 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 196. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 196 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 197. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 197 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 198. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 198 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 199. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 199 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 200 has adopted a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 200 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 201 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 201 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 202 has passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 202 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 203 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 203 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 204 has passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 204 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 205 has passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 205 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 206. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 206 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 207 has passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 207 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 208 has passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 208 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 209 has passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 209 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 210 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 210 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 211. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 211 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 212. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 212 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 213 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 213 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 214 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 214 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 215. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 251 Members voted. Against the article, i.e. 'Notice', 36 Members voted. "PARON" 11 MPs voted. Article 215 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 216 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 251 Members voted. Against the article, i.e. 'Notice', 36 Members voted. "PARON" 11 MPs voted. Article 216 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 217 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 236 Members voted. Against this article, 51 Members voted against. "PARON" 11 MPs voted. Article 217 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 218 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 236 Members voted. Against this article, 51 Members voted against. "PARON" 11 MPs voted. Article 218 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 219 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 236 Members voted. Against this article, 51 Members voted against. "PARON" 11 MPs voted. Article 219 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 220 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 236 Members voted. Against this article, 51 Members voted against. "PARON" 11 MPs voted. Article 220 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 221 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 236 Members voted. Against this article, 51 Members voted against. "PARON" 11 MPs voted. Article 221 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 222. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 236 Members voted. Against this article, 51 Members voted against. "PARON" 11 MPs voted. Article 222 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 223 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 236 Members voted. Against this article, 51 Members voted against. "PARON" 11 MPs voted. Article 223 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 224 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 236 Members voted. Against this article, 51 Members voted against. "PARON" 11 MPs voted. Article 224 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 298 Members voted on Article 225. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 236 Members voted. Against this article, 51 Members voted against. "PARON" 11 MPs voted. Article 225 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 226 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 236 Members voted. Against this article, 51 Members voted against. "PARON" 11 MPs voted. Article 226 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 227 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 236 Members voted. Against this article, 51 Members voted against. "PARON" 11 MPs voted. Article 227 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 228 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 236 Members voted. Against this article, 51 Members voted against. "PARON" 11 MPs voted. Article 228 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 229 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 236 Members voted. Against this article, 51 Members voted against. "PARON" 11 MPs voted. Article 229 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 230 has passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 236 Members voted. Against this article, 51 Members voted against. "PARON" 11 MPs voted. Article 230 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 233 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 146 Members. Article 233 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 234 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 234 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 236 passed a total of 298 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 145 Members. Article 236 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. The amendment with a general number of 449 and a special number 93 voted for a total of 298 Members. In addition to the amendment 'NAI', 153 Members voted. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he would be prepared to give us an answer to this question. Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 449 and a specialist 93 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1290	We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1291	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1292	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1293	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1294	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1295	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Finance: "Urgent provisions for the implementation of the budgetary objectives and structural reforms agreement and other provisions" was accepted in principle and under the articles. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1296	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1297	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1298	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1299	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1300	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1301	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1302	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1303	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Urgent provisions implementing the budgetary objectives and structural reforms and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, Articles and all of them and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1304	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1305	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-22-S1-commons.u1306	With the consent of this House at 23.34 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Monday 23 May 2016 at 17.00 hours, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
