ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We begin with the first with number 656/15-3-2016 top-level question of the first-round question of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Anna Vageias to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, on the exacerbation of the problem of trafficking - trafficking - drug use in the center of Athens. In this timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, responsible for civil protection, Nikolaos Toskas. Here, Mrs. Vaguena, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for agreeing to come here and talk about this. I would just like to say that I do not want it to be another timely question that I will be leaving, because I have raised a subject, and you too are pleased, because you have responded formally. I would like there to be a result of this, because it is a story that tortures the inhabitants of the centre of Athens, where I live and work for about twenty years, and which I have repeatedly tried to bring to the fore and to have a solution. It's not only my neighborhood, the Metaxoglou, and the neighborhood around the area of Omonia that is plagued by this problem, it's almost all the center of Athens, around the National Museum, in Tositsa and others. I do not believe that the Greek police over the years have been unable to deal with this issue, I do not want to believe it. Alas, if I thought a group of people could not be found in my place to sell narcotics. And of course, I'm not talking about children, about users, about sick people, but I'm talking about merchants, who really break down the center of Athens. I do not want to say worse, that there is a cover-up, because the areas are delimited, we all know them. We, the residents, know almost with their names and faces the drug dealers. I don't think the police know them. Minister, something needs to be done about this. I have here - and not only here, for some ten years I have been dealing with - a series of letters to all the ministers who have spent and to the mayors and others. Unfortunately, this has not been addressed. We need to deal with this matter immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Baguea. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the timely question. It is known that the drug issue has been employing the Attica region for decades and especially the centre of Athens. Khompos is Athens, because half of our country's population has been concentrated here. In the area of Athens there are about a thousand five hundred drug addicts, about five hundred roaming all day long, people who had either previously joined UNA and continue to use drugs or not. That's an important number. Of course, I am going to recall images of many European capitals, in which there is much larger phenomenon, to a much larger number. It is a problem which, by police force alone, is not solved by repressive measures. It is a problem which, as we all know, is complex, employs our society and, in particular, part of young children, fortunately small, but employs. As far as traffickers are concerned, it is well known that if anyone follows the successes of the Greek Police, they will see that where they come from, or rather, a large part of the drugs - I mean Western Attica, I mean the center of Athens - there have been great successes. Please do not zero these successes. As far as the names of the traffickers are concerned, since they are well known for many years, please anyone who knows them, here we are, here is the Greek Police, to make the complaints and take action by the competent authorities. It is an issue that obviously concerns our society to a large extent. Apparently, it concerns people in some neighborhoods, because it's not pleasant to see people on your doorstep. But it is not the main issue if it is pleasant or not. The main point is that there are these people who are suffering, are slowing down, and of course the efforts of our society, our state, to deal with the problem, must be stepped up. That's all for now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Bagena, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u6	Minister, I'm sorry, but I'll be unpleasant. There has been nothing, Minister, in the center of Athens, unfortunately, even one year of our own governance. We said we would take care of people's daily lives. We didn't take care of her. The Prime Minister told us it was our main concern. It has no financial cost. The police know very well where the drugs are going. I am responsible for the reason I am saying and I know that it has demarcated areas. Because we have seen it for years, we people of the Centre live in which areas prostitution is taking place. It's not only the drugs, it's the tolerant houses that grow after each other in the silk mill. I don't want to believe we have such an incompetent police force. I don't want to believe it. I prefer to say that there are corrupt people - and I have the responsibility of speech I am saying - not incompetent. It has not been done, Minister, unfortunately nothing has happened. I personally, because I have spoken many times in the past, and I have conflicted on this matter, I tell you that if people in my region make dynamic mobilisations, I will go out ahead. You tell us to be in social movements first. I'll be forward. It doesn't work anymore! In the area below Omonia are residents, workers, businessmen and tourists who move in it and it is a disgrace, because we are ten minutes from the Acropolis. The open buses pass, the tourists. What do they get through Coccinth Street? Show what? Where's the good press selling? What can I tell you about the names? That it's Mohammed and Ali? They're the same dark, black ones - it's not a matter of racism and you know my positions - the same faces, at least for four years. Me, and some people are saying hello to me. "Hello, Mom," they tell me. Minister, something needs to be done immediately and practically.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Baguea. Mr. Toska, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I would like to say a few words. At the moment, the Security Bodies and especially the Greek Police are fighting on many fronts. It helps deal with the problems of refugees - immigration, a matter in which much of our effort is being spent, and it also gives the battle of everyday life. Of course there are complaints and it makes sense that there are complaints, because we cannot make available the powers that we should, on matters that we would like to see. It is not fair, however, to say that the Greek police know and do nothing. It's not fair to say that he knows the Civilian Ministry and he doesn't do anything. A request, whoever knows names, to give them to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before going to the second topical question, let me inform the House that the three questions will be discussed from today's list of the twelve topical questions. One has already been discussed. The six of the nine other topical questions will not be debated because of the attendance of the respective ministers. One will not be discussed because of lack of competence. In other words, the topical question is not about the Ministry of Health, to which the honourable Member had addressed his question, but about which the Ministry of Labour is responsible. Nor will one be discussed as a result of a Member's impediment. Finally, the third topical question, one of those which is sufficiently justified, in my opinion, will not be discussed after consultation of the honourable Member with the relevant Minister. The fourth question, under number 588/29-2-2016, will be discussed in the context of the second question by MP Phhotidis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Astalos Karastasis to the Minister of Health, concerning the problem of the operation of the General Hospital of Lamia. The Deputy Minister for Health will answer Mr. Paul Paulakis. Mr. Karastasis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, I think the issue of my topical question is not new and of course it is not unknown to you too. It is about the functioning or, I could say, almost non-functional of the General Hospital of Lamia. The reason why I am concerned with you today is that, on the one hand, this institution operates without a command from the beginning of January 2015 - the position has been covered fortunately and successfully, I could say, by the Director of the Medical Service - on the other hand, there is a step before the suspension of its basic clinical function. In addition, the problem of Paediatric and post-May Clinic, as well as of the CVS section, the Emergency Department. In short, I would like to mention - and I shall present to you in the Minutes a full list of the documents and actions mentioned - that since 17 August 2015, when the resignation of the one child with an organic position in the hospital has been accepted so far, there has been no organic specialist at the General Hospital of Lamia. Efforts have, of course, been made to recruit subsidiary children, but they have not accepted the recruitment as a whole, probably because of the lack of staff provided for by the establishment plan. As of January 1, 2016, a secondment was approved for six months by the Director of the Paediatric MEDIA of the Domokos Health Center at the General Hospital of Lamia. After the end of my timely question, end of February, it was accepted by your Ministry - and this is very important - the hospital's request to hire two children for one year with a service receipt. I believe that this is a move in the positive direction and, if I am not mistaken, this competition has now been posted to cover the seats. Since the Paediatric Clinic of the General Hospital of Lamia is a capacity of twenty beds, there are six organic locations of qualified children and in order to cover newspapers, every month, decisions of the 5th RC, on the movement of children from different units - movements which are not fully implemented, because some of the doctors deny - it is obvious that the Paediatric Clinic of the General Hospital of Lamia does not work. This, however, is evidenced by the fact that four on-call days were left in January and two on-call in February. The irrational distribution of staff between the health units is seen by the fact that at the same time at the General Hospital of Livadia and Thebes, who do not have a Paediatric Clinic, are serving six qualified pediatricians - four in Livadia and two in Thebe - and since January 1, 2016, the Director of Paediatrics of the Ditomos Health Center was seconded there. Mr. Undersecretary, I don't even dare think that this may be the choice of your ministry. So I expect to hear - and with me, I believe, the devastating people - what you intend to do to bring the situation up again, both in terms of administration, which is missing, and in terms of meeting the needs of medical permanent staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Karanastasis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u12	Mr Karastasis, thank you for the timely question, because you give me the opportunity to clarify some things. I will answer your timely question as a whole, because with your hospital, as with all the hospitals in the country for four to five months, we have been giving a very big fight to balance, because the system has been and still remains to a certain extent instability. First, you will know well that last year in the 2015 budget, 7.396.134 euros were approved for financing the Lamia Hospital from the state budget. On 31-12-2015, the money actually provided to meet the needs of older years, with the increase given by the Ministry to the limit of expenditure on hospital financing, especially for the Lamia Hospital, was from 7.300.000, 11.268723 euros, which were given to the hospital. The original forecast of this year's budget for 2016 - we did so much to meet some needs - is 3,000,000,000,000 more than last year's initial one. It's 10,387,520 euros. The first question, namely, is that we have strengthened your hospital, like all, with an enhanced budget from the state grant, precisely to solve operating, supply and so on. I will also say - because I hear a lot of Cassandras - that while last year's hospital was funded with about EUR 900,000, at the moment, that the third month has not been closed, it has been funded with EUR 1,550 000 from this money, that is, the currency is currently covered. I'm going to answer a whole question, I don't think I'm gonna need a second. Secondly, as far as pediatricians are concerned. First of all, you know that we have appointed from September and then an ancillary orthodox and an auxiliary radiodiagnostic at your hospital. We have appointed three subsidiary pediatricians, who have not been accepted. Also, you need to know that a curator II Anesthetics, a permanent doctor for the ICU, is now in progress and soon comes the FEK for a curator of Thoracics and a curator of Second Urology. We have dismantled these old notices, since 2010, 2011 and so on. The appointments have been signed and are in the process of publishing the CVT. A long delay here is to send the hospitals the payroll number. We've checked all the other steps. We have not been able to control that yet. They have to send us the registration number to get inside the FEC. In addition, an ancillary pediatrician is already provided for in CEDEFOP recruitment. Yours is one of the few hospitals where that exists, precisely because we knew about the problem as you did. Another two - three others are so, where there were specific deficiencies in specific specialities. In this great proclamation of four hundred nurses and a hundred doctors, who were basically for the ICUs, the Hospital of Lamia is one of the hospitals where we put an ancillary pediatrician for this very reason and for the lack of it. You know that the interim results have already been announced. You have five places from there since the November announcement, which are nursing staff: a midwife, a Nurse of Nursing, an AC and two DC of Nursing Assistants. Since the 1st of the month this has been signed, because it had passed a provision in the summer - and it has well passed - that when you have repeated appointments that you do not accept, there must be the possibility of being recruited by a service document for some, by the qualifications they do not accept. This has been signed by the Ministry since 1 March and, from what I have learned, this declaration has been posted today and we have 21 March. This is the pace of Greek bureaucracy and Greek administration. From there on, you should also be aware that as far as the ASs are concerned, the Pharmacy Assistants requested by the hospital are concerned, we publish them. Also, in the great notice that goes out in April, six permanent doctors are provided for your own hospital, two of which are pediatricians, ten nursing staff and two other staff posts. That's the programming we've done. We know that it does not fully meet the needs, but we know that this is also a substantial step in the right direction. From there, be sure, Mr. Karanastassis, that we are fully aware that your hospital is one of what Genaris has been without governors since last year. The process begins and moves forward and your hospital as well as three - four others will go further ahead than their turn, precisely because they have been out of administration for a long time. It is completed in the next few days for the Eastern Aegean and Kilkis. We have prepared for the large university hospitals in the country and a few large hospitals in Athens and, at the same time, within there we will include some - three, four, five hospitals in Greece, which have a major problem with management and malfunction. Because it can't be signed on 1st of a month and the proclamation comes out on 21st when you have that problem. There are also some other issues about which the doctors have even sent me today from your hospital. I have daily contact with too many doctors from all over Greece. For example, if the hospital is in trouble with gauze, the administration is in trouble right now. Because we downloaded from the Observatory the unreasonable low prices they had on purpose, selling five packages of gauzes or five pairs of gloves to a hospital in Greece and sitting in the system. We changed this with the amendment adopted in the parallel programme and a new market framework has been established until the conclusion of the tenders, which also protects public money and covers the possibility of hospitals being supplied. So it is clear that there is a question and we will deal with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Karastasis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Minister. I think I am partly covered by your reply on the subject of the procedure that is currently being followed to cover some positions. The Hospital of Lamia is housed in a very modern building of the last fifteen years, and work is already under way on renovation of the village of Lamia, which will be operationally integrated into the General Hospital. I believe that soon the capital of the Region of Central Greece in terms of building infrastructure should perhaps have one of the most modern infrastructures as health units. And, of course, because they are made with money from the legacy of the Greek people, we believe that they should also be operationally able to provide these services to those who have paid for all this money in their latitude so that we can cover them. Of course, these efforts should not remain in the failure - numerically - of the medical, nursing, administrative and other staff of the institution. For some ten years now, the Lamia General Hospital, under the responsibility of the previous governments - and I do not say so, but with proof and evidence in the Minutes - has been gradually depreciated, without any medical and other staff, without the necessary appropriations for its operating expenses. It is characteristic - and I tabled it in the Minutes - that on 5-12-2008 the Government of the New Democracy, during the visit of PASOK MPs, led by Mr Floridis, there were the same problems that exist today. In 2008! The then commander of the hospital, Mr. Bryan, who was also a candidate for the New Democracy, asked for the help of the entire stadium to deal with the problems of the hospital. The same man then became a New Democracy MP in the period of the New Democracy - PASOK coup d'état, but he forgot what he pointed out at the time as hospital commander, since the situation deteriorated, as evidenced by a press report by a valid lawyer from the city of Lamia in July 2012, who sought guilty of the tragic situation in the hospital and had proposed as witnesses all the directors from the hospital's clinics. I put these in the Minutes. That also applies to the person who has often asked questions about this matter, my colleague, Mr Fthiotidas, and former Minister of the New Democracy, Mr Staikora, who, during his ministerial service, literally collapsed. A few days ago the General Hospital of Lamia visited the new President of the New Democracy, Mr. Mitsotakis, to record his late interest in the institution that was mainly dismantled. Today the General Hospital of Lamia is located without administration, with insufficient credit and minimum staff. For example, Minister, his organizational chart provided for a hundred and forty-three organic posts for doctors. Today they are covered as soon as seventy-one, i.e. 50%. I believe, Minister, that, as in other areas of public life in this particular case, the SYRIZA Government has received a broken health system. However, because the issue of public health is a special one, and because our government is particularly sensitive to this issue, I appeal, transferring the anguish of the deaf people and, of course, recognising the deep economic crisis that our country is facing today, not to become the alibi of the previous governments that led to today's sad situation, the General Hospital of Lamia and also the health in Greece in general. The Lamia Hospital shouldn't be closed. And I want to tell you something, Mr. Undersecretary. Some people who have chosen to support the government's efforts in the health sector are likely to be inadequate. I think that sometimes such persons should be removed and replaced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Karastasis. Minister, I don't think you need any intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u16	I just want to say a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u17	I would ask for a brief answer, because you have exhausted the time of your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Karastasis, we're only opening up. We're not closing. On Saturday I was in Santorini, to open a hospital that was ready since 2011 and hadn't worked. He was getting ready for sale. The end of May is going to work, and this is where we will be. Secondly, we are all judged, as the Prime Minister and us judged by what we are doing. Previously, I referred to what we were doing and what we are preparing. That's what we could, that's what we did. So we're judging the entire administration, the Ministry and everyone. We have also moved to corrective movements in some DSOs where there was a problem. From that point on, we're all judged.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u20	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u21	We'll get to you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The third, with number 639/10-3-2016, is a top-level question for the Seers of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleighis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the Greek Sugar Industry, is not discussed due to the Minister's impediment. The fourth under number 670/15-3-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the reconstructing of the Labour Housing and Labour Housing Organizations, is not discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr. Antonopoulou. The second question under number 660/15-3-2016, first question by MP Kavala of New Democracy, Nicholas Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the reintroduction and restoration of the wage-rate subsidy, based on European regulations, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, Mr Stathakis. The first under number 661/15-32016, a topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Mr Anastasios State to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the reintroduction and restoration of a wage-rate subsidy measure based on European regulations, is not discussed due to the Minister's impediment, Mr Stathakis. The second question under number 640/10-32016 by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of National Defence, on the Greek Defence Systems (ESA), is not discussed due to a blockade by the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas. The second question by No 3163/15-2-2016 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKENKKKKENKSKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKOKIKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKIKIKOKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOGOKOVOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOGOGOGOGOGOGOKOGOGOGOGOGOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOK The sixth question under number 668/15-32016, first question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos Kammenos to the Minister of Health, concerning the centres for disability certification and the evaluation of multiple sclerosis, is not discussed due to lack of competence. As I said in the first communication to this House, the Ministry responsible, to answer this timely question, is the Ministry of Labour. The fifth under No. 658/15-32016 top-level question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Second Thessaloniki Mr.Akaterini Markos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the payment of workers to social structures for the immediate treatment of poverty, is not discussed due to a blockade by parliament. Finally, the third question under number 671/15-3-2016, the second question of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the dismissal of a trade union worker in the chain of shops - a coffee company "MIKEL COFFEE COMPANY" in Drama, is not discussed after consultation of the honourable Member with the relevant Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Kegeroglu, you wanted to say something. What exactly? Now, that's not customary, but we're trapped as Bureau...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u24	It's happened before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u25	Leave it, Mr. Loverdo. Well, as Bureau, we give the floor to Members who are not discussing their questions, with responsibility, obviously, as I said, of the Ministers' tampering with them...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u26	We'd be done now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u27	Well, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, it is not one of the usual absences. The question relates to unpaid workers, to the Ministry of Labour as a whole and does not concern Mrs Fotio, who is responsible for a particular sector. Since he is in the Chamber and the Minister for Labour, Mr Katrugalos, of whom I do not, of course, have the requirement to answer our question, since he was not prepared, I would like to point out this phenomenon which, unfortunately, is still going on and which he should see in relation to the Ministry of Labour himself. We have too many problems with unpaid workers, with poverty structures, with social structures, with 'Help at Home' - the 2016 programming contract has not been signed - and we also have the last case, which the public-benefit protection programme, Minister, applies to all municipalities except for for forty nine municipalities in the country. These are issues that need to be answered. I would therefore ask you, when you are, of course, prepared, because today, obviously, you have not been informed either by the other relevant or co-legislative ministers, to come and answer us and do not despise parliamentary control. Mr President, at first I was told that it was a lack of competence. When I proved to them that it was the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, they said 'good, now it has a coma'. Do you understand what this is about? You can also ask the services to which the lack of competence has been declared at the beginning and after the coma. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u29	Mr Kegeroglu, I am not questioning what you have said nor am I going to carry out such control, as you suggest me. That's what you're saying about me. From there on, your view has been heard, your objection has been repeated - I think - from this point of view all those who chair the parliamentary scrutiny procedure put forward to the government, apparently expressing the whole House, the strong dissatisfaction with the repeated postponements of topical questions, the list of which is now too long.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Jelloney, for the same reason you want to talk? What about the timely question that is not being discussed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, I would like half a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, can I answer Mr. Kegeroglu something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u34	I'd love to, but Mr. Jellonis will be finished first, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u35	Not on the same subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u36	You want the floor for your own timely question, to express your objection to the fact that it is not debated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u37	Not only. This isn't the first time. I'd like to protest that Mr...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u38	You have the floor for a minute, Mr. Jeleigh. Excuse me very much, but you don't have the basic patience to give you the floor. I'll give you the floor. It has not been denied by the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u39	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u40	You have the floor for a minute, strictly, please, to continue the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, this is not the first time that the Minister for Rural Development has not come to a timely question in order to answer it. At least three times he refused to come and answer. This issue concerns the future of the Greek Sugar Industry and the future of customs farming in the country and now that it is timely, now that farmers have to collect around 9 million since 2015 and they have to enter a growing season, the Minister is hiding. And it is not a consensus that his secretary should take a day before our office and say 'workload'. However, it is not a burden to leak out, without knowing what farmers will do for tomorrow. I think that, at last, the Minister for Agriculture must understand that the answers to Greek farmers must be given at the moment when they must, because after a holiday, unfortunately, it is too late.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Jelloney. Your objection has been recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u44	Here, what do you want, Mr. Loverdo? Not provided.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u45	Of course, it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u46	What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u47	I, too, have tabled a timely question which, as you have announced, is postponed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u48	Good. Take the floor for a minute too, so you don't think we're wrong. You have the floor for a minute, Mr. Loverdo, please. Look, Mr. Voridis is patiently waiting for his turn. You have the floor for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u49	You are right, Mr President, as all your fellow Members do, because, due to the abusive behaviour of the ministers, the Bureau of Parliament has chosen the very correct method, at least, of the Members who have tabled topical questions, which the ministers do not answer, to come to Parliament to say what this is about and to save the timeliness of parliamentary scrutiny, because this is the case, and through this informal customary procedure, as I think - it will be a function to save the timely parliamentary control. What does the Minister have to say, Mr President, about my case, because of a workload? Is parliamentary work not within his duties? And it was better if he was a Minister alone on an object. When do we have two? This is unforgivable, not to come to the House, and I strongly protest. And the case of the Ministry of National Defence is a case of Ministry having two political officials: the Minister is in the United States for an official visit. I don't know if it's true he took the Navy band with him, like the channels say. It'll turn out by night if that's the way it is. It's embarrassing if it's done. In any case, however, there is a Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Loverdo, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, you were here a few weeks ago when he answered a timely question about the Hellenic Defence Systems. You were at the Step, if I remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Loverdo, limit yourself...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u53	You're interrupting me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u54	Yes, I'm interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u55	I'm closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u56	Please limit yourself to the wording of your objection. You filed your objection. Of course, the Bureau is assisting, not only with you, with all the Members whose questions are postponed as a result of obstructions from the relevant ministries or ministers. We have said so on several occasions from this step and from the Conference of Presidents. I think, however, that this way, because the next Member, who too wants to express his objection, is waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u57	Good. So I asked a timely question...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u58	Please, Mr. Loverdo, let's close it down here. Don't look back on the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u59	...for the Hellenic Defence Systems, Mr. President. It was a very timely question from the point of view of Parliament's style and I was given practical answers. The next day I saw, Mr President, that none of the answers were correct. Even for the redundancies that took place...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Loverdos, I can't answer your questions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u61	Don't do that. Between us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u62	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u63	This is going to move the matter between us. Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u64	No, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u65	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u66	You can put a question to the Minister as well and come to the House in the procedure for parliamentary scrutiny to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u67	I'm done. I'd be done. One of the answers given to me, which involved redundancies of workers, was that they were lawyers and lawyers there were many. I heard the next day they hired a lawyer to the Hellenic Defence Systems. It is a lie, which should not be allowed to stay on the air for long. That is why, Mr President, I would ask you very much on behalf of all my colleagues, but also of my own, that the Bureau should do something to ensure that the ministers come to Parliament at the time. We're protesting...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u68	You're not listening, Mr. Loverdo. I said before you say that, before you take the floor, the Bureau and the Conference of Presidents have repeatedly expressed its opinion, there have been repeated complaints to the Government in all ways, both by the President and by the Conference of Presidents which we have discussed several times. You were present periodically in these discussions. Minister, I'm sorry now, but we're in the complaint ball. Let us also give the floor to Mr Panayotopoulos who has asked for it. Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u69	I'll be very brief. It was a timely question tabled to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, Mr Stathakis. I have to submit to this House this to show that the situation has become tragic in this case of postponements. On Thursday night he contacted the minister's partner with my office to tell me that on Friday the Minister had a speech. I asked her if the Minister's speech would last until Monday afternoon. And in her reasonable question for my question I told her that the debate on this topical matter had been redefined for Monday 21st and not for Friday 18th of March, so that the Minister's office could also know when the Minister was going to discuss - in any case, that was the programme, obviously it did not - that question. This question has been tabled in conjunction with a similar question - exactly the same according to the content - of the colleague, Evros Evrossakis. This story was about crying and now it's laughing: the Minister's office tells me that the Minister won't discuss tomorrow, but not to know that it was going to be discussed a few days later. I put it here in this House to show how far this situation has escaped from every limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Panagiotopoulos, thank you. Your opinion has been recorded. Minister, have you asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u71	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u72	Before we begin the timely question, the Minister has already asked the floor from the outset. The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, George Katrugalos, has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, I have taken the floor because, in the obvious violation of the Rules of Procedure, but according to customary law, as Mr Loverdos said, I have heard complaints and reproach against the government, without the Ministers to whom these objections are addressed, so with an unambiguous response. The current government has shown that it shows unlimited respect for parliamentary procedures, with, for example, its President, who, unlike all previous Prime Ministers, is present in the House, not only in all parliamentary procedures, but also in reply to questions addressed to it. If there is a complaint, or that you are being deceived by the Ministers with the answers they give you or that they are not present, the Constitution and the Rules of the House are provided for in a treatment procedure. So since you respect the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, turn a question into a question or make reproach to the ministers who think they are in breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u74	What did we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u75	You just did it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u76	Otherwise we find ourselves not promoting parliamentary procedures, because this is the main difference in a television window from parliamentary control, that executive power can really be controlled, and not impressed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u77	Good, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, you have heard the Minister say that this is an unanswered question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Kegeroglu, no matter how loud you are, I'm not giving you the floor. Understood?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u80	Don't I have the floor? But what does it say now, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u81	We continue with our first question with No 2776/29-1-2016 by the Deputy Minister of Attica of New Democracy Mr. Mavroudi Vorides to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the Fund for the Auxiliary Insurance of Fuel Liquids (TEAPYK).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u82	Here, Minister, the question is this and it remains a second time unanswered! Read it! She's unanswered. Understood?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u83	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu, hold on!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u84	Respect the space you're in, Mr. Kegeroglu!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Kegeroglu, please. Mr. Voridis, come on, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. If I may, a little intervention in this debate I have heard. Minister, the answer is challenging and it is challenging because, when you are not answering 80% of the questions today, you cannot now say to the opposition that it is doing so because it does not turn the simple questions into timely questions. This is an insulting position for parliamentarians. You should, as a member of the government, urge your colleagues to respond instead of abandoning the opposition, because it is allegedly not turning a simple timely question into a timely question, which, incidentally, is also the case with enthusiasm. I now come to today's subject. By the way, today's issue was a simple written question, which was not answered and because it was not answered today as a timely question. I would therefore prefer that it had been properly answered in writing. I did not consider this question necessary to be a timely one. I'm making it timely, because you're not responding in time from the Ministry. So I come to that question. What's the question? It's simple. The Venice Association of 6-8-2015 addressed a document asking you about the conditions - it brought a number of issues - conversion of the Venzian Selling Fund, which had been subject to the OAU, according to the provisions of the Law, to an autonomous Auxiliary Insurance Fund at TEAPYK, under the conditions, of course, laid down by law, namely, the existence of a decision of a general assembly and a proportionate study. They addressed this question on 6-8-2015, followed by n. 4334/2015, retroactively subjecting these funds to the OAU, and on 14-8-2015 n. 4336/2015, with which the specific TEAPY has now been subject to the EIB. And they asked you the question, in which you - and I can tell you that this was the interesting part of the question - you answer them this: you answer them on 27-8-2015, that is, after there have been two previous legislations, and you say to them: "I will ask a question to the Legal Council of State". What can you ask the Council of State, and what can it say to you, after there have been two regulations which, in essence, subject them to the EIF? What can the legal counsel of the state answer you? What did you not understand and need your opinion, the law-lawying and law-abiding one? You ask the Legal Council, after you have told them 'My position is that your fund must be made autonomous'. What was your question? So here, on the one hand, you promise to maintain their fund, as an ancillary insurance fund, and on the other hand, you tell them that you will also ask the Legal Council and you will reply accordingly. And finally, I ask: what is your intention? How do you plan to regulate this matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u87	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u88	On the first point, whether this government respects the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure, I refer to my previous answer and, above all, how this tradition has been formed in recent years. See the Prime Ministers, see the Ministers, see the statistics, and you will understand that we are right and you are wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u89	What are you doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u90	My presence here is, I think, proof of my respect for both my colleagues, you and Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u91	It's none of your business, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u92	It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u93	All right, let's not have a dialogue. Let the Minister answer, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u94	On this point, the Act provided that for those funds that do not submit and are not approved a proportionate study, there would be a self-evident integration of them from 1-7-2015. The Fund submitted a request in June, which could not be answered by the administration. They have, as you say, followed two laws, which, with retroactive effect, have provided for the self-evident integration of this fund. But in my opinion, what legal paradox was there? There was an application submitted in time, that is, when the retrospectives of subsequent laws, which had never been examined by the administration, had obviously not been involved. This fact was in my knowledge and the gas sales at our meeting. I considered it crucial to ask the Legal Council whether, in view of the general principles of law, such as the principle of obedience or legitimate expectations of the citizen to the State, the fact that the application had been filed in a timely manner and could not have been examined within the limits laid down by the law at the time, there was a possibility that the application would be valid at that time. The Legal Council took a different view, with the very later opinion number 313/2015 - even signed on 29 December 2015 - which I am tabling. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Georgios Katrugalos presents, for the minutes, the above-mentioned opinion, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices]] As you will also see in my letter, in which I was simply recapitulating what I told them orally at our meeting, I told them that the outcome of their request depends on whether it will be considered in the short term, in view of this legal coordination that I told you and in view of its completeness. With regard to the second, I submit the reply of the Analogue Authority, which was given to the Fund on 18 August, from which it appears that the proportionate study they had submitted, while due to the news principle at least until 31-12-2014, was in 2013. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Georgios Katrugalos presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So my answer is that I tried to exhaust all the possibilities imposed by legality in order to examine this application. Retrospectively, it appears that this application was not rescued, because even if the Legal Council had responded otherwise, there was a deficit in the absence of a legitimate proportionate study. In your second question, too, as to whether we intend to abolish the retroactive provision, I would remind you that it is a provision contained in the n. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work was rejected by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. There is a failure to abolish the unilateral regulation, because this would mean that we are going out of the line of negotiation. And for that very reason, we have tried to remove this provision in the light of the inability to withdraw it, to find another way that could serve the demand of the gas-sellers, precisely because we were trying to exhaust all legal and factual possibilities available to address the request.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Vorides has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u96	We are, of course, talking here now - if you wish - about the facts, but, Minister, I will be allowed to tell you, they were known when you gave your reply. And basically the complaint and the audit is that. It was known that the law was a memorial. It was known that the law had no possibility of unilateral changes. So what was the question to the Legal Council? I say that over there, against these people, you have avoided giving a straight and clear answer like the one you are giving now. Today you are giving them a straight and clear answer. It can't be done. The question to the Legal Council of the State was obviously answered negatively. Because there was - as you can see - no legal means under two legislation, which solved this issue in any way. That's kind of self-evident to me. So what were you trying to rescue at that time? You tried to avoid August, in view of what has been done, the political responsibility of giving a clear answer. I do not know if it was in your knowledge at that time. I guess it wasn't. The question of analogy came up later, which I too am now aware of. The control now being carried out, Mr President, is, in fact, not why it is not understandable what the Minister says about this matter, but why he did not give a straight and clear answer to these people when he was putting this matter to him, and he obviously did not give this straightforward and clear answer because he did not want to take on the political responsibility of this pure, direct position which displeased them. So he tried to avoid them by telling them that something will be done with the Legal Council of State, while it was quite obvious that nothing could be done with the Legal Council of State at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Vorides. The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u98	Mr Colleagues, because you are a law-abiding lawyer, you realise that there is one question when an application has been lodged and has not been answered by the administration. I think that, because of this, there was some ground for the Legal Council to judge differently than it judged. I wanted to exhaust all the legal possibilities that existed. There was no misunderstanding on my part to the citizens concerned, because just as I explained it now, I had explained it to them too. That is why we had to wait for the Legal Council's opinion, so that we could have a definitive solution. More generally, in view of the Memorandum of Understanding, which we cannot unilaterally overturn, you know that our strategy is either to develop a parallel programme inactivating their adverse effects or to incorporate them into a more general policy of reform, as we do in insurance. So what we did in this case was not different from our general policy. We did not have the opportunity to abolish this provision, precisely because that provision was included in Mr von Wogau's report. Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2014 establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority), amending Decision No 4336/2015/EU and repealing Every effort has been made to exhaust every legal and real opportunity to meet a request we thought could and should have been considered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", twenty-four students and students and two teachers from the 19th Municipal School of Ioannina. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] At this point, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The Question No 15/10/22-2015 of the Members of the New Republic of Greece will be discussed. Georgios Koumotsakou, Stavros Kalafatis, Ioannis Kegalogannis, Athanasios Davakis, Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, Olga Kefalooyannis, Maria Antonios, Athanasios Boura, Theodorou Fortsakis, George Vlachos, George Georgios Georganta and Nikos Kerameos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the implementation of the European Migration Actions and progress report for Greece. On behalf of the Government, the Deputy Minister for Internal and Administrative Reconstruction and Migration Policy, Mr. Ioannis Mousalas, will respond. The Parliamentary Groups of the Parties were appointed as Parliamentary Representatives: from New Democracy Mr.Kos Kikilias, from SYRIZA Mr. Georgios Psychogios, from the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ilias Kasidiaris, from the Democratic Compact of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Athanasios Theocharopoulos, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Nikos Karathasopoulos, from Potamis Konstantinos Bariotas, from the Independent Greeks Mr. Athanasios Papachristopoulos and from the Union Mr. The speech is given for 10 minutes to the first questionable Member, Mr Kumouchakos, for his protagonism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I do not hide from you that I was amazed to hear that we would be discussing today in this House a topical question, which together with other good colleagues we tabled just three months ago. I wonder: is this a function of Parliament, Mr President, Minister? That's not a parliament. It's a historical record. But let's talk seriously. It is clear that there is a serious question of parliamentary control. Is this how parliamentary control will be exercised? It is clear that such procedures do not honor Parliament, underestimate all of us, but also the Bureau of Parliament and must be corrected, Mr President. Of course, the question as such is obsolete today, but not the substance of the crucial nature of the issue of refugees - immigration, which this question raises and highlights. And I would add here: if we had discussed the question on time and with due seriousness, if the government were to adopt some of the remarks, points and even the criticism of counter-population, perhaps today, things in the refugee - immigration had not reached the dramatic and tragic situation that we are all seeing. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, see what picture our country presents today, see it from above: In the north closed, sealed borders, together with the reproach, the shame of Idomeni, the 'Dahaou' according to Mr Kurubli. To the east, and as the government blocked ideologically and impotently cannot implement an infinitely dissuasive policy, there are NATO and FRONTEX operations under way. On the islands there will be thousands of Europeans, specialised officials and dozens of Turkish police officers. Here too, of course, are some questions raised - we will talk about them later - such as: What competence will they have? How will they do it? Will they join structures? What exactly will they do? The granting of asylum and the examination of asylum is a judicial function and the judicial authority is not replaced or assigned. How, then, will these people work? We'll talk about this. The great picture is that there are thousands of Europeans and also Turks, officials, to monitor how we manage refugee and immigration. Continuing to describe the country's image, I mention that all over the country are scattered non-governmental organisations without control. We don't know who's found and who's not. We don't know exactly what they're doing, how they do it and why they do it. Is that a European country picture? This is an image of a country under international supervision, Minister. And are you proud of this picture, you who are supposed to fight "national pride"? Until now, all fronts have been counting defeats. I think that, in fact, this agreement, which has been reached recently, is a defeat. It is necessary, of course, because, if it did not exist, it would have been very negative, because this would certainly remain without any prospect of improvement in the current disgraceful situation in the refugee - immigration. The Dahaou of Mr. Kourublis and the shameful camp in Piraeus are both symbols of the impotence of the government. All this would be gigantic. It is, therefore, first of all - but only first of all - positive that this was the agreement. However, let us see the essence of it, because there is a stop to positive thinking, concerns and questions. The European Union-Turkey agreement is extremely complex, complex and on many points worryingly unclear. It is general belief that this agreement will be very difficult to implement in practice and bring the results that Greece needs. Its ineffective implementation would turn our country into a growing camp of dozens or hundreds of thousands of refugees and immigrants. Train proof of how difficult this agreement is to implement is that thousands of qualified personnel are needed to implement it, but also, as we have said, Turkish observers established on the islands of the eastern Aegean with undetermined responsibilities. How will these people become part of the internal legal system so that national competence or even national sovereignty do not arise? Really, Minister, how will you handle the issue raised with the Turkish police officer - please, please, the Turkish mission - which seems to have sealed travel documents from the occupied Cyprus? I wish to hope, Minister, that at the very edge of your speech - or wrongly - you will not say it 'Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus'!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u102	All right, smart, very clever! You have sense of humor!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u103	With the agreement of 18 March, it is very likely, if not certain, that in the next few weeks you will be launching - listen, you are interested - the number of asylum seekers applying for asylum in Greece in order to avoid expulsion or returning to Turkey. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. President, please. Already yesterday, the first day of implementation of the agreement, a thousand refugees and immigrants arrived on the islands of the eastern Aegean. The dimension of the problem, which may arise, is even more visible in view of the fact that today the Asylum Service can consider twenty-two thousand asylum applications a year and at the same time the Secondary Board of Appeal is not working. An additional and particularly serious difficulty will be that the European States will participate in the relocation programme on a voluntary basis as soon as, very quickly, the present eighteen thousand posts are filled in. For this cooperation agreement with the major problems of implementation, the foggy provisions, the ambiguity, the dangerous questions, Turkey receives an antidote. It receives anti-corruption and tangible exchanges, such as firstly, three plus three billion euros of assistance from the European Union. Secondly, abolishing the visa requirement for Turkish citizens until next June. Thirdly, accelerating its process of accession to the European Union, which has already started with the opening of one of these up to now closed accession funds. So what do we see? You proceeded with an agreement with Turkey and it is doubtful whether it will be implemented. At the same time, Turkey takes exchanges. Turkey could, however, without an agreement and without exchanges, check the refugee flows. Do I call this arbitrary? No, Minister. That's what the numbers say. Watch the sequence of events. Thousands of refugees and immigrants arrived in Greece one week before the Council. Two hundred refugees and immigrants arrived just before the Council, because in Ankara they had to show that they control the flows. Once the Council has finished, a thousand refugees and immigrants have arrived again. What's the conclusion? Turkey, if it had the political will, could control the refugee and migration flows towards our country and Europe. But he didn't. On the contrary, she took advantage of this opportunity to draw consideration. And you have signed this. I recognise, as I told you, that, if we hadn't had a decision, it would have been worse. This decision, however, creates a lot of questions and what it achieves and whether it will be effective and what Turkey is gaining. All this does not justify, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras' gracious triumphs, which once again appears to have no full picture and perception of the texts he has agreed. Until it is clear whether and what specific results the agreement of 17 and 18 March can bring, one is certain. The Balkan corridor remains permanently sealed. The control of refugees and migration flows from Turkey to our country remains ineffective. Greece remains a country - the camp of thousands of refugees and migrants, trapped in terrible conditions, which affect both Greece and Europe, creating serious security and public health issues in the country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The relocation process is not working. You know that. The rhythms are frustrating. Do you have any indications that it'll go better? So all the fifty thousand will remain and be added through an uncertain process and other thousands of refugees and immigrants, and we do not trust that the state, your government, can manage them. You made commitments on 25 October 2015 without compensation - and then there had been a debate in the House - on 50 thousand refugees' premises. In fact, then, you were committed to making these structures within two months, by December. It's still not done. That was the reason why you gave rise to various well-beings in Europe starting to raise the debate on the country's isolation or exit from Schengen, because you failed to meet the great commitments you made on 25 October. And we talked about it. We said: “You can’t make it in two months. What compensation did you receive?’ Then, Minister, we had received a reply from the Prime Minister "we and 1 euro do not want". That is how Mr Tsipras said: "We do not claim the euro, because it is humanity, because it is the attitude of Greece". Now, of course, behind the backstage, but obviously there is a link with the programme, with the debt, with the VAT on the islands, with everything. When did you tell the truth? Then that you did not want 1 euro or now that you claim everything, substantially insulting the country's worthy conception - and Mr Tsakalotos said so - saying: 'Do not the next debate on whether or not the evaluation is to be closed should be carried out in Idomeni?' These are embarrassing statements and unacceptable if you talk about humanism and you mean it. But you lost him in the mud of Idomen. I conclude by saying that we have no confidence in your Government that it can bring about and implement a complex, difficult, vague and problematic agreement in any case. I hope that in your answers and clarifications there will be some light of hope. I am sure, however, that this will eventually prove to be a fake one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Kumucako. The next Member has the floor from the list of honourable Members, Mrs Kefaliannis. Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, I shall also use my time of denial. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, since the question was tabled to date, many things have changed both in Greece and in Europe. We already have three summits with undoubted government celebrations in each of them and the last Summit to produce the Agreement between Europe and Turkey. Unfortunately, what does not change is the government's inability to manage the refugee crisis, its inability to implement a single strategy in and out of the country, to stand as an equal partner in the European Union by drawing up a coherent political proposal, to exploit European benefits, to press Europe for more help and to meet its obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, the European continent and, of course, Greece, together in the last year, has been facing the biggest refugee crisis since the Second World War. Europe has found itself awkward to face up to it many times, trying to repulse the unpleasant reality. That is how it has evolved into an existential crisis for the principles, values, the future of the European Union. The initial reluctance to take active initiatives has enabled several countries to function not as members of an association seeking an effective, humanitarian, realistic and secure European immigration policy but as states - fortresses building walls of unconsciousness, detached from every concept of Community solidarity. This has been a dramatic consequence of the risk of the European vision and, unfortunately, the disintegration of European unity. All this obviously does not reduce to a minimum the major responsibilities of the government's majority in managing the refugee and migration crisis. I'd say the opposite. The government has done everything possible to make the crisis easier. And it wasn't just her ideoleptic claws. It was above all its inability to function coordinates, to get the state to work, to absorb European aid, to negotiate with our European partners. We should not forget, because it is directly related, that we have spent national capital on a negotiation tramp for the third memorandum. We have consumed energy, time, credibility, seriousness, in a process that has led us to closed banks, economic crisis and zero solvency. With the refugee and immigration problem, which you have devalued from the outset, you have led us to a closed border, a humanitarian crisis and, of course, to zero credibility. These are, unfortunately, the tragic effects of your policy, a two-stage policy. In the first phase, up to the September elections the logic of open borders prevailed. You thought that refugees "disappear" as magically. You have recorded with crime all the people who arrived on the Greek islands, effectively abolishing the Schengen Treaty. You were tragically delaying setting up the European asylum management service and when it was set up, they were without employees. Close - supposedly - the Amygdaleza with no plan and now, of course, call on you to create dozens of "Amygdales" of administrative detention. When we did not point to your problems, you pulled out of your ideological locker the charges of the extreme right, and you, with your actions and your omissions, were the perfect alibi for the real right-wing in many European countries and this, unfortunately, is also the great, tragic contradiction of history. You became the largest sponsor of arguments in Europe's most extreme circles. In the second phase after the September elections, you decided that something must be done with the constant pressure of the European Union and of course of Germany, which has taken on a significant part of the crisis. Here were problems, promises you couldn't keep, regressions of duration. One you wanted FRONTEX, the other you didn't want it. Ultimately, NATO is attempting. The same with Turkey. You're finally welcome Turkish officials to our islands. Even with a tragic delay, the Greek Army must be involved in meeting our country's commitments to the European Union for the creation of hotspots. We arrive in Idomeni, where easy and inexpensive words of humanism evaporate in your shocking absence, where there is no state, where a harsh humanitarian crisis is taking place with the sole responsibility of your government. And, of course, you continue to show your enormous weaknesses, not being able to absorb money from the European Union, which are still inactive. Our presence at European decision-making centres was and is disappointing. I would like to mention three examples: Firstly, since November, Mr Juncker had stated in plenary that the costs of each Member State on refugee will be examined separately under the rules of the Stability Pact. In other words, the expenditure of 2015 calculated by the IMF at around 0.17% of GDP, about EUR 300 million, may not be included in the deficit. Have you really made a request to that effect to the Commission? And if so, what's his final course? Secondly, the Commissioner for Regional Development, Mrs Korina Kretshu, has left open the possibility of revising operational programmes in the 2014-2020 budget so that funds can be used to deal with the refugee crisis. In this respect, Italy submitted a request. You, really, have you done something? Thirdly and perhaps more importantly, the European People's Party is developing an initiative to use the refugee fund for the previous budget for 2007-2013, which are to be returned to the contributing countries, an initiative in which the New Democracy MEP is also taking the lead, Ms Maria Spyraki. Have you taken such actions? Are you planning to politically support this effort with the European Left? Why do you let so many chances go to losers? Ladies and gentlemen, today it closes one 24 hours from the implementation of the problem agreement between the European Union and Turkey. There are a lot of questions and explanations that you need to give. How many of the officials will come to Greece from Turkey? How will the mechanism for monitoring the re-propulsions from Greece to Turkey work? How will the relocation mechanism work from Turkey? How will Greece contribute financially - with national resources? - the special fund for Turkey, to raise the sum of EUR 3 billion, for which the European Union has first committed itself? The only thing is that this agreement will also be judged in practice. Until then, Greece becomes a 'country of special conditions', with its northern borders closed, isolated from the rest of Europe in a special 'common space' with Turkey. We are now faced with the real humanitarian crisis. This is your absolute political and administrative failure. A bright exception to the enormous reserves of humanism, unhelpful and sincere, of the Greek people, who, despite the economic crisis and the difficulties, show an excellent behavior. It would be a good thing if you didn't get her into politics. You'd better respect her. Nothing, however, nor does the power of this people predestination a good future unless this government finally changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Kefaliannis. Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a topical question today, which was tabled on 22-12-2015. We are therefore discussing it three months immediately after the date of its deposit. Mr Katrugalos is not here - he has left - who threw us the idea of helping us, turning questions into questions and bringing the ministers to the House to answer. We see that an up-to-date question, which is a means of parliamentary control of increased power, comes to be debated three months after the date of its deposit, when, of course, the real situation on which the questions we raised are based is dramatically deteriorating. I shall confine myself to two specific issues, which I shall put into the debate, which demonstrate how unprepared the government has been to deal with the refugee flows, when these have now been intensified uncontrollably: the absence of a plan and, of course, the absence of minimum management capacity. So, for a long time now, ladies and gentlemen, we have pointed out the health risks of the uncontrolled refugee and migration flows. Our concerns were first published in January, when the parallel programme was then legislated, with provisions relating mainly to the Ministry of Health and among them were the access of unsafe refugees to the health structures of the country, namely medical care, medical care, medical care, care for health structures. We had had concerns about costs, first of all, but also about the extra burden that the country's health system would accept. We didn't get any specific answers. Indeed, the Minister responsible had rejected our objections in a rather ironic way, reassuring us that this is ultimately a healthy population and indeed the outrageous claim - as Mr Xanthos said - that the international literature also proves this! He said: “What are you yelling at? International literature says they are healthy populations." Even though they are healthy populations, despite the fact that this is very difficult to identify, since most of them come from countries - particularly Syria - in which for several years, because of the situation, every health structure has been destroyed, and so we have had no evidence for the status of their health. Reality in the course has revealed a quite different picture. We suspected this because the responsible body to determine the health status of incoming people, namely CEDEFOP, had not received any mandate from the Ministry of Health's political leadership in order to carry out any control of the hots incoming from the hotspots. No order had been received by the CDC and therefore could not give any statement as to the status of the incoming persons. Even if we were to accept that these are healthy populations, as you can see, in cases where you draw a shipwreck from the waters of the northern Aegean in December and January, some care is reasonable to expect that it is going to be necessary, especially when it comes to occupied people from the hardship of travel - particularly the sea piece that is dangerous - and young children. All the work of support came out of the various non-governmental organizations - particularly the Doctors of the World, the Doctors Without Borders, etc. - and so did these unfortunate people of some kind of care. But important issues have been recorded in those who have been promoted both in the mainland and, of course, in the final destination within Greece, that of Idomeni, where the situation is, as we know, dramatic. The burden due to this situation, because of the miserable living conditions, the health of a significant proportion of refugees - the vast majority of them are children - is a real health bomb and a danger, not only for the health of these people but also for the general public. We raised this issue with a question of thirty-six members of the Officerial Representation about a month ago and we are waiting for an answer. Meanwhile, there's already been a case of hepatitis A in Idomeni and another one in Piraeus. CEDEFOP raises its hands up, fails to monitor the situation within its problems. We are counting on it - and here is the crucial one - that by gradually improving weather conditions and engaging tens of thousands in specific parts of the country, the risk of erupting this health bomb is much greater. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As you know, when weather improves, conditions for the development of microbes, infectious diseases, etc. are also improved, especially in places where too many people are closed together at the same time. Mr President, I shall use my dentistry a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u108	You've got a three-minute period, Mr. Panayotopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u109	I will use it here, Mr President, and you can record this. The second issue, which again shows an incredible administrative shortage, is the financing of expenditure incurred, especially by local authorities. I have here to look at a very specific example of what Kavala, my constituency, operated as a refugee reception site because of the ferry connection with the island of Lesvos. He's been hosting over a month ago, around a thousand two hundred people. Very soon, Minister, I tell you - and I tell you to see it - that local authorities will not be able to carry out other costs and raise their hands up. Even at this moment there is no notice, no guidance or directive on where to go. Here, obviously, some people have to take the mediation role against the local government that raises the burden, along with the local communities that show an excess of solidarity, but with the absence of any government direction. The General Secretariat of the Decentralised Administration was set up as a candidate for coordination. This is a completely subordinated and bureaucratic mechanism that cannot solve the problem. Some municipalities, therefore, have incurred some costs. I give you the example of the Municipality of Kavala, which in thirty-six days has spent some 330,000 euros to host around nine hundred people in a special reception area. The average expenditure is about EUR 11 per day per guest. There are food costs, space cleaning costs, decontamination costs when the groups change, as some people leave and others go on another boat, costs of providing safety in the surrounding area, bus transport costs, even on a taxi basis, many costs. I also do not put the cost of rehabilitating the premises, which certainly need some intervention, when people get out of there and go to the permanent campsites. In other words, we are talking about a significant expense incurred by the municipality and also by other municipalities and nobody knows how it will be sought by whom. So, let an intermediate body be appointed to check the costs incurred by local authorities to record them and promote them at the next stage, even to financial operators from the European Union funds. If this is not the case, I predict that very soon local authorities will lift their hands up but will then turn the disposal of local societies, which have so far shown every good will to support these people. That's what I'm making. I wish I'd fall out. So far we have not fallen out of what we had predicted about the development of this situation. I wish we were wrong. At present, we have to record the total absence of a plan, a problem for which you do not have the full responsibility, but you have responsibilities for how it has been increased within the country and for your complete management failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u110	Mr Stavros Kalafatis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. And I'll use my dentistry if I have to. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, before I begin my speech, I would like to remind you that in a very critical period of political reclassification in the wider foreign policy area errors are not forgiven. That is why we have asked for Mr Muzala's resignation not only because he has used the term 'Macedonia' - that is the reason - but also because he has failed to manage the refugee, as I shall analyse in my position. Of course, here we have to say that it is paradoxical - not to say that we also need political courage - that many of the government or the SYRIZA's party are denounced and attacked in the New Democracy, for it is precisely because he called for the resignation of Mr Muzala, when there is the co-pilot, who is doing this very thing. Of course, if we are accused of populism by SYRIZA, Mr. Kammenos is obviously also accused of populism. But let's go to the object. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a complete failure in the political management of the refugee - immigration from the government. There are false estimates, lack of planning, inability to deal directly with the phenomenon. And I'm explaining. This is also apparent from the government rhetoric, but in particular from the actions, how the government has been politically managed by the refugee government over the last few months. At government rhetoric level, we'll put two charges. In one category we have confusing and contradictory statements made by Ministers on the same subject. Let me not give examples. I would just mention how Mr Baltas saw the issue and how Mr Kurublis or other colleagues saw it. But when we do not have any confusing or contradictory statements, then there is a clear message which has been emitted for several months. Let me say this very simple and popular: 'We have opened and waited for you'. That was the motto, and that is what I am talking about at rhetorical level, and the position of the Prime Minister himself, who said that there are no borders in the sea, and of course the well-known statements made by former government minister who spoke about immigrants who either were either being lost or disappeared. At political management level, that is, in practice, what happened? How did the government deal with this? Firstly, he opened up the Amygdaleza, despising the purpose and functioning of the closed pre-regulatory detention centres. And he gave a clear and very strong message at that time that there is no distinction between refugees and irregular immigrants here. Besides, the Prime Minister has just been forced by political and journalistic pressure to admit that there must be a separation of irregular immigrants from refugees, which has been evident for a long time throughout the world and through international law. To not say, finally, that in a recent interview he said that 'unfortunately, irregular immigrants must leave', if I am not mistaken. Secondly, the Government has abandoned the voluntary and compulsory reimbursement scheme for those who are not entitled to status as refugees. Between 2012 and 2014, some fifty thousand irregular immigrants had returned to their country. Thirdly - and here I want, Mr Ministers, to deny me or confirm me, because it is quite serious - and even the service government of August - there is information to say that the incoming people from Turkey were leaving without even being identified, which, as you can see, is a undermine of our country's obligation to effectively guard the external European borders. Fourthly, the government lacked interest in the operation of the agency disbursing the money from the new European Fund for Asylum and Migration. Mrs Kefaliannis made a reference to the missing opportunities on the part of the government to make use of European resources. There is a number of issues in this area - I do not have the time to extend - which has nothing to do with the Government's inability to activate the competent managing authority in time or to be able to request new funds in the national programme, which has been drawn up, started for a year and a half, to ask for additional funding, as was right, even for hot spots, detention and recording centres, which has been done. And there is a series of questions that need to be answered. Is this by negligence, gentlemen of the government, or was there a certain policy? Fifthly, the Government has committed itself too much, accepting the decisions of the October and November European sessions. You remember when this happened. We are aware of the fifty thousand points we are obliged to make, the sixty thousand refugees that were agreed to go through - thirty thousand were essentially hot spots and twenty thousand positions - points from the UNHCR - when we know that, according to the basic criteria of the population and economic prosperity that can be used to effectively distribute the refugee flows in the other countries, this has not been achieved. And there are countries which, of course, have a much larger population and a much greater financial comfort and will bear much less burdens than the Prime Minister's 'achievement' - our country is in a very difficult position with the government's responsibility. Sixth, the Armed Forces slowly entered the management of the matter after a quarter. And not forgetting that, the fact that time passes does not mean that things have not happened. Let us not forget, in other words, that there was even a lost quarter, where the head of the effort to deal with the management of the refugee - immigration issue was Mr Flamouraris and o of the miracle all of a sudden, in one night he was obviously replaced as a failure, because if he were successful, the Prime Minister would not give up. And that's where the Armed Forces actually entered, late in our opinion. And I think we should also congratulate everyone on the ruthless efforts made by the Armed Forces to help this national effort to deal with immigration and refugee. Seven, underestimate the interconnectivity between security and immigration issues in Europe. And there are also government statements on this. You know, a while ago, there were taboo issues. Do not talk about security matters, we risk being characterized by SYRIZA and the government with specific designations. It is slowly realised that the government is aware of the fact that, from the point of view of security and immigration and the refugee issue are issues which are interconnected, things are evident throughout the civilised world and throughout Europe, but things that you discover as rulers by slowly practising - slowly and perceived - the difficulty of administering and, of course, of going into unrealistic political criticism when I am in Anti-Population. Eighth and last but not least, the government was anticipating the closure of borders, but it was impossible to manage reality. Do we remember statements of your own, Mr Minister, Mr Muzala, and other colleagues of yours, Mr Drasakis, if I remember them well, who actually what they did? They proclaimed death. So one month before they close the border, what did the SYRIZA government do? Describe the problem, describe the situation. Instead of making superhuman efforts to avoid fatality, the closure of borders, we actually had a government that fatally merely described and told the citizens that the closure of borders is imminent. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So all this is evidence of the government's inability to deal effectively with a national, crucial issue, of course, with a humanitarian dimension, in particular, with a national security dimension, which certainly does not concern Greece alone, with the European Union having its own responsibilities and with Turkey having even more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u112	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u113	But we here are to put our backs on the New Democracy and wear the jersey of the National Greece and be in the international fora and the European institutions and we must do so and we must do so and the President Mitsotakis first, but of course we also have strong criticism, as we must, so that - if we can - at least give you advice to get better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr. Kalafatis. Before giving the floor to the next questionable Member, Mr Kefaliannis, whom we are calling on in Stepma, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERYOS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House organises and operates, thirty-nine students and students and two educational sessions from the 3rd General School of Dramas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, if the time taken for a government to answer a timely question is indicative of its reflexes, then we can very easily understand why it is constantly behind developments in migration and so many other issues. This, in my opinion, is the only time-limit for linking the question that we tabled together with other colleagues three months ago, in December, with today's debate. Once again we are inspecting the permanent impossibility of the government to act in a timely and preventive manner on such a serious national issue and its continued ineffectiveness to implement what it has already committed itself internationally. And for the reason true and before a dilemma you speak three times, the spokesman for the refugee, Mr. Kritsis, has confessed today that it is no longer twenty-four hours to respond to the state mechanism. The obvious question is why you signed this agreement. Minister, did you not know that every day that passes without applying it will be added to the Greek islands a thousand five hundred and two thousand young people, immigrants and refugees? Did you not know that the Greek Asylum Service with its existing capabilities cannot consider more than twenty thousand applications per year? Did you not know, since the summer of 2015, that it does not work and that the Secondary Board of Appeal has not been established? The answer is that since last September it has been known to everyone what had to have been done, which materialists and, above all, what human resources are needed. But this is in vain. The government's ability to create new problems is surprising. With what you have agreed, if you fail to make the first relaunches by 4 April, migration flows to our country will literally be launched. The first thirty - six hours have reached the Greek islands a thousand six hundred and sixty young immigrants. If you see, Minister, the numbers of the agreement, the fifteen days of the relocation cycle mean that a number of refugees, about thirty thousand, will be on the islands. If we add to them five days of delay, this population starts with about ten thousand young people instead of zero. In other words, until the message of re-promotion passes, and we hope that the flows will be reduced, there will be forty thousand people, over and above the forty-eight thousand who are already trapped. The question is, where will all these people live, Minister? Is it time you clearly told the islanders that the first reception centres from transit centres will be converted into hosting centres for new entrants, at least until the asylum application is completed? In addition, what provision is there for those who are trapped in the country before 20 March? What will be their fate if their application for asylum is rejected? Ladies and gentlemen, despite the limitations and celebrations the government has made in recent days, I think it is not a good deal. Our country is being called upon in a short time to deal with a chain of very serious problems, humanitarian and operational problems, concerning the living conditions of all these people, the already incarcerated, but also all those who are to be caught, institutional problems concerning the legal status and the freedom or the limitations on the movement of these people, which include pregnant women, children, disabled and indebted people, problems, lastly, with internal and external security, the protection of sovereignty, the sovereign rights and international competences of the country. At best, even if you manage to function everything in perfection, we will talk about a reduction in migration and refugee flows by only 50%. This is because the rule of one by one, which is based on the whole agreement, concerns only one nationality, the Syrians. Those of us who are still reading the numbers know that the Syrians who entered the country in 2016 are about 50% of the total number. The rest of them are mostly Afghans and Iraqis. For these people, the incentive to take the risk of a dangerous journey from Turkey's coast remains intact. This is because only in Greece will they be able to apply for asylum, in accordance with the agreement. We should therefore just expect a qualitative change in the nationalities of all those who enter our country next time. For all these complex and extremely complex issues, we are now expecting concrete and sincere answers from you and not verbal variations in the upcoming naturality. Because apart from the fact that the theories are not announced, I personally cannot remember any other case that so many and in a short period of time have been warning about the theoremia that we are living in today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. We have warned you that you are depleting your prospect of an inexpensive humanitarian rhetoric, which is going through the wrong messages very quickly in all directions, particularly those you are complaining of today's unilateral actions. We warned you to adopt a strategy to prevent and separate flows. You replied that all incoming people are refugees, with the cobbled thought of 'quabbard', that they will simply pass through Greece and go to Europe's 'knobs'. We were warning you to stop the open borders policy. You said that it was all the war in Syria. Only, Minister, the war in Syria does not explain why Greek islands were being chosen to enter Europe, nor does it explain why in January 2015 only sixteen Pakistanis entered and in December of that year three thousand seventeen hundred thirty-three. The results of this policy are being experienced today and unfortunately for you, the muds of Idomen are not just mirroring the institutional and worthy retreat of Europe that you so much like to denounce. It is primarily the blurred reflection of the inability of a government, which in no way represents, nor is it worth the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr. Kefalogan. The last two speakers from the list of questions to be answered, namely, Mr Davakis and Mr Georgiontas, under the Rules of Procedure, have the right to protology of three minutes and two minutes, that is, five minutes to the total. I'll let you know who you don't know. Mr Athanasios Davakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the first honourable Member, Mr Koumoutsakos, has mentioned the specific procedure of the New Democracy's timely question as obsolete, because in fact, from 22 December 2015, a timely question has been tabled - and indeed, listen - to an issue that shocks the Greek society, the Greek territory, our country in general - is coming to be debated today. It has also been said by other colleagues that this has been the case. I appeal to the Bureau, from now on, Mr President, to have better reflexes and, I would say, to have greater sensitivity to such unprecedented issues which concern the House and, in particular, to all of us Members of Parliament. I see with melancholy the SYRIZA colleagues who are listening to criticism - mild criticism, I would say, of the New Democracy - and indeed within them I feel they are consenting. A year and a half has elapsed since the eruption of the issue, following Mrs Christodoulopoulos's events and well-known outbursts. Mr Muzala, your resignation, requested by Mr Panos Kammenos, was wrongly requested for me. You should have ceased automatically by the Prime Minister, despite the efforts you have made on immigration, and you know what you had to deal with, in relation to the absence of any mechanism. But hypocrisy has brought the political life of the country where it has been brought. Young people who want to believe in politics, when they hear this kind of shadow theatre, that is to say, calling for the resignation of a minister as if the Prime Minister cannot stop the minister who appointed - and from the Constitution - you understand that all of this is now escaping the sphere of reality and leading to other spheres. Because I have a little time, I wanted to talk about the facts, which finally got the Armed Forces involved. The Armed Forces of the country, which the New Democracy respects, loves and particularly thanks at this difficult time, especially the General Staff and Commanders of the Armed Forces who have finally undertaken to unleash the whole case called "migration crisis" and "refugee question", in camps, infrastructure, in feeding. These Armed Forces have been involved in a process that no one knows when to end, when all of them, ladies and gentlemen, are aware that the main task of the Armed Forces is not to offer two thousand six hundred meals, for example, every day to all these people, at the expense of the staff budgets. They have not taken one drachma, when Mr. Kammenos, the Minister of National Defence, is in America, accompanied by a 20-year-old band of the Navy for the events of 25 March. The costs are covered by the operational calculations of the staff. And I ask: have the Armed Forces, which, on a 24-hour basis, 24-hour basis, participated in this process, have they taken off the ground, even for national reasons? In fact, the Minister mentioned the agreement with NATO, which has not yet begun. That's funny. Unfortunately, the Minister of National Defence dedicated this agreement to the memory of the three heroic officers of the Navy who fell in China! We have been there many of the members of the Committee on National Defence and we know that it has asked that they should not be kept practically. And now it turns out why the Minister of National Defence asked that they should not be kept practically at that meeting, because what he said was, unfortunately, out of reality. So when this agreement is being implemented experimentally, as he says, our country is involved in a military manoeuvre in Turkey which, through this NATO agreement, highlights the constant and serious demands it has in the Aegean Sea over time. In any case, we know the neighbor, we know what policy is going on. From there on, should there not be a specific attitude towards this agreement which has been signed, finally sliding the country between Germany and Turkey? Mr President, in closing this short time, I would like to say that at last there must be a clear basis for working on the refugee question, a clear strategy to address this problem. Have you ever had a strategy since you took up your duties, Minister? I believe that the subsequent events prove that there was no strategy, just as there was no Ministry specific guidelines for dealing with the problem, a vertical hierarchy that says 'he will do it'. If, the non-genus, you were suddenly sick, who would replace you? All of us see a Mr Muzala, who is heroic in the way, moving into all the refugee's fire zones and trying to do certain things. Is this how the refugee issues of this tension and extent move in our country because of this state of affairs that has been created so long with the oligolia and the revolts of this government? There has also been no final body which has been set up so far, which will create a substantial, civilised, integrated crisis management. All these issues are important and the New Democracy, which I represent, has been accused of many issues because it has not exercised the opposition on other terms and reasons, if you were in the opposition, on the issue of refugees, because we really understand as a party of power that the country is under attack on an unprecedented issue, which others have created at other times and in other times. However, when this agreement with NATO comes to support it on the grounds that - listen to it, things that are not said by the primary students - NATO has those instruments with which it will see what is going to happen on the opposite coast, to activate the mechanisms and to warn against, when the last ship of the Port House has such instruments and when many of your own executives - I do not want to mention now names - stood in a negative mood in NATO's involvement - imagine what the New Democracy would have been in the government, that is another case - you realize that you are due - and you are not competent - to give some answers. I repeat and close: The New Democracy owes thanks to the General Staff and the officials of the Armed Forces, who have essentially undertaken to undo away the non-existence of the Greek state against an issue which has been agitating and - I fear - for a long time still will be agitating the Greek territory. I believe that the credit will be given and that these crowns and procedures will cease to exist through the Minister of State, Mr. Kammenos, who is in America, creates an alpine image of the Greek territory, when I would say - in difficult times with the presidential aircraft and with the accompaniment of twenty-six band of the Hellenic Navy, resources which he could at least give to the off-site officials of the Armed Forces, who are today away from their homes and families, and which, even for moral reasons, have not taken a single "draft". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u118	Before giving the floor to the last questioning Member from the New Democracy, Mr Georgiotta, allow me to say this: from the last speaker, Mr Davakis, but also from others, from Mr Kumoutsakos and, possibly, from Mr Panayotopoulos - I say this without reservation, I may not well remember - some issues have been raised. All four speakers addressed to the Bureau by incriminating on the fact that the specific question we are discussing today did not come at the time when it should have come to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u119	As a matter of fact, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u120	However, you are all old parliamentarians and you know how the questions are being discussed in accordance with Rule 135, in which order and that there are other parties in this Chamber, which have tabled timely questions, which are being discussed in a rolling way. Yours was filed in December, as recorded. It was 15th. He's in line now, and it's been discussed. To resort to and to blame - indirectly, if you will - the Bureau has not taken a timely decision so that this question can be raised - against you - for a debate, I am very sorry to have gone beyond certain limits. We have to explain. I give the floor immediately to Mr Georgioda. Come on, Mr. Georgioda.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u122	What do you want, Mr. Chiara? There's no reason...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u123	I'd like the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u124	You want to answer what I said?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u125	Yeah, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u126	No, no answer. There is a parliamentary representative who can give an answer if he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u127	The planning of the timely questions, as you know, since you have invoked our old age, actually gives us the possibility of at least two debates a week. Are there two conversations this week? This is the only reproach we can give.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u128	It was not as you give it now and it is not the Bureau's responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u129	That's her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u130	Here is the government, which can answer. It may be responsible for presenting or postponing timely questions. The Bureau shall monitor the procedure. It can interfere to the extent that you know to one point. We will not apologise for not coming by the ministers. I think that it was conquered - if I may say so - a process from December and from this point of view with regard to the weekly debate on topical and urgent questions. It's registered. Data is available to you if there is any objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u131	That is why, Mr President, the only debate that could be held would not be the order in which the question is being debated - and quite rightly you say it - but the fact that the topical questions are not discussed at the rate that, as you rightly pointed out, the oldest of us are well aware of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u132	Good. After the necessary explanations have been given, Mr Georgiotta you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to blame Mr Muzala. Speaking as a resident of Kilkis County, I want to thank him, because he's come five times to Kilkis, five times to Idomen, and at the moment we've managed the imperceptible dream, to have twenty-two thousand refugees and immigrants in the county. The county of eighty thousand permanent residents has at the moment that we are talking about twenty-two thousand refugees and immigrants in Idomeni, Hersso and Nea Kavala. Every time Mr Mouszalas arrived and left, not only were the refugees and immigrants who went to Idomeni, because there may also be an excuse for the way in which they went - but also the permanent structures that took place, one in Hersso and one in New Kavala, four thousand each. Mr. Muzalas, who really is a good recorder of the refugee problem, is a very good analyst of the refugee issue, perhaps for some people, on the result as I live it, as the Greeks live it, I think he is very poor in his results. I want to ask for something else from Mr. Muzala. If he comes back to Kilkis again, visit the square of Idomen. Whenever he came, he only visited the camp and did well, but at some point he had to visit the square of Idomeni. In this square of Idomen, the hundreds of thirty permanent residents gather each night and try to see how they solved the problem that happened to them, which they received, because there is no help from anyone. I will say something that sounds paradoxical, but it is true: this camp extends within four hundred acres into the cultures of owners, growers of Idomeni. Mr. Muzala asked the Mayor of Paionia three months ago to ensure that this damage is restored to farmers who show an excess of solidarity, an excess of tolerance, endurance against this situation that came to their doorstep. 28 000 euros were requested for their damage, because two years they cannot grow these fields. That money that has been requested for three months hasn't come to Idomeni. It's not just what didn't come to Idomeni. There has been something else lately, and that is why perhaps Mr Muszalas should not come to Idome once again. The latest statement by the Minister on the name of Skopje went beyond every limit, because it has hit and touched on the honors of these people, who, in the three hundred meters across the border, see their Skopje neighbours. And where they had too many reasons to laugh at us, they have one more now. This reason that people may not feel in this Chamber or in other parts of Greece is very serious for these locusts, who, with the humanity they have shown, have actually kept the country up. They're holding the country up today in Kilkis. There's no state. There are only organisations and organisations that are soaking down the Idomenian region. We don't know why. No one can today tell us how many non-governmental organisations are active in the Idomerian region. Nobody. And they don't always act with good motives. I keep my second word, Mr President, because I really want to get answers from the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. He was the last of the honourable Member's questions. I will now give the Minister the floor. Mr. Muzala, you have the floor for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to make a statement. I too recognise that this question has passed. It makes no sense, and you have rightly raised other issues in your places. The situation has changed. I would like to stress that I fully respect Parliament. I spent years in my life claiming the House to reopen. It is not, therefore, a question of lack of respect for Parliament. These are unsettled liabilities abroad alone. In other words, when I don't come to the House, I have a duty abroad. I want you to understand that. Not to mix it with other things. It makes sense. The opposition is of the opinion that the government is a bad government and must fall. It is a mistake, however, to incorporate everything and try to compress the refugee question there. It's a national matter. I understand that the New Democracy also recognises it as such, but many times - not all of them, not the President of the New Democracy - operates differently. I'm not considering whether this is done intentionally or not. I'm saying it's done objectively. I will tell you two - three things, which are either conscious mistakes or misunderstandings, or are misinterpretations which compress on this request, that the SYRIZA Government fall. You are opposition on a very reasonable request. Please don't compress this. We're gonna get in trouble.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u136	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u137	Let me explain. I listened to you with respect and I speak with respect as well. It is clear that we have disagreements. You say, "The fact that NATO has arrived and FRONTEX is a sign of failure". You say: 'This agreement does this'. It's a wrong interpretation. We didn't want NATO coming. NATO had to come when things arrived where it couldn't be done otherwise, when there was a huge blame game against Greece and FRONTEX. Because by blaming Greece for unreserved borders, they also blamed FRONTEX for taking the border with us. NATO is here. Did NATO have any effect to date?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u138	NATO hasn't done anything yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u139	Not to come the flows did not work, even though they are four or five days trying to act in business. But what did NATO have to do? That this blame game against Greece, "we can't do, we don't crack, we don't sew", was shot down and the burden fell on Turkey, which since at least September I am our Minister, is our main line, our main strategy. The flows are from Turkey and must be stopped in Turkey. Flows have not been reduced, but do not load NATO's possible failure to the government. Load her to NATO. That's what I'm trying to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u140	Is it NATO's fault?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u141	Well, it's obviously not the government's fault for this thing. NATO proves that this flow can only stop on the coast of Turkey and change the game of guilt, that it is our fault, Greece, the government of SYRIZA, which very much sees them and as soon as they come running and calling them "and welcome" and all these things. You say 'FRONTEX, one you want, the other you do not.' I have said this in this House and in that sense you must know. I have said that, not only did we want FRONTEX, but we asked for a thousand four hundred officers from FRONTEX and we always complained at each session because fewer people have come. We have said that, not only do we want the Coast Guard - which is also a charge when you enter FRONTEX "you do not want the Coast Guard" - but we want it under Greek domination. We've asked for a hundred Coast Guard ships and eight of them have come and we're always yelling. If you want to say we didn't succeed in coming, you're right. However, is this an inability of the government or is it a failure for Europe to deal with the issues that we have to resolve together and which I believe, in the end, will be resolved together? You say 'closed the Amygdaleza', 'you trimmed the Amygdaleza'. I think you are taking another way - and I do not say that as a category - issues which are ideological in nature. But we have no ideological prevalence on them. Because I'm able to know that you know very well that we didn't close the Almondsa. The Ammondaleza never ceased to be in operation. It has much less people, because when we came to the government - I was not a minister, but I was going as a doctor and helping out there - the Amygdale for economic reasons - which I might then blame you, but now that I am a minister, I do not blame you because I know the difficulties in disbursing money - it had been semi-destructed. Most of the containers, after an uprising, were destroyed. There were terrible food problems. But the Ammondaleza has never been closed. Corinth, pre-experienced centers, never shut down. They have fewer people inside, there are fewer months sitting, yes, but they've never been closed. And from these centres, the ones who left - which, after the bilateral agreement with Turkey, are not few - did not mean that they could solve the problem. In Idomen Square, and if I've gone, with the Mayor of Paionia and the centurion of Idomen and if we have good contacts. I would like to remind you that I am one of those who, in a very nice and irresponsible way, have dealt with the problem of Asylum the first time. Now we have a new problem. I'm trying to imagine what's going on in France with Calais. This is not a story in Parliament. In other words, no one goes out to tell the Minister of the Government that 'you have the Calais and you do it and you sew it anyway from here and there'. It's been seven years since Calais. I assure you that Idomen in the next month will be nicely and nicely dissolved. Could it be broken up earlier? Honestly, I don't know how to tell you. Probably, but these things don't work out with magic wands. These things take a year to convince him, and that's why we haven't built camping in Idomeni. Even though the TV comes out every day and the media and they say, "What are you doing?" ‘Where is the State?’ and all that. The state is side by side, it's a little further down, it's a little bit closer, so he can get them when they leave. The state is making places everywhere so that they have these few things we can offer and deserve. We have doctors. We're going clean water. We do not want to create 'good conditions'. I put it in quotes, because now I'm afraid and what TV can say and all that. The government doesn't want us to create the impression that we're going to build camping in Idomeni. It's gonna be a new Calais. It'll be a source of anomaly. I am sure that you agree with this, even if you think we could have acted earlier, which I do not think was the case, but I do not have to be right. We have never said 'opened and we are waiting for you'. Here, in an attempt to strike the government, you do this: you overestimate the government in a wrong way. It was not SYRIZA who brought violins, bullies, bands, orchestras, balloons and said "Come, please and we're waiting for you". They were States of Europe. They were parties with which you were together in Europe, at the same party. And I don't say that as a charge to those parties. It was the German Industrial Association report, which said we need a million two thousand immigrants and refugees. It was the report of the German trade unions who said the corresponding thing so that their pensions could be increased. If you think Muzalas can yell in here - I say Muzalas not to say any more names - and whatever stupidity I do, no matter what wrong I do, I will be followed by eight hundred and fifty thousand refugees, I think you are mistakenly appreciating my potential. You know that didn't happen. I think at least, even if you blame SYRIZA, you should say at the same time that there was this mismatch from Europe, which at first opened up and then closed into its panic. You have proceeded, you say in an agreement with Turkey, in an agreement with the European Union. To make a deal, they need two. One is us, the other signatory is the other. The agreement with which we came from the European Union is a good agreement. I will agree with you, and that is why I will ask for your support for this agreement and for the tuna to be lowered. It's a very difficult deal. You are absolutely right about that. It's hard, whatever government was up. The potential of the state mechanism, the problems of the state mechanism, you know them. You've been a government, you don't come to the void. So it's a very difficult deal. It is the best deal we could achieve and it is a result - you will not take it like insolence on my part - of the effort we have been making for many months now. What's the deal? It says, at last, that it is Turkey. It says, finally, that the problem must be solved in Turkey. And it finally gives a stop to illegal roads, a legitimate little road, but deterrent from passing through the Aegean and coming to Greece. What does the deal say, let's get this straight. Relocation, from Greece, is entitled to those who are in Greece until the agreement begins - I think so. Everyone else will leave with resettlement from Turkey, with a resettlement from Turkey. To go further than the deterrent role of this agreement, it says that any refugee or immigrant comes to Greece illegally since the agreement began, when he returns to Turkey, will enter the end of the line. That creates two things. It is good for our country, because it is a strong dissuasive message and although there are some issues and outstandings at the level of rights, my personal conviction, my personal opinion, but also the view of too many Europeans of serious law is that this is an issue that moves within the framework of legitimacy and we can discuss it again. So it gives a strong dissuasive message. It doesn't cut hope. It says that seventy-two thousand people in the first phase from Turkey will go to Europe. One issue, therefore, which exists for us as Greece and for me personally as a human left, which I have been struggling for years for the legitimacy of immigration and refugees in particular, the problem I have to solve when I say open borders - something with which I have never been drawn up but in poetry terms - is that an open border is to increase this road, which has been opened by the relocation from Turkey directly to Europe, not to close and relocate into the same situation, but to maintain and increase. I say, then, and I tell you that I am absolutely convinced that despite its shortcomings, this very difficult agreement that we are calling on to implement and which we all need to help to implement is a good agreement. It helps the country to succeed, puts Turkey in the position it should be, i.e. it makes it responsible, but not forbidding, makes it responsible by motivating and money, and tells her that "I will take the refugees slowly". Is there respect for human rights and obligations? My personal view, although some other lawyers may have a different view - as you know about human rights, opinions are divided into a lot of things - is that the way it is implemented will not take away from anyone. In other words, it will not remove from anyone the possibility of an individualised asylum request, it will not remove from anyone the possibility of protection if the asylum is provided. Here I would like to stress - and I would like you to understand this more in my personal view - that in recent years there has been a hypocritical trend - it is not about you, it is not about SYRIZA, so if you want it to be my badge - which says that the Syrians in Turkey are suffering, doing, sewing. That's not true. Over the past five years when Syrians are in Turkey - look, get your people to look - there is not one single complaint, for example from Amnesty International, which is now torn for the violation of rights. There is not one single accusation that there is a threatening violation of Syrian refugees' rights in Turkey. There are reports from the European Union law, not individually but as institutions, which show that it is a country of accession, it has improved its asylum law and it comes to what we call the European acquis, it gives refugees work, it gives them rights to education, and all that we are giving them UNHCR to ensure that they are done. Of course, if there are any rights violations, here we are. Each application will be judged individually. I'll finish, but I want to say two more things about security. We were very careful about security, and I think you know that. Seven hundred thousand people have passed from our place. We didn't have a spectacular increase in crime. Now these days, this month, we have about fifty thousand people slowly. We don't have that again. We're too careful. Our police are there, with the powers it has. Is it possible if we leave it uncontrollable, that we have small increases? Yes, there is. I'll agree with you. So we're not gonna let it go. But right now, we don't have one. Health problems so far we haven't had one. We may have, if we cannot shape chaos, that is to say, put people in places where they will be more easily controlled, under better conditions than in Idomeni. Sure. But we'll fix it. We're shaping the chaos. I'm going to talk about the Army, which you so honoured here today, and you did very well. We build about five hundred with a thousand places a day. We currently have thirty-six thousand seats. Unfortunately, the UNHCR programme, which had twenty thousand subsidized rents so far, did not pay off. And that is not a government responsibility. You know UNHCR has state status. It has so far given only a thousand four hundred positions. We are in agreements with them to turn it into something else that will become more efficient. I'll talk about finances and I'll be done. As far as finance is concerned, you know much better than I did - I was the first to find myself in front of this phase - that it is extremely difficult to disburse European programmes. It's terriblely difficult. I mean, they're selected. You can't take. He's got money for dogs. You, Mr. Kikilia, know that. We have a sum for dogs. Uh, we don't want dogs now. We want food. We can't take them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u142	There's the knowshow, Minister. There's a know-how.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u143	There's theknowhow. We make use of it and believe me, we make use of people from the European Union. We have no complex in this matter. We are interested in direct disbursement with you. We're not different in this thing. We have asked for experts from the European Union. They've come. We're trying to unlock them. We've made deals. We have Mr. Avramopoulos' help. It destroys it slowly, slowly. The flow of money will begin. It has already begun with its difficulties. Mr Panayotopoulos made a proposal in economic terms in relation to the municipalities. I think it is a very serious proposal. I'll give it to Mr. Haritsi. Yes, this is a very serious proposal. I don't know how to tell you whether or not we can.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u144	We want it in between.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u145	Yeah, but the financial services will see. And now we are voting for a law that we are trying to link local government to economic issues so that it can actually participate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u146	The regions and local authorities are key.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u147	The regions are 'key', local government is 'key'. You know we're trying to avoid fighting. With most mayors and regionals, we have a good relationship. But it is clear that this should also be legally assisted and I think it is this week that it will be coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u148	Do you know when the engagement of the Armed Forces will end, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u149	No, we don't know why there are uncertain factors. The involvement of the Armed Forces in the refugee situation in all the countries of Europe is always there and it is something that honors the country, it honors the Armed Forces, and I think we are in agreement here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u150	But that's not their mission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u151	I want to finish this. We had a strategy on this issue. We had the strategy, which eventually led here. It's a very difficult decision. In practical terms, we and Germany defended her. Germany is also expressed by the People's Party. Mrs. Merkel doesn't belong on the Left. They don't need any controversy. There are fields of litigation. Put all of us back on this difficult deal so that we can move on. Probably, at this stage is the only solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u153	(Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction): Mr President, can I make a few minutes of intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u154	How long, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u155	(Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction): For three, four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u156	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u157	(Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction): Ladies and gentlemen, how much political courage do we need, at least in this matter, to have a common place? Because the trial is not about a party or the government. The refugee test concerns the country. And because it's about homeland, there are issues that I think we can find a common place. I am therefore constantly listening to the word 'where the state is'. Ladies and gentlemen, in Idomeni there is an informal ghetto, as you know very well, with about 12 thousand people. Is there a problem that shows the absence of the state? The presence of the police with three hundred men on a 24-hour basis is in the absence of the state? Is the presence of the ERIC and the care and care on a 24-hour basis in the absence of the State? I have heard the honourable Member, Member of the region. How long you have to go, Mr. Colleague, to the area to say we don't know what the...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u158	Don't lie! Two and three times a week I'm going!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u159	Listen! I listened very carefully. Look, I raise tons, you know, very well. You're here uninformed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u160	You're aggressive!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u161	Are you serious, Minister? If that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u162	Yeah, seriously.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u163	Minister, do not address yourself personally. Make your location.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u164	As soon as we're done,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u165	You went once and didn't even know who you saw!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u166	Come on, Mr. Georgioda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u167	Don't raise the voice to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u168	When you lie, yes!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u169	You'll hear me. You're indiscreet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u170	You're nonexistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u171	Do not cause the MPs who are their region and who know better!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u172	Minister, continue your position. Do not address yourself personally, Mr Kurubli!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u173	You're here indiscreet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u174	What about me? You should go tell Idoed that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Georgiod, please don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u176	Call Mr Karamanlakis as soon as we're done telling you that the NGOs are seventeen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u177	How many are there? Take them off.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u178	Listen, sir. Be patient. Listen first and then step in. So the NGOs that are intervening there are seventeen. And not only that, he asked the inspector to have all the stalks that are active in the space. Therefore, do not say things that do not exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u179	You have no idea what's going on. We're not talking about the Hilton. They live in the mud. You've been there for the first time in all these months!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u180	You are unfair to yourself, you are unfair to the MEP's status and you are unfair to your party when you say things that do not echo reality. I'll give you a right to what you said, that the Kilkis County raises a very heavy burden. And you're absolutely right and I recognize it. And we discussed in Thessaloniki - if you did not know - with all the mayors of the region and the district managers, the other day, that there must be a fairer distribution of weight, that only a few municipalities should not lift the burden. Because that is to a certain extent the case and we need to recognise it. So you have to put your backs on, and we have to say to the mayors with whom we have a very good cooperation...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u181	They're twenty-two thousand refugees, what back should we put?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u182	Will you let me go?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u183	Mr. Georgiod, why are you interrupting?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u184	We have twenty-two thousand refugees!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u185	Sit down and do not address this tone to the Bureau! Please sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u186	Can't even talk about it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Georgiod, you have a right to secondary. You are one of the few honourable Members who have a right of dentistry in the sense that you have not spent time in your prototype. So when your turn comes, you will take the time to answer. Minister, please very much, you're finishing up. You asked for three to four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u188	If they don't let me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u189	I'm still giving you a minute, because you've been interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u190	We have therefore agreed with the mayors that there should be a fairer distribution of weight in order to make better management. Because it is another thing to have five hundred with a thousand people - and that is the objective - and it is another to actually concentrate in a county and in some municipalities this burden. You said about the field issue. Indeed, there is a problem and we are looking into it in order to find how to overcome bureaucracy and rigidities. Because they are indeed the fields of these people in a way that are now in a problem of cultivation because of the presence of these people. We have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, year after year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u192	There is the question of municipalities. You should know, since you tabled this question - and you did well - that no European fund provides for the strengthening of the municipalities. We're making a great effort to change that. However, because some municipalities actually raise this burden, the Ministry of Interior from own money will in these days strengthen all these municipalities and regions, because there is a problem, as has been quite rightly stressed. So I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that if you visit all these centres which have been made, you will recognize that the Greek state - let the government - the Greek state and the presence are very much offered. Because no state in Europe could raise this burden in such a short amount of time to restore so many thousands of people. And I'm closing up with the security issue. Again you are wronging the country when you talk about security issues. The country is the safest country in Europe. And the millions of tourists who come today and want to come to Greece show the trust that exists in Greece, otherwise they wouldn't come, I wouldn't do us a favor, no one is doing us a favor. And this is the work of both the police and all the competent agencies, which you have ruled, and we are now ruling. Well, this micro-policy every time you're not in the government, that you're all of the earth and the rest can't rule, it unfairs democracy, it unfairs everyone. Make the opposition you need to make, argue, there are so many issues. This issue is about the country's foreign projection. You know very well of bureaucratic stiffness in Europe. This is the first time, now you've learned it, haven't you? You've been ruling for years? We have not been discussing the great problem of absorption over the years, because of all these difficulties and the inconveniences that existed? Now did you find out? Is it possible to say such things when you know very well how difficult things are? Europeans themselves recognise that bureaucracy is so great that it makes it difficult to absorb all this money. And yet there is a great deal of effort to meet these needs, because the country has spent millions. As far as Europe has committed itself, you know very well that nothing has been done in its entirety, either on FRONTEX or on the port ships, whether here or there. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So I think there should be lower tone on this issue, let there be consultation, let there be suggestions, there should be criticism, but do not blame the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We are starting the circle of parliamentary representatives, as I said before, with the first parliamentary representative from New Democracy, Mr Kikilia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, thank you very much. Look, here we have a contradiction: the first Minister of Government, Mr Mousalas, has confined himself to an emotional type of personal texture and a statement of soul, which I will certainly comment on next. The second Minister of Government, Mr Kurublis, decided to attack colleagues. All seven colleagues documented, each in their area, tabled with figures and figures proposals, questions and findings of clear malfunctions or the absence of a state in terms of refugee immigration. Minister, you have condemned Mr. Georgioda. After sixteen months of governance, the Minister of Home Affairs responsible for immigration, that is, you, just the day before you went to Idomen. There is a total absence of the state in Idomeni. If you haven't been informed, I'll tell you. There is a doctor per shift of CEDEFOP, commonly two in 24 hours. The Greek police are not present. The Greek police are absent outside the camp. And she had a way of stopping flows on the river, on the highway, and so forth, before the problem was raised. The Greek Police, which you now fill with well, has been targeted on our governance for its way and role. Still, the kids you've got up there, you've got them without vaccination when you know there's a health bomb in the area. The Greek Army, if it had been involved in the rule of the New Democracy, would have fallen, would have dissolved the universe and society. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] This is Mrs. Catrivanu, my friend. Mrs. Catrivanou herself had asked questions about Amydaleza, speaking of cases of infinite beauty, by naming it as the worst possible place there is. The other parliamentary representative, Mr Mandas, likewise, a few days ago. Minister, obviously the Amygdaleza is closed. It was abandoned only to draw you to a real finding of what it has to do with the situation we are in today. Minister, the refugee situation could be a golden opportunity to reverse the international image of the country and the climate after a crisis which has multiplely defied us abroad. But instead of projecting these images of the self-sufficientness and humanism of Greek citizens, volunteers, doctors, police officers, soldiers, rather than projecting them, you have chosen a small and micro-political approach to the issue to keep the shame of Idomeni, just as Piraeus, in order to press, to have a reward on what? In managing the economic problem we are facing? The write-down of debt? Other exchanges? Before going up to Stepma, I was reminded by the Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr Hatzidakis, that in absorption, Mr Kurubli, for whom you spoke, we were third of the eighteenth, with praise from Mr Barozoz. And here we are talking for sixteen months about the obvious, which we have discussed many times with colleagues, a management authority which you cannot recommend in order to absorb the package envisaged for Greece, the EUR 350 million, the permanent, the status quo for immigration, the 60 million already paid up by Mr Avramopoulos and are sitting, as are the other financial facilities provided by the European Union. And that's because you took the managing authority and changed the funds from four to two. From the Ministry of Public Order you took it to the Ministry of Interior, you did it to the Ministry of Immigration, which is only a shell, you did it to the Ministry of National Defence, which cannot absorb funds from Europe, and finally - as we know - you have it to the Ministry of Development, where the officials do not take up this job because they cannot carry out it. So, once again after sixteen months, on this subject, we are on the air. Minister, you have made some remarks, while my honourable colleagues have spoken with evidence and examples. I must return to them in order to demonstrate the problem that exists. You have made a statement - a statement of soul on Identity - that you would not want to organise it better or under better conditions, if necessary, and you asked that this statement of yours should not be misunderstood by the media. I don't want to misunderstand your statement. I recognize her honesty. I told you that what we have been accusing you of all this time is confirmed. You did not have a strategy, you did not have a strategy, you did not have a plan, and with an unprecedented decision on a sovereign state, you opened our maritime borders. You have also opened up our land borders and considered a priori that all incoming people are refugees, so that after sixteen months the European Union considers that all incoming people are questionable. No refugee, until this has been established, not by the Greek authorities, who have been sovereign until now, but by European authorities or by Turkish officials with a blur, very difficult, difficult, hard for us, if you like, a way of agreeing, which remains to be implemented and seen. Minister, the flows were very different. The flow has been pressing for Italy. There were other routes for Europe and Greece and the Greek Government and the Greek Police and the Greek Port Authority and the Coast Guard and the border guards made a shocking effort, which had measurable results: seventy-two thousand incoming refugees and illegal immigrants until January 2014. After that date, the situation got out of hand. Do you know why? Why all the flows, all the modern smugglers, the whole system of hundreds of millions of euros got your own mark, your own government, that the country is a clear vine and everyone can come from here. That is why they came from the West, from Morocco and Algeria, through Turkey, to cross Europe, which is why they came from the East, and did not go through Bulgaria, of course, neither from the Baltic countries, from Afghanistan, from Iraq, which is why we have explained and warned you - the wars are waving - to God, do not go to such policies and rhetoric, which have to do with your ideals, because the country will pay them very expensively. That's when you sent us in. Then, perhaps, you were referring to some of us as extremists. At that time you thought it was a victory for left theorists against the status quo, the hard imperialism of Europe, NATO, etc. So let's see where we finally arrived after all these months? The Prime Minister said that there would never be a camp or space in Greece for fifty thousand refugees. Fifty thousand refugees and immigrants are already here. You don't even have the sensitivity to separate from these vulnerable groups, unaccompanied children, MEDIs, single-parent families, help and support. You are putting refugees on the same fate who have left their country who have been beaten by wars with economic migrants. So you are giving not only the right, by sending everyone to the northern border these months, to react to Europe as it reacted - it closed the Balkan corridor, every tonne has warned you - but you have all dragged us into this agreement together. This agreement is not a natural disaster. She's not a godsend. He didn't come all of a sudden and fell over our head. It's a result of your policies too. Obviously, it is also a result of the wars in Syria and Iraq. Apparently, it's also the result of ignition in the area. Obviously, it is also the result of the pressures that the country is undergoing. These pressures, however, were also accepted by other countries. You created a full over Factor for Greece, making it the easiest way across Europe for these people who want to go to the north. And we pay that dearly. Not fifty thousand people, as Mr Kefaloyannis said, but very briefly, 100 000 refugees and migrants will be in the country. There are no structures to be hosted. Obviously you have not given the tools to local government (a) and (b) level, to be able to cope. I would remind you that this is how you were saved and saved in the summer, with the first and second degrees of local government and, yes, I recognize it, and with the non-governmental organisations, Minister. That is the reality and the truth. The state was behind developments on our islands and inland. Except that we have come to the point that non-governmental organisations are now operating uncontrolled in the country as a state in a state. This is the reality in Idomeni. This is the reality on our islands. This is the reality in Piraeus. That is something we cannot accept. The Prime Minister said, then, that he did not want funding at the time, a few months ago, out of the fifty thousand. Now, you see we're still looking to find the way and the tools to absorb it. If you were asked, Mr. Avramopoulos, the Commissioner, "be ready with a plan and a plan of what money we need, in what structure, per the municipality and periphery, what is the equalisation?" would he know that you are not, Ministers. You're not ready, because you don't know yourself. Because it is'seeing and doing' your policy. Because it is permanently someone else's fault for your own mistakes, for your own failures, for your own unfinished policy. It was Mrs. Merkel's fault. Now, it's no longer Mrs. Merkel's fault. Now, it's the Austrians' fault. Let me remind you, in passing, that Austria has taken ninety thousand refugees to its territories and already has them. And the agreement is obviously satisfying us with nothing. It does not satisfy us in any case and it fills us with doubts and fears as to its continuity and its implementation. Why, simply thinking, we realize that relocation has not worked for the country. They're still here, all those forty-eight thousand people. The results are poor. Europe has voluntarily committed itself, its countries for the seventy-two thousand. That, Minister, means they don't have to take them. And when the number of seventy-two thousand arrives, it will be re-examined. Sooner or later, if Germany has taken what it should and can no longer, Austria can, likewise, France 30 000, the Baltic and Balkan countries do not want to take, the agreement will be in the air. Greece is in a humanitarian crisis. There are security issues for the Greek population, for Greek citizens. That's obvious. There are safety issues which, if combined with other European countries, have created a problem in our country. I'm welcome to stop here because from my former post as a Minister of Public Order, I'm not allowed to say any more. A health bomb is being placed for the country of maximum degree. CEDEFOP went to Idomeni a few days ago, just before the Minister. And Mr. President of CEDEFOP got to inoculate a child himself. Is that real politics, or is that communication? You have brought us into communication. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. You have flammed us in communication, when we lack the political substance, the plan, the administration, the strategy and the policies that have been implemented. The political ammunition of idealism failed and went bankrupt. Other things are being asked. That is why we ask you, Minister, not personally, not in your character and your humanism and the capacity of the doctor. We honor this. It is another issue, but it is another matter that you and all the co-legislative government ministers should be able to administer. I'll come back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u195	Mr. Psychogios, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, I would like a relative tolerance of time. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this topical question, which comes at a point where nothing but time-consuming is, as the colleagues of the New Democracy have admitted, actually accuse the Government of ominating its responsibilities for specific things, to which we have now been overshadowed. She blames her for absence of specific positions and reception centres, for possible marginalisation of the country from the Schengen area. Where, ladies and gentlemen, did you draw this information about the Schengen area from when it has never been heard from official or institutional lips? And those who participated in some interparliamentary sessions know that not only did this matter arise, but it was also a question of strengthening Schengen with other Members. And you are talking about a lack of an integrated return strategy, about a delay in supplying goods to refugees and so on. But, as I said before, the data today is different. So far, in the past few months, we have had an average of thirty thousand passing people in the country. But with the closure of borders, new entrants have been added to them and new entrants. According to the official figures of the government today, people in our country - the vast majority of refugees - are fifty thousand four hundred and eleven. And the total number of reception and hospitality places is thirty - seven thousand - sixty, while in the next few days they are expected to increase, as they have already been found and are preparing facilities available for accommodation throughout the territory. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are all witnessing the over-representation that this government is doing as much as possible, by paraphrasing something that has been heard before - in order to deal with this exceptional situation and not to create a problem. This is something that one cannot question, because there is a full coordination of all the co-legislative ministries, which are planning to deal with the phenomenon, finding and preparing hosting spaces in cooperation with the Army, as has been said, local government and the Church. In fact, in recent weeks, a national coordination centre for the management of the refugee crisis has been set up with seven ministries and political coordinators, the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Dimitris Vitsa, and yesterday a Special Government Council was set up under the Prime Minister to ensure the correct and fair implementation of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey following the last summit. At this point it is indeed important to mention the presence of several NGOs and volunteers, but also of solidarity in the field and to help improve the living conditions of refugees. Also touching and hopeful is the unprecedented solidarity shown by the Greek people, who too much the dangers of some and the concerted effort to pass on fear, racism and xenophobia, now stands, at the most critical hour, next to these devastated people and offers them simple things. In all this we wonder about one thing: What is the New Democracy's position on the refugee issue? Since you are criticising us about how we are dealing with the problem, you should present us with some documented and detailed counter-proposal. But that has not so far been the case, at least in detail or in concrete terms. On the other hand, whether you are following developments as unowned viewers or vaguely stating what you would do. And you're using vague things, because probably - Mr. Kikilis, of course, said a lot about it more specifically - some of your executives might not dare to say publicly what they really defend. When one moves the finger on the situation in Idomeni, with what problems obviously and the difficult situation that has been created there, what does the Greek Government propose to do? Should he use the police and tear gas on young children to dismantle the landscape? In other words, what rules is this subject based on in terms of international and refugee law? The presence of CEDEFOP is there, even poorly, and there have also been distributions of brochures for the refugees who are there and two information points to be persuaded to be transferred to hosting centres. Also, when you shake our finger on the islands, what exactly do you mean? Maybe, instead of investigating and rescuing, we should return these people back, not say anything worse and tell us that we are plundering? Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Government, taking into account the positive aspects of the recent summit agreement, should also aim to address the existing legal and administrative issues arising from it and to ensure the rights of asylum seekers with respect for international law, the Geneva Convention and the principle of non-refoulement, as has been done so far. In addition, please refer to the text of the question on the lack of an integrated return strategy. You mean closed-ended detention centres, that is, as they worked in the previous period, like prisons with poor structures and living conditions, where immigrants and refugees were held there for eighteen months and upwards, without actually committing a crime. And that is the shame, ladies and gentlemen, not something that Mr Kumucaco has heard. The operation of the IMO was almost nonexistent in these detention centres. Unfortunately, the pre-regulatory centres are also operating today, mainly because of the exceptional and forced conditions that have been created. It should be noted, however, that despite the shortcomings in asylum services and structures, detention no longer lasts longer than six months. The IMO operates more quickly for those who voluntarily declare return, while their number remains at a very low level than in the past. Finally, there is social control by local MPs, organisations and structures of solidarity, which, in cooperation with the relevant Ministry, monitor the living conditions in detention centres. The policy you have pursued and you are proposing, ladies and gentlemen, was a completely wrong policy because, on the one hand, it concealed the problem under the carpet and, on the other hand, it has never highlighted the fact that this is a purely European issue. After all, it was not effective because the SYRIZA - ANEL Government was called upon to manage flows that had been calculated by approved international organisations. Mr. Kikilia, you mentioned to a certain extent that the flows were manageable. However, what I am tabling in the Minutes shows that, on the basis of the UN High Commissioner, the flows would rise considerably for 2015. [[At this point Mr Georgios Psychogios presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, it would be interesting to state directly before the National Representation what some officials have said directly to you today, either for pur-factor or for "opening up and waiting for you". So, what does this thing mean? Does it mean that the search and rescue at sea, as well as the treatment of refugees in open hospitality centers and not in closed-style centres, are they Pull Factors? That's a good answer. Ladies and gentlemen, at this critical moment the blind opposition to a government that is struggling every day to deal with this unprecedented humanitarian crisis is abundant. At this critical moment, it would have been appropriate for the New Democracy to have directed these questions towards Europe, on the unilateral actions which, despite the agreed ones, have taken EU Member States. In this connection is the question tabled by the SYRIZA MEP, Dimitris Papadimoulis, where it appears that only nine hundred and thirty-seven relocation posts have been covered so far by the twenty-eight Member States. And it may be accurate that ninety thousand have been taken, but there is an agreement here, which is not being observed. They've said they'll take over some people for relocation. But it's not up to you. Eight countries have not accepted even a refugee so far, making the situation particularly worrying. In conclusion, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the truth is that everything is political and that means that, on the one hand, we must take a concrete position with a specific proposal at every juncture and, on the other, that this proposal should be ideologically charged. As far as the first one is concerned, I have explained before and before that the New Democracy does not have an integrated proposal, insisting on the unsuccessful and short-sighted recipe that followed, based on the repression and non-claiming of Europe to bear the burden on it. As for the second, it is clear that ideologically in this particular and other issues it divides us a great deal. We will defend the individual and social rights of weaker social groups, such as refugees and immigrants, on the basis of international law. Besides, today - and I end up with this - it is the World Day against Racism, which we have to prove every day. In this difficult way you should contribute rather than even take advantage of issues such as the refugee or a referral backwards of a minister who has gone beyond his role to do micropolitical and consciously - or unconsciously - in this way to activate the xenophobic reflexes of Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Burnedos is doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and two educational sessions from the 3rd General School of Drama. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Cassidyris, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u199	I will begin with World Day against Racism, denounce the only racism that exists in Greece at the moment: Racism against the Greeks! Because when the House and this foreign loan shark government have been working on what will happen to illegal immigrants for months and how more illegal immigrants will enter Greece, the Greek people in fact have been miserable, frustrated and faced with a miserable situation. So the only racism that exists in this country, racism that only one national government of the Golden Dawn can fight, is racism against the Greeks! And it is a sad phenomenon and an indication of the anticipation of the present state, of the disgraceful co-government, that at the moment it is still in the cabinet, there is a factor that sold out Greek history and committed national treason! Because the granting of Macedonia's name to foreign forces is a national betrayal! So in the shame of history, we give you. We did not say by chance that when the Golden Dawn comes to things, when there is a real Greek government in Greece, such factors as Muzala and all those who sell Greece will deport them in Skopje. Because this must be the fate of every traitor. Because blood has been spilled for centuries, not just for our national sovereignty, not just for the name of Macedonia, not just so that Greece is not an Islamic country. Four hundred years of struggle, rivers of blood were spilled to leave the Islamics, to leave the Muslims, to leave Greece, to leave these hateful symbols and this hateful religion from our country. There have been rivers of blood that you have not respected, and today you are trying to Islamize our country, to sell our national laws, to make Greece an Islamic country, to assign national sovereignty, to assign Macedonia's name. National treason won't pass! The Golden Dawn is not going to pass and the People's Association is committed to this. I saw, in fact, that a panic had already prevailed, that the Guardian, in the background, had also been mobilized, so that there would not be any incidents, not to attack on this factor that committed these gratuities. Although many citizens tell us - and me personally and other Members from the People's Association - that 'the ones who do this disgrace must shake them to the ground one day', we choose...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u200	Mr President, it's not a field in here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u201	Sit down and don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u202	Are the people telling him to come and beat us? What things are said?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u203	SYRIZA got an attorney from New Democracy! Let's laugh!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u204	What are these things? Take a seat, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u205	Mr President, what will happen now? Am I going to put up with every fool, every disgusting person and every humiliated person interrupting me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u206	Don't create a topic now...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u207	So I keep going. We will shake you not on the ground, as citizens say, but on legality, because there have been very specific crimes with illegal immigration, on behalf of those appointed and represented by the ministers: malicious abuse of power, malicious fraud at the expense of the public, malicious false attestation at the expense of the public. All this imposes penalties on isobics, because all those who enter Greece - let us also refer to some legal matters, even though the Greek people today do not require legal advice, but it requires solutions and political clearance - do not even apply for asylum. Therefore, they are automatically illegal immigrants - take note of the term 'broken immigrants' - as the decision of the summit you signed stipulates. So the term Illegal immigrant concerns all of them, the absolute majority of those in Greece today. It should not, therefore, be transported to the infamous hospitality areas. It's illegal. It's a malicious abuse of power to waste millions of euros of public money to feed and house luxury illegal immigrants. And for this crime, when the Golden Dawn takes over the rule of this country, the perpetrators will pay. From there on, the New Democracy's question is a parody question. SYRIZA and New Democracy are fighting. There's a shred of who'll give most to illegal immigrants. To be precise here, there is a decision by the Government of New Democracy since 2014, which is now being implemented, for what is being done in hosting areas, in these famous structures, which are not Hilton. Wrongly has been said by the executive minister. It's a Four Season hotel, if I read what you're providing to illegal immigrants. And I'm referring to Four Season because it's where Kammenos was eating steaks and paying 800 euros for the steak. What does this New Democracy Act, which is currently fighting with SYRIZA about who is the one giving more comfort to illegal immigrants? Recreational and information activities, sport, dance, entertainment and educational excursions for illegal immigrants. Today it was for some children to go to Brussels from the Greek Thrace, some students at the expense of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, at the expense of our MEP General Conradinos, and intervened the abstract Ministry of Education and forbid Greek girls from going to Brussels because the Golden Dawn would pay the costs. It is the same state that pays us, from what the relevant law tells us here, illegal immigrant excursions and also provides spaces for household washing and drying for the washing and drying of the guests' personal clothing. Tell me how many Greek houses there are today laundry and dryer. And yet you give all this to foreigners who illegally enter Greece. I will close by putting the solution to the major problem of illegal immigration in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Kasidiaris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is the proposal for a law tabled by the People's Association - Golden Dawn to stop illegal immigration. If this law is passed - and one day this law will be passed - two things will be done and solved in just one day the problem. First, there will be a peculiar offence to illegally cross Greece's borders. Anyone who does this crime will not go to hot spots will go to prisons where he will also carry out public works. Second, life for traffickers, slave traders. And because I spoke of slave traders, here are the related documentaries with a State of New Democracy, a New Democracy official named Prevezaan, who was a candidate mayor of Aetolakarania, a hug with a president of the New Democracy and other MPs, such as Carraguni, who was arrested for slavery. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Kasidiaris, presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Only with the solutions proposed by the People's Association - Golden Dawn will illegal immigration be solved and Greece will again be able to belong to the Greeks, not to become the Greeks a minority within our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u208	Mr Theocharopoulos, Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Independence of PASOK - DIMAR for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u209	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have just heard a nationalist delicacy, a preaching of nationalist and racist hatred. Here all the wings of this House are democrats, citizens and MPs who have come to defend basic rights and we will not allow the Greek Parliament to hear what has been heard here a moment ago, the preaching of hatred from the Golden Dawn. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today, in fact, we are facing a double crisis. Amid a deep economic and social crisis, we are faced with the humanitarian crisis. The image in our country is nothing but honorary, in our islands, the border, but also in the mainland. The question is, of course, at the summit on 17 December and it makes sense, since it had been held three months ago. And then I would like to stress that the major weaknesses and the delays that still exist in the issue of managing migration flows to the European Union have been recorded. In the period up to now, developments have again confirmed, unfortunately, our concern that the Greek Government has been facing for a long time, all last year, with great urgency, and there have been delusional and sloppy treatment. Following the conclusion of the crucial summit on 18 March, it seemed to be understood that the problem is common and European. Because what today just looks like an opportunism and an indifference of some states will soon veil the veil of ignorance that covers the problem and from behind will appear the hideous face of nationalism. In our country, the number of displaced refugees is close to 50 000. It is therefore clear that the new relocation decision of seventy-two thousand refugees has two aspects: the positive one, because there is a commitment to relocation, but also the negative one, if we remember that a few months ago in previous sessions, the relocation of sixty thousand refugees had been decided and that figure was considerably reduced. The recent decision is a small positive step, but let us not be illusions. It does not in any way recommend the common immigration policy that the European Union urgently needs. So there is no longer any room for the European Union to move on to refugee with such slow steps. It is not possible for the refugee flows to be massive and for decisions to be delayed to deal with a fait accompli. The Session's decision on many points is simply a wish, as there is no way of guaranteeing its implementation. You said that too, Minister, that it is a difficult decision to apply. It is not clearly predicted whether, when and how to relocate refugees from Greece to the countries of the European Union, so that many thousands of people are in danger of being caught in our country. This is a particularly serious and complex problem that Greece has to deal with for an indefinite period of time. It contains humanitarian, operational, problems regarding the living conditions of all these people, institutional problems, but also problems relating to internal and external security. Today, as we have just heard from reports, Mr Tsipras and his Government have asked him for intervention, Fervei, the Commission's special coordinator for Turkey, to deal with the refugee flows that are increasing today, despite the agreement of the summit. We would like in your denture to inform the House if it were true. I'd like to stand on something else. The Greek Prime Minister at the press conference in Brussels said that if there are countries that do not want to participate in the distribution of refugees, then they should contribute financially. It is another statement showing the urgency and carelessness with which it is being dealt with so seriously. And if most countries want to contribute to economic aid rather than take refugees, what will Mr Tsipras do? Recently, if I am not mistaken, you said that our country cannot accept all the refugees and become a Lebanon of Europe, just to get financial aid. Right. It didn't change anything, I imagine, from those statements. So instead of Mr. Tsipras making the referee and keeping equal distances between the Minister of National Defence Mr. Kammenos and you, at least he should consult these earlier statements that you have made on this matter. And I tell you this because we have the others that have come out these days in relation to the nationalist partner of the government and what they have heard about the Navy band and all that of course needs to be explained on his trip to America. So the Greek Government must wake up from the ever - falling lethargy and take initiatives. It has agreed on rapid asylum procedures, which it is not ready to implement. European aid in this area must be immediate and concrete, and the cooperation of the Greek authorities is impeccable. The Greek Government must therefore, beyond the vigilance of the same state structures, take the lead in the immediate organization and cooperation of all actors. He has not done so far, with painful results. The situation in Idomenis is a disgrace both for the European Union and for our country, Greece, and we must be clear about that. There the total absence of the state, which we have seen, is unjustified. This gap is being covered by the Greek citizens, who, although afflicted by the economic crisis themselves, find the strength to stand up to the refugees. So the government must decide: they will either transfer all refugees and immigrants to other organised reception centres or provide the elementary services and even temporary residence conditions on the ground. Of course we hear government officials, Mr. Vitsa, a few days ago, saying: 'What does opposition want? Shall we use tear gas?’ We heard about it a while ago. Oh, no! We can imagine that there is no chaos or wood for the government. What we are calling for, the real, effective, is coordination for the protection and transport of refugees to the hospitality centres. What else, in other words, must happen in the country but also at European level, so that it can be understood that a comprehensive, coherent plan is needed? I would therefore ask the Minister responsible to tell us accurately how the government will deal with this from now on and meet the relevant deadlines and obligations. We, as you know very well, have tabled proposals to all actors to deal with the problem. We visited the islands, Viktoria Square, Idomeni two weeks ago where we saw the situation closely, which is why we are telling you this. We met the Minister, with you, on a timely basis at the beginning of November, and then I asked for a national immigration policy council. You were committed to a intergroup committee, which was not done. If it had been done, he would've caught up with some things. That is why I am putting it to you now, and it is crucial, because you committed yourself to that meeting at the beginning of November and in public. We saw Mr Avramopoulos in Brussels, interventions were made, handed over by the head of the Democratic Integration, Mr Gennamas, the proposals twice in Brussels at the meetings, at the recent session of the European Socialists and Democrats, twice at the Summits, twice at the meeting under the President of the Republic, we contributed to the common national line on the refugee clearly. And I would like to stress that the New Democracy did not contribute for the first time to this common national line and the Centrons' Union did not contribute to the joint national line in the communication on refugee. Because it is clearly a matter of national understanding. You also stressed that, but your Minister did not listen to you, Mr Muzala, did not listen to you by Mr Kurublés, who came here and actually attacked such a matter in a way which did not remind us of the needs that we currently have on this issue, the refugee issue and indeed the responsible attitude that we have to take from now on. And the responsible attitude does not appear either with the statements made by the Interior Minister in the previous period for Diabetes and Idoquius. So we hope that the decision of the meeting will not be another endless decision, it will not be left on paper. Turkey is now committed on the basis of the decision on specific actions, which should be implemented immediately. The most likely is that they will not, at least in their entirety, but if they are implemented, they will not resolve the refugee problem neither for Europe nor for Greece. Turkey's seeming retreats in relation to the original plan can be retabled at the negotiating table soon, so we must be ready as a country, because we will see them again in front of us. Of course, it must not be the case at previous meetings that the decision is being violated unilaterally by certain countries. Europe must find a way to overthrow unilateral actions that will actually blow all European decisions into the air. Throughout this process, the government must be vigilant, otherwise the consequences of the humanitarian crisis for both our refugees and our fellow citizens will be painful. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is a matter of national importance, it needs seriousness, responsibility and national co-operation. We, in this way, have worked all this time, we are operating today and will be operating from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, too. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u211	The debate on this question comes on tomorrow of the agreement at the European Union Council, which is nothing but a temporary compromise with harmful effects which government triumphs cannot cover. We have, for example, the closure of the northern borders as a decision now. We now have de facto Greece as a'storey of souls', as a country of capture of tens of thousands of refugees and migrants, and any return and re-promotion through the bureaucratic procedures envisaged makes this almost impossible. Of course, this decision and any measures accompanying it will not block - and you know it very well - the refugee and migration wave. Just the only thing he's going to do is raise the slaves' truffles. On the substance of the matter, this decision is brutally inhibiting the Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees. Why, then, all these triumphs of the government? It is, in essence, the quintality of a deeply deadlocked policy and, of course, even though the other parties criticise it, there is the decision of the Conference of Political Heads, with which the JRC had disagreed, which commits them to implementing this policy. These developments do nothing more, Mr Ministers, rather than create favourable conditions, in essence to form the butter in the bread, so that Nazism, racism and fascism can further reap. And you see the results in the other countries of the European Union, with the huge increase in the far right and fascist parties that exist in recent times. If nothing else, and today's position of the representative of the neonazi structure of the Golden Dawn does nothing but confirms that the womb that breeds Nazism, fascism and racism is the very capitalist system. From this point of view, we can only comment on the deep-seated hypocrisy that governs you for humanity, for dealing with the humanitarian crisis, not on your own, but on the whole, but on the part of the government and the other parties that had government responsibility in the past period and which you, as the government, continued on the same lines as they had drawn up. In what respect is there a huge hypocrisy? From the point of view of the refugee and migration wave here is the result of the imperialist interventions by NATO, the Americans, the European Union, of competition with other forces, such as Russia. It is the result of the exploitation by the monopolist groups of rich production sources and human souls. It's a result of the very capitalist barbarism. You, these multinational imperialist organizations serve them, you are a member, you are actively involved. You are giving the territories and airports to NATO to continue the bombing, surveillance. You brought NATO to guard Greece's maritime borders. Where and how far has such an approach been, when the NATO Secretary-General himself has declared that the Aegean is a single operational area? What does that mean? That in essence it legalises Turkey's claims in the Aegean Sea, creating multiple risks to the issues of the territorial integrity of our country. You are not the government - but also the other parties - that you have accepted the European Union's policy, anti-immigration policy? Didn't you and the other parties implement the Schengen Treaty? Aren't you and the other parties the ones implementing and signing up again to the recent Council decision of the summit in Dublin's infamous decision on refugees and immigrants? In this respect, therefore, these factors, the European Union with its policy, NATO with its policy, not only are not a factor in tackling the problem, but instead they are the factor in its deterioration. So, in other words, what did you do? You have got the wolves guarding the sheep and you say that an effective policy! We, the JRC, have a completely different policy on this issue, and it could not be done differently. The JRC's position is that we need to dismiss the European Union and NATO in these policies, which are the factor of worsening the immigration and refugee problem, and within this framework of indiscipline and disobedience to these policies, of course, we need to form all these conditions for the direct transfer of refugees to the premises of destination. Secondly, the creation of suitable temporary, part-staying facilities for the State itself - not NGOs - with interventions from the human housing, accommodation, living and health care areas for the temporary period until the papers are given and can go to the rest of the places of destination. From this point of view, if something is to be proud of, it is for the solidarity shown by the working class and people towards this world, which has not yet been able to grow - despite all the ambitious efforts - the egg of the snake, fascism and racism and despite the total absence of the state in terms of its human conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. The party's parliamentary representative has the floor. The river, Mr. Barriottas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, refugee is a very difficult and very big problem. I think there is no doubt about that. It is also a national problem, and that is why I will try to start from what we are most likely to be united and to which we agree. So, yes, the main responsibilities for the refugee are obviously outside the border. They go beyond the government and this country, and that's right. It is because of the crisis, the war and, unfortunately, Europe also has responsibilities, not only the major powers outside it. Also, yes, we have a wonderful people who exaggerated themselves and, despite the efforts of various extremes, refused to enter the game of extreme right and hostility against refugees and tried, overcoming themselves in the crisis, to help them. And that's right. That's all right. It is also right that it is a national problem. I have already heard Mr Kourublis invoking patriotism among the Greeks and the Parliament, in fact in an invoking that we should cover the problem and leave it under the carpet as far as responsibilities are concerned. But, as far as national and patriots are concerned, patriotism imposes, at least, on this Delegation and not just on open debate, on the labelling of errors and problems. It does not impose any disobedience or pensioning behind a banner, without any questions. So we can only point out together with all that no one can hide behind what I mentioned earlier, namely the national crisis, its supranational problem and so on. The way the refugee has escalated inside the country, the way we have led to the trap of Idomeni and the refugee camps on Greek territory for the next two years is, clearly, the choice and responsibility of the government or inability, if you like. However, there is clearly a national parameter and it is what we need to see. This, above all, must be discussed and dealt with. The refugee crisis is not something that happened. It's not a natural disaster. It did not rain refugees in Idomeni. It is a result of certain movements both abroad and internally. The story didn't create it, Minister, if I may. The story is created by you at this stage. Your government and you personally, by the way. The story is written by governments and peoples. It's nothing neutral and abstract, if I may.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u214	People write it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u215	He's another school.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u216	Clearly, I'm another school. The Government therefore implemented a specific policy during 2015. It opened the border, leaving seven hundred thousand refugees, in essence, to cross the country. He let the circuits move the refugees, as they know well, by ticket from Mytilini to Idomeni. That was the situation, which we have watched evolve over this whole period of time. And that's exactly the main and heaviest responsibility. There was consciously absent. By invoking humanitarian favor and humanitarian reasons, he was basically making sure that he was away from the problem. He watched a flow of refugees within the country, without interfering, trying to intervene to a minimum. The less it could be. So he had two benefits. A strong share of SYRIZA was ideologically and politically covered, those who believe - and are their right, of course - at open borders, etc. Some of them were politically covered. We are hearing - and I would like to hear something about it - that there were too many of them covered by the NGOs. It's a question. I don't adopt it, but things start writing in the press. The government has essentially worked on refugees both internally and abroad. He used them as a policy instrument, as people crossed Greece. That's what he did. The government thought that, promising hot spots, negotiating with Europeans and doing nothing at all, transferring the problem from Mytilini and Rhodes to Idomenis, was making time. He didn't even realize what was coming. At least some, like Mr Muzalas, began to suspect it when threats to the country's exit from Schengen began. Then we began to understand that perhaps this policy could lead to a dead end. This isn't the first time. The government has a problem. It does not understand European awareness. It was not understood by the capital controls, it was not understood by the closure of borders. This has led to one - not to say debacle - diplomatic defeat, the diplomatic defeat of the closed borders which has been imposed on us. It wasn't a deal product. It was necessary to close the border by the north and then we had to agree and see what we would agree. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President. That's how we ended up in Idomeni. Now, mud. I dare not think of what will happen in two months' time when the heat will begin in the anhydrous landscape of Idomeni, in the Efthymopoulou camp in Larissa and throughout the country in facilities completely unsuitable for the long-term hospitality of refugees either in the unfortunate Idomeni camp or in the camps that are built urgently in the way they are built today by the army. So we have reached the triumphs of the closure of Amygdaleza, Dahau, Amygdaleza, and the self-determination of some within the country to self-determination protectors of humanism. Only them. All the others are in favour of drowning, as if there are only two extremes, open borders and drowning. By the way, a state fails when it applies force. We are in favour of fairness and openness. A well-functioning state does not apply violence either to Exarchia, to its islands or to its borders. This is another story. There are many things to do between drowning and abolishing borders. So now they are celebrating a little - very much the same people, or at least the same political party - because they are not the same people perhaps - for the country to be transformed into a large, peculiar Amydaleza, because that is what this is about. Fifty thousand people were trapped in the country. When we proposed much softer measures to control flows in May, when we were talking about the need for Turkey and others to be pressed, where is the government's policy since September, Minister? At that time, we received designations of the 'right-wing' type, 'humans'. Those who have led fifty thousand people trapped in Greece and fifteen thousand of them in the mud of Idomen, what is it? Honestly, I can't find any characterizations if we get into the ethics of the matter. With two words, the agreement is attempting to close the corridor, not so legitimately, says the UNHCR as many others. He's staying to see it. But they certainly close Europe's borders. For a Europeanist like me, this is a disappointing move, it is a disappointing development. He closes them by leaving us out. We are in a 'grey zone', homogenised with Turkey essentially outside Europe. For the first time, for thirty years, the basic principle of our foreign policy has been called into question: our eastern borders are Europe's borders. For the refugee and only for that - thank God, for the moment - it is not. Europe's borders are northerly. Skopje is in Europe, we are in the east, and that is where the government is responsible. The Prime Minister said a few months ago that the sea borders were not guarded, that they could not be guarded. The Minister of National Defence doesn't keep them, neither the east nor the north. We saw Net Monday fifty photojournalists and at least two European channels follow a thousand five hundred people who entered, got out of Skopje and no one was interested. We didn't see any Greek uniforms, just some policemen who told them to watch from a distance. Otherwise, the problem is the name of the northern neighbour for the Minister of National Defence and his sensitivity is only exhausted to it. We don't guard the border, but the name matters. This is also an important factor. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall therefore conclude with one question I raised from the outset. I'll take another thirty seconds if you'll excuse me. I said about the NGOs. It sounds like things. I don't want to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u217	Mr Barriotta, you've been talking nine minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u218	I'm done with this. I need thirty more seconds. I do not want to degrade the work of the people who have really been battered in this case. However, Mr Giannopoulos from the "Smile of the Child", for example, said that in Mytilini he is a hundred and eighty-four NGOs financed under African conditions. The question is: do we have lists? I can find out tomorrow who the NGOs are, who they have, who they finance, where the money they get? It's a huge question. As far as we all understand, the need and practice of the government are constantly expanding funding and the use of non-governmental organisations. I think there is a great deal of transparency in how non-governmental organisations deal with and manipulate the problem. I would like to finish with what I said at first, that it is a very big problem for refugees and it needs calm solutions. I conclude, therefore, by keeping what I have heard coming, that the Prime Minister recognised that the agreement is an extremely difficult agreement and that he pointed out - even late, in my opinion - that the major, bet from now on, is the complete mobilisation of the state mechanism at all levels to deal with the crisis. It's not done. We hope that from now on it will be done in the way it has to be. Thank you for the time too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, too. Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Papachristopoulos, has the floor. Please, too, for time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. There's a proverb that says whoever's out of the dance, a lot of songs know. I do not think that the size of this crisis is more than twenty-eight countries in the European Union - which can also dynamise its unity - and that it could be overcome by a country alone, such as our own, which at the same time has an economic crisis. I want to remind you of the facts. Syria, for those who do not know it, has twenty-three million people. Today, their homes remain around seven million, while another seven are close to the border in Syria, ready to leave. Around five and a half million is in Jordan, Lebanon and a large part - around three million - of Turkey. And around the two million have been gone for four years and is outside Syria, except for the three countries and outside Greece. This is a reality and I must not say this with a tone of criticism: it does not go away and nobody leaves home because the German industrialists said that we need a million thousand hands, because Merkel said this or because then Minister Christodoulopoulos said the other one. I want to remind you that the jihadists atrocities have lifted the whole planet. They didn't only lift up Europe, but the whole planet. When the Russian plane fell to Mount Sinai, with tragedies dead, Syria until then was bombed - not so densely - by the Americans. That's when Russia got into the dance. You're ruthless bombing every day! And when the terrorist strike took place in Paris, France entered. No one leaves his village, takes his children, is in danger of drowning in the Aegean, just because a industrialist, a Merkel or a Christodoulopoulos said something. I consider that to be an argument that does not fit. I think these people left because they had to be saved, at risk, the country was being ruthlessly bombed. The 'good or bad' is an issue that we can discuss, but it is certain that it was being ruthlessly bombed. As you know, the geographical borders with Turkey cannot change them. So, then, the first gateway is our country. This is an explanation to the argument I keep hearing 'we had so many flows at the time'. I know. I've been to Hatai and I want to confirm the Minister. The conditions in the camp, near the Turkish-Syria border, are indeed good. I have entered Syria in an unsuspecting time - we were ignorant of danger at that time - and I want to believe that I know firsthand what has happened in this country. I want to go a little further, see what happened with this deal. I want to believe that all Europe had underestimated exactly what has happened in Syria. She was slowly awakened - in my opinion - when she felt it, with the flow of these people. "More than 700,000," the Minister said. Maybe they're just a little more or a little less. Then they felt on their backs what a refugee crisis would say. As far as the agreement is concerned, I consider it positive that the New Democracy, despite all its reservations, has taken a positive step. I'm recording it in the pluss. Difficulties too many. But I want to insist on some facts. First of all, with the Greek Government's demand, under the auspices of the UN High Commissioner. For those who don't know about it, they should know. Secondly, a massive mechanism is moving from 2,400 people. The translators will be 400. I would like to explain here what 'translator' will say. He's a man who knows very well what's going on in Syria. Someone who's supposed to be not Syrian can immediately understand it by the translator. He doesn't have to have passports and papers. He can ask ten things, where are they from? There will be four hundred people specialising in asylum and about 1,500 people for security. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, if you're kind, give me two minutes. There is also a difficulty in disbursing, but the fact is that 267 million are already in the country, and I think we will get them. On 2 March a budget of some 700 million was voted. These only show that Europe is determined to solve the problem. I believe there are three levels. The first is to reduce flows from Turkey. It's a form of oxymomile to ask within two days to resolve such a matter. At least we'll show two weeks' patience, see if it works or not. The first level, therefore, is to reduce flows. That is what I think will depend on three things. Does Turkey really believe in its European perspective? I want to believe he believes. Does it want Turkish citizens to have visas in the European Union? I think he wants to. And more importantly, does he want the three billion plus three more if she's disciplined? It will depend on the first filter, the first level. The second level is NATO. Some people have underestimated it. I believe that NATO has not yet shown its potential and I think the Minister clearly said so. The problem has been dislocated. One can no longer accuse us that we are responsible if NATO itself cannot prevent this influx. The third and most important are the deterrent measures. When he loses his priority, a refugee who will come to Greece has no reason to come. Just the information is perverted. There are too many traffickers and others. I think that will be understood after two weeks. The non-refugees, you know that very well, are immediately being promoted in Turkey. The European Union has already committed itself at its own expense. I say all this because it is a problem - we did not know, but now we are all living it, now the government lives it - to solve it. I still want to say about the reality of the 50,000 people I hear they're trapped. Not at all. There is a previous agreement where every week - whoever listened with caution to Commissioner Avramopoulos, would listen to it - 6,000 to 6,500 refugees can go to a European Union country weekly. We can demand that, because this is something that has already been agreed. I would like to remind you that in the 1990s around a million economic immigrants - Albanians, Polish and various others - entered the country. I don't compare them. Indeed, today is an economic crisis and it is more difficult. I think that this percentage is manageable and I think it will be reduced very quickly. I cannot resist, however, the other major challenge, which is the economic one. We are currently seeing a bar of statements. Even Shoeble - I believe this - along with Sapen, with Dieselblum, with too many others, and especially the first four of the quartet, to say that the economic agreement, with the exception of red loans, is at the end of it. No Regling's almost downgrading this deal. I'm saying this because I see this glass half full and not half empty. There are incredible difficulties. It's complicated, but not unsolved. I want to say something about Minister Muzala. I've learned my friends never to sell them. Muzala, for us, was a model. He worked for the doctors in the world for years, and we all know what he's done. The fact that we, the Independent Greeks, have a hypersensitivity to the issue of name, is our right. It is not necessary, however, for all the others to share this hypersensitivity. I want to believe that the Prime Minister and the President of the Independent Greeks will find a solution for a minister I honour him unrestrictedly and declare this before you. It's my personal view. And I've learned the honest, the clean, the slaves, to honor them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Mr Karras, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Carras, you have six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u222	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let me make something clear before I talk about immigration-refugee. I heard Mr Theocharopoulos commenting on the non-signature of the joint communiqué announced in the debate in the Presidency of the Republic. I would remind him that we had previously sent and published our twenty-points on the refugee issue. We had already sent them to the President of the Republic, and with statements to the press, we had made it clear that we considered the meeting of the political leaders an opportunity to discuss wider Greek political issues that are crucial, and it is not only the refugee, but it is the economic situation, it is the social situation, it is all that is open. In this sense, then, I cannot hear that we have not shown sensitivity or have not been involved in the effort. You didn't say that, Mr. Theocharopoulos. I say so. I would remind you: First, as a Parliamentary representative of the Centro Association, in the first few days we were in Parliament, I voted in favour of the legal instrument for the transfer of migrants and refugees in the summer of 2015. Then we have voted in favour of all the provisions relating to the humanitarian crisis, but that is no longer important. I would like to say another thing that we have a new agreement with the European Union and with Turkey today. The arguments I have heard from all sides, all the groups of Parliament, for me are extremely interesting. We therefore believe that this agreement may have a good effect, it may also have bad - bad - elements. But I want to stay on some elements which, in my view, will make it difficult to implement. Why am I saying that? There is an agreement between the European Union and Turkey and a parallel agreement, an update of the re-promotion between Greece and Turkey. We forget, however, that these agreements are under the guarantees of the Geneva Convention on Asylum, the guarantees of the European Union's Asylum Directive and the European Convention on Human Rights. So over there, Mr Kumucako, we have a strict framework of provisions that confers the right to any person in Greece or any other European country - and I speak about Greece, because it will be considered as a first host country, because it has not cleared the question whether Turkey is a safe third country and we do not know whether it will be considered, at least for Greece, because there is a Kurdish country in great progress at the moment, and who will deal with asylum issues - to make an application and wait, to get the asylum document and wait for the Greek bells - and I have experience in it and I can take it to you - to wait, if the committees are working, if the secondary committees are working. I, too, accept that it will work soon. But we're forgetting something. We forget, however, that it has the right of appeal guaranteed by the Constitution, by European, international conventions and by the UN. So this man will stay inside the country without knowing if he is a refugee, if he is an immigrant. We do not know how many people will want to take advantage of these rights granted by existing legislation and remain in the country. And that's not it. Maybe that's the least of it. We do not know whether we accept such requests in view of the fact that another point remains unanswered with the contract. I have a void in my mind. I hear there are 2,500 Syrians, refugees and immigrants in Turkey. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u223	Millions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u224	Forgive me. You're right, millions. I hear another number talking about 3.5. But we did not see them in any picture of them. We didn't see any press channels, no briefings. We don't even know where he is in Turkey. We don't know if they're in structures, we don't know if they're free, and we don't know if they're at some point, regardless of the deal, they're starting and jumping into our country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. That cannot be guaranteed by any agreement. No European Union can guarantee that. We have said that in the humanitarian issue here, in the conditions currently in existence, we at least do not distinguish between refugees and immigrants. And especially at the point of Idomen, Piraeus, where these informal structures exist, let me call them, we do not see. But we see the need for protection, care, food and housing. So these issues are not dealt with by the agreement, nor by readmission with Turkey, because the updated one is supposed to work from 1 June onwards. We do not know the conditions we will have in our country after two months, but there is also the huge gap that has been signed and accepted from 20 March onwards. Previously, we have no regulation. We therefore think, Minister, that, in addition to the debate we are having today in this House, we all find that this agreement, which has been signed, irrespective of its defects or shortcomings, should, as far as possible, be applied to the route to cure its defects, imperfections and shortcomings. However, we have to discuss - and that is why I raise the issues - and these practical problems which are also raised for those who are already in the country and who do not have the refugee status, because we do not know how this situation will develop. We can't say about the number. We say that 45% of them are Syrians, we say 35% are Afghans. We really don't know anything. We also need to see how these people will deal with the issue not only of care and support, but also of being able to relocate to countries of their choice, in which we see that Europe is not willing to accept them - at least these messages feel that they exist - or they can be refocused safely in their countries or at least in areas where we can say that they will be provided with security. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, and I say this. There is also a risk of persecution for many of these people. We have not yet seen him, we have not tried to deal with him, because re-promotion many times, even under the heading of a safe third country, can pose problems particularly for their safety. Thank you very much, Mr President, and colleagues for their attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, before I speak to the House, I would like to address you not personally, but to the Bureau. About half an hour ago, three quarters of them in this Chamber sounded a delicacy of extreme words and threats to the members of the Greek Parliament. Mr President - and I am not addressing myself personally, I would stress this, but in the Bureau - the reflexes of the Bureau must be more direct and more stringent. The Greek Parliament cannot be offended in this way and cannot be heard 'kitch'. This raises these behaviors. Let's get this over with, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality of the country has not changed with the signing of the agreement and will not change for the next two years, according to government officials' estimates. Fifty thousand if not more incarcerated refugees and immigrants, they will have to find some way to exist in the country, without creating the enormous problems that we see today and the Greek society as well. The other reality is the closed, sealed borders. This will not change either after the Brussels agreement. They will remain closed and sealed. It will also not change the fact that there is full uncertainty as to whether serious and effective controls of migration and refugee flows can be carried out toward the country, this bone wave that the country has been receiving in recent years. That's the reality. And we need to know that and tell the Greeks and the Greek people that this is not cured. This is a reality that is the result of your own governance, Minister. On the occasion of the NATO operation and the debate that has taken place, some conclusions have been drawn, Minister. An operation agreed, implemented by the Atlantic Alliance, perhaps the most effective international organisation in the implementation of operational plans and plans, has not brought the legitimate, expected results and has a role to play and Turkey's attitude towards this operation, and we must support and demonstrate it. This is the first time in an operation in progress in the alliance of a Member State to hamper the implementation of the operation. So when we have this previous conclusion, how can we expect a more complex, more complex, more ambiguity-based agreement to be implemented, such as the one signed a few days ago? We therefore have every reason, in serious and serious terms, but also in the mood of genuine criticism - which I believe contributes when it is in a serious way - to question whether this decision will be implemented and this agreement. But even if it applies what results it will bring. There are some questions that you have not answered, but I shall bring them back, Mr Muzala. I don't know if you're going to answer them today, but find some way for the government to answer them. I have not heard anything, so that it can be explained or interpreted or tell us how the voluntary participation clause of the Member States will be applied to this programme? What is the legal framework within which thousands of Europeans and Turkish policemen will operate in our country? The question is specific. When we look at an asylum application - and I said it in my protology, and I will say it again because it is very serious, because it is about the sovereignty of the state - there are administration and jurisdiction. One cannot intervene, which has not been incorporated into any legal framework under existing domestic law. What are you going to do with it? Is there a solution? Will you legislate? Have you already agreed something we don't know? And if this concerns Europeans, it is not entirely legitimate for the opposition to make an additional and more worrying question: 'How exactly will the Turkish police officers work? What legal framework? What responsibilities will they have?’. These must be answered. One more thing. Solve this issue because I learned while following the debate that on the Turkish side this policeman is said to be a citizen of the so-called "Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus", as they call it, while it is a occupied part of the Independent Republic of Cyprus. You need to solve this. It's a wicked and drunken thing that's happened. The head, the first man to step on Greek soil on the island of Chios, to prove that he has such problems. Don't tell me it happened accidentally. I don't think that happens to happen. Another very serious legal issue that has been raised. What are you going to do with the designation of Turkey as a safe country? Will you proceed with this? And if you go ahead, what will be the fate of a Syrian refugee returning to Turkey, but is he Kurdish origin Syrian, for example a member of the Kurdish Democratic Unity Party? What's his luck on Turkish soil? What exactly will happen? How will you proceed to mark Turkey as a safe country? We need to know these things, these are serious issues. Another legal issue is the involvement of the Armed Forces. It's done by political decision. Is there a legal framework? Does it have legal cover? Are we working within constitutional limits or are we out? The involvement of the Armed Forces in an operation which has nothing to do with the core and context of their missions is at the moment. Minister, you have made two calls. The first call is to keep tones low, not to raise the tension on such a crucial issue. The second appeal you made is that the Refugee Refugee should not be used by the Refugee Refugee in order to pressure and fire the government. Really, are you making these calls to us? At the headquarters of the government to do them. Both. One call for tons, make it to the Prime Minister himself, who in the morning under the pressure of the problems of the refugee question asks the Chief of Officer Responsibility for support, and in the evening is abusing, polarising and splitting. There to appeal, not to the opposition, which goes to Brussels - the People's Party, not easy ground - with the national flag and creates tensions with the Hungarian Prime Minister, as the President of the Party has done in the past few days. We have described it as a national problem, the refugee problem. So don't make calls to New Democracy for low tones. We've kept them and we've been enthusiastised by the Prime Minister himself. The second appeal was not to use the refugee to throw the government down. Once again, this appeal to you to do so at the headquarters of the government. And you know who. The Minister of National Defence. He's threatening you by resignation and finally, if he's not accepted, with anything else. If today we have all seen that the 'kickdown' is being prepared. Because, of course, sensitivities and national authorities are good, but much better and more dear is the chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u227	Before I give the floor to Mr Kikilia, I would like to comment on what Mr Kumoucasos said at the beginning of his speech on the reaction from the Bureau. As you know, the Bureau has two ways of intervening. One is to intervene and control, somehow, what is said and what is the second is to leave Parliament, the Members of Parliament, the Parliamentary Representatives, to give them the floor, to protest and take a position on the Bureau if a Member or a party violates the Rules of Parliament, the Constitution or whatever. I'm in second class. I explained it to Mr. Kiklia before. I'll give him the floor and he can refer to what was said. The Greek people are watching the meeting and can judge it. Otherwise, the danger from the Bureau is to create a situation, in a way that will trigger a conflict and that the House with Asian countries, and at least I am not prepared for that story. If, however, you want, after the speech by the speaker in question, I would like to give you the reason to develop your arguments and, of course, then to take a position on what you are about to say. Otherwise, there is always a risk that there will be a dispute between the President or the President-in-Office - it does not matter - with the parties or with the MPs. We've lived it in older Boulders and ours. At least I don't belong to that category. I believe in the second tactic. Mr. Kumoucascus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u228	I am sure, Mr President, that we all share your very careful position. But I imagine that you, too, share the view that in the Greek Parliament, when such insults and such insults are heard, cannot pass as if nothing had happened. Alas! This opens up a very dangerous precedent and a dangerous practice of degrading Parliament and Parliament. This cannot happen again, Mr President. I'm watching your reading and your attitude. But here we must have a collective standpoint of responsibility towards the fundamental and unacceptable challenges that will continue and will be intensified. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u229	I must say that many times the Bureau is in a difficult position. Now I'm going to give Mr. Kikilia the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u230	I have not been misled, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u231	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u232	You're welcome, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u233	Just because Mr Kumucasakos referred indirectly to me - whom I honor and respect - I want to say a half a word, because it concerns my party of Independent Greeks. If you're kind, I'll need a minute. I don't want any more. Do I have it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u234	I didn't mention a name, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u235	But do not continue a debate. You should tell your opinion. Here, Mr Papachristopoulos, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u236	I would like to remind you without exaggeration and without drumcrossing that I am one of those who, when he went through the issue of the name of Skopje - and not only myself but other Members - ran to the Markian Library of Venice where there are two copies of what Claudius Ptolemyos has written, which proves that Skopje is entitled to be called by the name they are called. And we're one of those that we deserved then - forgive me, I don't want to work emotionally - the tear of Constantine Karamanlis. We have a hypersensitivity to this issue, which one might or may not share. But that - and you know from all of us - is something that is very important to us. Kill us, do us whatever you want, that's what we believe. However, it does not mean that this hypersensitivity - because I have heard a few comments - should all the others agree with it. We do not have that requirement. We're just saying that. We are not losing our principles, and in no case is any retreat to other issues. There are no such things in the Independent Greeks. It's a matter of principle purely and nothing else. In no case do we oblige anyone to share this hypersensitivity that we have. I say this because the word 'kibia' is not inappropriate to us, Mr President. For this word, I answer now and I explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u237	Thank you. Mr Georgioda, Mr Kikilias has asked for the floor on another matter, and I combine it with Mr Kumucako, otherwise you normally have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, I will put it in my dentistry. It doesn't take a hundred times.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u239	Good. Mr Georgios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think the Greek people who have attended this debate have become much wiser. The truth is that another tone in this debate was given by Mr Kurublish, who is currently absent from the Chamber. The paradox that we have heard - and basically with this has marked the responsibilities for the image of Idomeni - is that the MP of the Kilkis Prefecture, i.e. I, is uninformed, Mr Kourublis himself three days ago, visiting the region of Idomeni for the first time, said he found conditions in Dahau. We have the images that daily come to our homes from the news. What else can anyone say about Idiot? What I came to say about Eduned today, which many do not really know about in this Chamber, is about the consequences that exist in local society. Some understand them verbally, but we do not see how they will be dealt with. I have not heard, Mr Minister, from you or from Mr Kurubli in a certain way, how the inhabitants of the region will be compensated for the damage they are suffering there. I have not heard, too, what the strengthening of health structures in the Kilkis Prefecture, when we have a hospital in Kilkis, which has all the burdens of twenty-two thousand immigrants and refugees, and so far we are talking about no additional funding has been given, nor has there been any additional doctors who have actually gone, when we ourselves go there every day and the local players - there is only one doctor in CEDEFOP to be able to take care of the diseases, the vaccines for children. In fifteen thousand people there's a doctor at the CDC. We also hear verbal talk about the need for equal distribution. The equalisation of refugees, Minister, in Greece - as we are asking for this to be done in Europe, and we are rightly asking for this - means Idomeni, which we are forgetting for the moment, that it is proportionate, that there are eight thousand refugees in camps that you made twenty days ago in Kilkis, that is, four thousand in Hersso and four thousand in Nea Kavala? If this, which you mentioned twenty days ago, is it really fair, that is, eight thousand in Kilkis County, or is there a design for several hundred thousand in Greece? I can't figure it out. You have given money, you have built two structures open in Kilkis beyond Idomeni, five miles from Idomeni, where eight thousand refugees are currently hosted. There is no other prefecture that has eight thousand refugees, of course, not to include the fifteen thousand of Idolatus. There is an anguish from the local society, a society that really showed a reserve of solidarity, a reserve of tolerance, a reserve of patience, and showed a credibility towards your presence and your commitments. Today you must be clear about what Kilkisiotis has to expect from the evolution of these things. I hope your optimism that Idomen will not exist as a camp in a month, is valid and valid. However, I fear that in Idomen - because there are also illegal immigrants very much who do not want to leave inland, because they know that there is no control over them - it will not be easy to do that. I wish I could be disproved. I want it for the citizens of Kilkis. Minister, I think that at Kilkis you are specifically due to specific answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr. Georgioda. The Minister has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u242	I would like to speak for a moment and then, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u243	I'll try to be brief. Some answers first. Seen, Kilkis. I would like to tell you that there has been a month's request as Deputy Minister of Migration Policy for compensation to farmers, which has been lodged with the relevant agency. I don't remember the arctics, but it's deposited and signed. You're right, it's a fair request. You are right, if you sum up ID to the refugee population that Kilkis accepts, that this is unfair. It's not camp, it won't be camp. This illegal settlement will be dissolved. But I want to tell you this: I brought it before. Calais was in France. We are running and trying too much and I sincerely also have it as a personal responsibility, and I think the government sees it that way. We don't want to spend a lot of time and meet in a Calais, which will then be longer. I assure you we're making a great deal of effort. But, you know that hopes had to be dissolved, because they're just babies, they're kids there, they're different and they're not violent. I don't claim you're suggesting violence. I say that there must be a year to ripe things and go down to the centres that are already being built. Therefore, this is a commitment that Inomenis should not be counted - there is no policy like this, there is no intention - within the population that will "hospitable" Kilkis. A second answer I have to give to Mr. Theocharopoulos for Mr. Fervai. Mr Fervei was appointed an official representative of the European Commission for Migration in the operational project on the part of Europe. For our part, Mr Staffilis has been appointed, who will also be the head of the operational plan as a whole. You are right about the commitment I made to the Intergroup. Unfortunately, the stress and time on which things were going did not allow it to happen. That would be useful and you're right about that. I would now like to refer to a few things that should not be said and re-examined. Do not say'speaking vine'. Do not say that, there has never been this, even if we assume that someone - and I am sure that none of the parties in the democratic arch imply or imagine that - can think of abhorrences or think of anything like that. What no one of us thinks and none of us suggests, but let us say that there is one - there is rather, and I am not talking about the parties on the democratic arch - which could say something like that, it is not possible with two hundred boats coming at the same time. It's not possible, it's operationally impossible. However, I am sure none of you suggests that. Do not say 'unattached borders'. It's bad for home. Whole NATO is trying to reduce the flow. The whole of Europe is pressing for a reduction in flows. It's not our diplomatic failure. It's not our military failure. There's no reason to blame the government. That what? That NATO didn't make it? Okay. On the contrary, I say with the government to force NATO to do it, and the European Union is increasing its pressure. 'The state was and is absent'. And that's not true. The state with the many weaknesses it has as a state and the weaknesses it has and the government have been constantly present. You yourself thank the Port, "The State was absent." Thank the police, "The state was absent." Thank the Army, "The state was absent." Thank the hospitals, "The state was absent." The state was present with its powers. It could be above, it could be below, but the state was present. It amazes me when we say 'the state and the local government...'. If I remember correctly, local government is the decentralized state. So when we want to hit, say, something, it's not happening. The state was there. You can say about these shortcomings or other shortcomings, because they were incomplete and deficient, but the state was there. You asked about the NGOs. If I remember correctly, Mr. Barriots asked. Mr Barriotta, at every crisis around the world at first there is a party of NGOs. They're coming from everywhere. It takes time to clarify this thing. It's done here. We had it in Mytilini, and Mytilini is a very good example for Idolathi now. In Mytilini in September, we had the same situation in much worse form than we now have in Idomeni. When I took over, we had about thirty thousand, twenty so much on Mytilini, on an island with seventy thousand people. They were everywhere. It was a problem. We had flowing ten, twelve thousand a day. We are talking about very bad situations. If it weren't for the NGOs, we couldn't handle it. Now look, within a month, Mytilini has cleaned up. That's what I'm claiming for Idoed. After three months, Mytilini has positions to accept a wave of up to six thousand people, without bothering the island at all. Work takes time. The job wants political will, which is there. The job needs a mechanism, which is there with the problems it has, but it takes time. And what else happened in Mytilini? NGO's in order. The crooks are gone. There have been people who have also been subjected to police checks. We also broke into a break with some who wanted the situation to be unconscious. I'll agree with you. I have told Parliament this thing before. It's my place since I was in a NGO. The control of NGOs, the immunity of NGOs, is a loss of national sovereignty. It's just objective. The same thing as Idomeni and Mytilini in September we had with Katarina in America. Months were very bad. The NGOs were uncontrollable. The refugee's in, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u244	Katarina was unpredictable, Minister. Don't make comparisons of unrelated and different situations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u245	We have a different view, Mr Kumucako. You think the refugee should have been predicted. It wasn't predicted by anyone. The European Union is the first to report on the refugee issue in May 2015. There's no study. Forgive me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u246	May I, Minister, make a personal report?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u248	Since 2011, I have submitted five questions on the refugee issue to the European Parliament. Since 2011, I have done so with this very logic: 'As you urging Europe to act proactively. Come on, show up. The wave is coming." If I, a mere Member of the European Parliament, one of the seven hundred fifty, could I see it, could neither Europe nor you nor the government that you have undertaken? Alas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u249	I do not know about the reference you made to the European Parliament. I am telling you very seriously - and you can check it out, it is a check on what I am saying - that the European Union is raising a refugee issue on 27 April. Until then, talk. Neither the UN had raised such a matter, nor the UNHCR had raised such a matter. If you want to tell the reasons why it has suddenly increased, it will take us time, but they are very specific. Aleppo fell, funding fell in the camps, shut down the schools, no work permit, and suddenly the ISIS that burns, make people "bizolas" and do what you see. However, I am telling you my opinion. I come to the issue of asylum and I will finish here. I think I'm not trying to convince anyone. Everyone will stay with their political views. I'll tell you one last. For the Kurds or special groups I can confirm - and it is written in the agreement - that the asylum procedure will be individualised. Everyone will be judged personally. This will be independent of whether I consider Turkey as a safe third country or not or anything. A country, for example, like Canada, can be a safe country for refugees, but it can be a special category, for example, of formulae - do not take it seriously - that it is not a safe country. Therefore, the independence of the Asylum Commissions and the Appeals Committees will continue to be ensured. I repeat, however, that if you look, you will not find the last four, five years of sound complaints such as those made by various organisations that Turkey has been subject to violent, criminal or anything else in this country, measured as the country concerned. I want to finish with this: I will give two more answers. Turkish officers are international practice, they are Liaison officers. They count if the people who came in are the ones who leave and we don't put anyone who had us in Albania two years ago, and we on their own coast count if the ones who came are all those who put them on. That is what is happening between the countries that always exchange refugees. They're called liaison officers and they're usually police officers or other kinds of experts. They have nothing to do with the army, and you're misinformed about the Turkish officer on the basis of the information I had just before I came here. I would now like to keep this: that despite all the disagreements, despite all the accusations, I feel that little of the efforts made by the government have been wronged, there is one fact that no one has proposed anything else. That is, that we have poorly taken this decision from the European Union, we should do these five things in particular. Therefore, and on the basis of the Board of Governors, I think that, despite our disagreements, which are legitimate, despite our strong political differences, which are good for democracy to continue to exist, we will try together to implement this plan here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr. Muzala. Mr. Kikilia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u251	I would just like the floor, Mr President, to say something about what has been said, if my colleague will allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u252	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u253	Are you asking for the floor for a minute? On what subject? Not for dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u254	Not for dentistry, just for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u255	Here, you have the floor outside of the Rules of Procedure, but all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. We would just like to say that in what was before and heard by the Golden Dawn, we believe that it should be more dynamic to intervene in the Bureau, because these things have been fought for both our political space and other political spaces not to be heard here and in any case they are unacceptable. So on this basis we ask that the Minutes be removed from the Minutes and the word 'brochure', because we - and I consider the rest of Parliament's wings other than the Golden Dawn - consider this to be unacceptable and there is no smuggling human being and the last expression on the 'branche Ministry of Education' is also unacceptable to be heard in this Chamber, as is the 'violence'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u257	With regard to the explanation I gave to Mr Kumucako, I repeat it and I can explain that there was a break in the debate in the House in such a way and that the debate on the subject was not debated and the media discussed the disputes. I therefore believe that this way, as you said - good time - is more parliamentary. I believe that the word'refractory immigrants' is not...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u258	And the violence to which he referred.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u259	And violence or the challenge to violence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u260	Yes, and the 'violence'. Besides, he'll have the floor now, and Mr. Kikilis will be placed. I think that's a more ruthless parliamentary term. We're firing things out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u261	But we also create morality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Kikilia, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr President. I also believe that I have been in favour of it, and you understand that the incitement to a gesture against colleagues from the Bureau, of Ministers and of the Commission, and we deplore them very clearly. I'm not talking about it. However, the placement of George Kumoutsaku is true and you understand that when you leave things unanswered, there may be impressions. I say this with all due respect to your role and quality. Mr Minister, in order to close today, because my fellow Member, who was carrying out the debts of a SYRIZA parliamentary representative, asked me, does not think that much as we all believe, we express and we would do the same. After all, things are measurable and we are judged on the result. I, too, was the Minister of Public Order and Citizen Protection, who was also responsible for immigration and refugee, but we did not do the same and the results are measurable. I don't like them, though. I recall the numbers: Seventy-two thousand people crossed our borders in 2014, nine hundred thousand in 2015. I put this aside, however, to answer what we are going to do when we regain the rule of this country. I hope that in such situations as refugees - immigration, our national issues and our defence, things will not have happened, which we will see as irreversible or untrue. Restrictive policy is a weapon in the hands of each government, restrictive policy, and illegal - irregular immigrants and anyone who wants to enter, pass through the sixteen thousand miles of our maritime borders or our land borders. We therefore believe in the separation of illegal immigrants from refugees and vulnerable groups. We believe in restrictive policy in terms of illegal - irregular immigrants so that they can get the message to modern smugglers about how we feel that this country which is not space and has sovereign rights. We firmly believe in the organisation and coordination of the Greek public administration - central, first and foremost - so that everyone knows at all times where refugees and illegal immigrants are, in what structures they are hosted, how the health system can function in front of them, how the country's national security, internal security, what funds we need to absorb, what the costs and what we ask our European partners are, what our strategy is, what our allies and our teams are in this effort, what arguments are towards Turkey, how this agreement can be implemented. We urge you to see the vulnerabilities, Minister, of this agreement and to work on them, to ensure that they are properly implemented in the interests of the Greek people. Also, when it comes to the absorption of funds, we have to tell the Greek people the truth. If we cannot absorb European funds, all these costs will be paid from the national budget. In short, they will go again indirectly or directly into taxation for Greek citizens. The greatest possible effort must be made to organise this management authority and to be staffed with competent executives, so that the absorption is reintroduced to 90%, as it was when we left it in 2014. Also, the homogenisation of all these service structures, which have to do with an issue of enormous importance for us, such as refugee - immigration, is imperative. The coordination, which you spoke to us, like other colleagues, at first had another political leader, Mr. Flabourari, and later was left as a structure or a thought to the Ministry of National Defence, finally with Mr. Vitsa. We see this as a Qualified Opposition are you with five secretaries in a ministry - shell, such as the Ministry of Migration Policy, running across Greece and trying to drill holes, running behind the problem. As your doctor colleague, I would like to say that it prevents - you know much better - it's superior to healing. We expect to see this structure in practice. You know what? She doesn't even have to be hidden. We have to say clearly to everyone that the structure that will work will be that, its architecture will be specific, it will involve these services from the four - five ministries that exist, there will be statistically measurable every day, week and month, in order for everyone to know how the thing works, there will be a register for NGOs and there will be specific control over them. So our Greek fellow citizens will also be able to make their accounts and know very well where this story goes. In conclusion, Minister, I would like to say again that our islanders, our volunteers, our fellow citizens have been well-intentioned and at a very high level of responsibility and humanity and with greater efficiency, but certainly above your Government. Your government has been dragged into the refugee - immigration without tactics, without strategy, without solutions. I believe it is worthy of these fellow citizens, who have overcome the economic crisis by putting their hands on, by spreading their hands to the refugee issue to people who may not be able and who have our need and need, and we owe them much better governance. We need solutions, not only for wishing, not only to see journalists, not only the wish that in a few weeks' time, things will perhaps be better. We owe Greece solutions to the crisis. We have them and we're ready. But we are telling you that you and we are opposition and we are monitoring you for this, so that everyone in the Greek government can do your job, which we have certainly not seen to a satisfactory extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr. Kikilia. Minister, you have the floor for your tritology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u265	One word, not three minutes. I have nothing to say. I'm going to insist on this effort I'm making. It would be easy to talk about a million Albanians who crossed the land borders. This thing doesn't make any sense. It's over. I would also like to say that the solidarity shown by our people has to do with SYRIZA's practices and views. In other words, it would not be solidarity itself if, instead of building hospitality centres - for which we have delayed, Mr Kikilia, you are right - only prisons were built. You know, we're a state that hasn't built hospitality centers. I don't blame for building pre-experienced centers. I believe in pre-experienced centers. It sounds strange and creates reactions and objections. We hadn't built hospitality structures. We had an inexperience. I conclude by saying that we will also - yes, Mr Kikilia - work as far as we can, we will ask for your help, because I believe that, like you, we both want to solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, too. The debate on the No 15/10/22-12-2015 topical question of the Members of the New Democracy to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the implementation of the European Migration Action Programme and the progress report on Greece is hereby concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-21-S1-commons.u267	With the consent of the House at 22.30 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 22 March 2016 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
