ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I have the honour to announce to the House the news sheet on Monday, December 5, 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 227/18-11-2016 by MP Heraklion of the New Democracy Mr.Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister of Health on the systematic degradation of the National Health System. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 235/21-11-2016 topical question by Deputy Serres of New Democracy Mrs. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the abandonment of the radiant monument of Amphipolis. 3. The 190/8-11-2016 topical question by V Vice President of the Parliament and MP Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health, on the range of use of telemedicine in Greece. 4. The Question No 201/14-11-2016 by the MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday54 6 Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the safeguarding of jobs in the "Aster" Vouliagmeni. 5. The 232/21-11-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, about the digitisation of mobile monuments and the lousy working relationships that archaeologists have to work with. 6. The Question No 79/11-10-2016 by Z' Vice-Chairman of the Parliament and MP of the Athens I of Potamis Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy concerning the regeneration of Rema Picrodafni in Attica Prefecture. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 91/5-10-2016 of the First Vice President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy, Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Migration Policy, concerning the program for the rental of apartments in refugees from the Athens Development and Tourism View Society (ETA). Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the first 240/22-11-2016 question of the first cycle of the MP Preveza Coalition of the Radical Left Mr. Konstantinos Barkas to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the trade union persecutions at the Elderly House of Athens. Here, Mr Barkas, you have the floor for two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, the last administrations of the Athens Elderly have brought the foundation into a difficult financial situation. The mismanagement of his property, worth millions of euros, has resulted in a strong financial institution now having debts of more than 30 million euros in a state, insurance funds and workers. The amount due to creditors is also unknown. The last regular administrative payroll payment was made in September 2010, while since then the employees have appealed for legal proceedings in order to receive a partial minimum of money each time. In an effort to defend the functioning of the Foundation and the rights of workers, the Workers' Association and, in particular, the President of Mr. Dimitris Papachristos, have proceeded to various means of exerting pressure, culminating in the request for a waiver of the Board of Directors. The defence of workers' working rights and individual rights led to a representation of the Association in more than eighty trials. All of this resulted in the administration of the Athens Elderly School being declared a discount in September 2016, while the Prosecutor of Corruption since 2013 has prosecuted three former members of the Administration for four felony acts. The above action by the Workers' Association and its president personally led to the criminalisation of trade union activity, after having accepted four sues in the last three years from the lower management of the Elderly with the charges of slandering, exalting and violating sensitive personal data, although there are partial reports from the relevant ministries that prove the truth. In view of the need to protect such sensitive social structures and the importance of their social provision, I would like, Minister, to respond to the following: Firstly, until the draft law on changing the way in which management and management of associations - institutions are controlled - is drawn up, how will the large assets of these structures be protected? Secondly, how will workers and trade unions who are forced to replace the control role primarily of the members of these associations - institutions and, secondly, - perhaps more importantly - of the State itself? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Theanos Fotou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr P. MEP, the case of the Athens Elderly, which, as is well known, belongs to the Hellenic Society of Athens, is extremist but very characteristic of a regime of mismanagement, mismanagement and opacity which, in many cases, is due to the misery of the state. The State cannot refer the responsibility of all social protection to thousands of institutions, which it does not control. I repeat that the case of the Athens Elderly is one case of a thousand five hundred institutions, of private-law legal persons, which are not controlled and operated under a specific situation, where they consider that the public interest is identical to the views of the club board of directors, which have been established by the institutions. What are we doing in this area? As you know, we are currently working on a large law which, while not confronting constitutional requirements, will, on the other hand, completely modernise and create a new regime, which will be transparent, has clear rules on labour relations, management, evaluation and control of all private institutions. And this law will enter consultation in the next two to three months. In the meantime, however, with the evaluation and coordination mechanism, we are setting up a whole mechanism that operates at three levels within the Ministry, on-line within thirteen regions and in two hundred and fifty-four community centres. There will be three files there: one will be all the beneficiaries, the second will be all the institutions that will be registered in this file - so they will be recertified - and the third is all the programmes that are running in the state. However, I would like to give some information about the Athens Elderly, because, on the basis of this question, I would also like public opinion to be informed. Of course, since 2013, the Prosecutor of Corruption has been prosecuted by criminal prosecution against his former president, Prokopi Bouba, as well as other members of the board of directors. These persecutions were carried out for infidelity, with regard to the service of misappropriation, an embezzlement of a particularly high value object, etc. I will not go into detail, since justice has been dealt with and, as you know, it is going on. However, the development of the operation of the hospital can be illustrated in the following figures: Mr President, because of the specific nature, let me. I think everyone's very interested. In 2004, 11 kiosks were operated at the Elderly of Athens with four hundred guests. It can house five hundred guests. 2016 is open three kiosks with a hundred ten guests. You understand the great loss of Athenian society in excellent housing and care for so many elderly people. In 2004 of the huge property of the Elderly, which may be the third or fourth in size after Church's property in the Greek state, was rented three hundred properties from about five hundred. 2016 is a hundred and ninety properties leased and the money is not collected from them, because through various checks carried out by the new Home Administration the whole story has been abandoned. We've got huge debts in the nursing home right now. Our services, as well as I personally, have gone to the Elderly since the first moment we came out as government. What I faced, Mr Barkas, is scary: Elderly people were saying, crying that they are being malnutritioned. And I inform you that because tragic events have happened - a man killed himself in 2016 - we sent all our services there to see what is happening exactly. We were in front of a regime to transfer elderly people to wings that were not licensed. I didn't have a license. As you can see, we prevented them, but this is nothing ahead of the body of mistakes and actions that have taken place at the Elderly of Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u5	Madam Minister, can you continue in your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u6	Yes, Mr. President. Today, then, I just want to say that, as a ministry, in response, among others, to the demands of the new management of the Elderly, the temporary administration, we promised that we would take up the food of the elderly - for free of charge - and, of course, in terms of hygiene and, of course, on new terms in this effort. I'll speak more thoroughly in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u7	Good. Mr. Barca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u8	Madam Minister, it is clear from your answer that such institutions that operate in our country - and especially the Elderly House of Athens, which, as I understand it, is the greatest - the years of prosperity in our country were under a non-controlling regime. I must acknowledge - and I was informed by the Association itself - that the Ministry has given some money to the workers who have been working for so many years without being paid. But a few days ago, they received a gift, a Christmas present, from the Ministry, and this is very important. But we must recognise, Minister, that we too must take rapid steps to ensure that this environment of lawlessness in which such institutions operate - which, of course, are of a social nature - so that we can resolve, if you like, these fierce links with which they are linked. The evidence that you have presented, unfortunately, shows, if you like, a form of delay. Things are happening, but I think we should all go to problems together and work harder so that these institutions can actually get into excellent working order and be able to offer what they really can. This is done on two levels: what you describe, that is, that from 2004 to 2014 most of the structures of this institution closed down, so they could not offer the services that they had the opportunity to offer, is particularly important. The fact that the institution's real estate is shattered, if you want - and apologise for the expression - or is on the margin and can be used, to help social groups, people on the margin or who really need to use this institution. But also, of course, the passion with which the workers have embraced the foundation has been working for so many years without the Association being paid, the persecuted by the previous administrations, and yet they bear the burden of their work in this institution. I think that, in cooperation with the other co-legislative ministries, we should also resolve this Gordian link. It is clear that justice has been seized and this process will take its course. But it is also our job, too, of the government and Members of Parliament, to help us, namely, justice, by taking on the role of control, what was happening with the previous administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Barkas, as you know, in September 2016, the Municipality of Athens, as it had the right, went on to cease the administration of the Elderly and set up temporary administration, which now takes all the necessary measures for the proper functioning of the Elderly House, which houses even this small number of elderly people. Of course, through the new administration which visited me and we intend to strengthen and work together, very unpleasant findings are revealed. The new administration is now making checks on the property situation of the Elderly. Dwellings that are either rented to our Greek surnames or do not bring anything or are licensed or rented or there is a shocking mismanagement regime. Apart from that, however, the previous administration has taken insurance measures against the new administration and lost them. The previous administration was extremely afflicted by the union of workers, which, from the very first time we took over, was a very interesting partner, to understand what is happening within the hospital, hence our great anxiety to change the status of legal persons under private law and to synchronise it with the legal persons under public law who have welfare benefits. I believe that in his attitude he justifies what union means and what union. The Elderly Workers' Association has worked for the public interest and not just for the interests of their members, who of course defended them. Here I can correct that the gift was given by the new management of the institution, which saved it from some kind of money it slowly finds. The workers today only take the money, it's from the work they've done, i.e. a regime that doesn't end. We hope, however, that in the new path that we have, with our two parallel moves, we, our government, will in every way strengthen the new administration and evolution of the Athens Elderly. The situation will not continue where an administrative board convenes a general assembly of thirty heirs of the former regime. That is what I am saying, that here we still have Frederick alive in all the institutions of the country and that many colleagues are affected when I say it. It's gonna change this system. We're next to the new Command, and we'll be helping out in every way. We will change the legal regime as I promised and we will help workers in every way so that they return to the Elderly and offer their valuable services, with a new administration that we will strengthen in every way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd General High School of Argyroupolis "Georgios Seferis". The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to inform you that at this time we are in a parliamentary control process. In other words, MPs from different parties are asking questions with timely interest and are calling on the ministers to whom the questions refer to answer them. Often this process is attended by the honourable Members who are also questioned by the ministers. That is why there are not too many Members in the Chamber. I tell you, to have a picture of what is taking place at this time in the Chamber. Thank you. We continue with the second with number 121/18-10-2016 timely question of the first cycle of MP Kozani of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Theosmos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the recruitment of workers in the lignite unit "Ptolemais V" with transparent criteria from the OAED registers. The Minister for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr. George Stathakis. Mr. Sanctuary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, our region, the Kosanis Prefecture experiences a strong deindustrialisation and a more general unfavourable economic and development environment, mainly because of the deindustrialisation and operation of PPC, which leads to very high rates of unemployment, higher than those of the country and, in particular, youth unemployment is higher. In this unfavourable and pitiful environment, one of the country's largest investments in the construction of the "Ptolemais V" plant seems to be oasis for both the region and the country. It's a big investment, a new factory. The region's workforce, young people, the unemployed in the region who are also qualified in such work, because they have a lot of experience, working on contractors who undertake projects at "PPC S.A.", that is, technicians or have worked in similar jobs and have similar skills, waiting for how and when jobs will be opened to hire and work and take a personal and family breath. It is estimated that in the next few years hundreds of perhaps thousands of workers will be absorbed in the construction of the Ptolemais V plant. Unfortunately, however, we have an image of all the MPs and all the civil servants of Kozani Prefecture, that before we come to things, opaque recruitment mechanisms had already been set up, i.e. an obscure complexity of the old civilian staff, the old establishment with the contractors who will be active, 'give me to give you workers' and go by saying. Because we have a completely different political project, I would like to ask whether you intend to take some action, so that the staff of workers in the construction of the 'Ptolemais V' plant can be recruited in a transparent manner. What I also propose in my question, such a transparent way of all personnel or percentages of staff employed, is to be hired from the OAS's unemployment registers in the region. It's an idea I don't claim her paternity. Mrs Karamesini herself visited the region and suggested that at least a percentage, if not all the staff, could be recruited by specialties in the OAS register in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u14	Dear colleague, the lignite plant "Ptolemais V" is the largest investment in Ptolemais. It is a very large investment of 1.4 billion and is of course a modern unit, which will significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% and is a major investment and a very significant boost to local employment, since during its construction, some three thousand people will be employed and later when it is completed, it will have only two hundred and fifty staff. As you know, however, the construction work is not done by PPC, it has awarded it through a classic contract to a company which is required to build this project within a certain period of time with complete technical and the conditions and limitations that this award contract has. Under the circumstances, the choice of staff is self-evident that it is solely the responsibility of the contractor. I would remind you that PPC itself has very specific criteria for recruiting permanent and seasonal staff. I would remind you that according to PPC's current recruitment regime, priority is given to the citizens of the local districts, mainly those who have been expropriated or purchased, the citizens of the nearest municipalities are following up and the citizens of the rest of the municipalities are following up and then other categories of employees. However, the rules of this locality do not, of course, apply if PPC had entrusted the project to a third party for its construction. What is being pointed out, therefore, although there are opaque recruitment mechanisms, which run within the scope of the existing legislation, is, above all, a question of compliance with labour law. In any case, it is at the company's discretion and the recruitment it does and as it does, in order to complete the work, I repeat, which has strict terms and timetables.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Ioannis Theophiles has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u16	Minister, I find it self-evident that what you mentioned - and as legal for one reason above - is that the contracting private company is, on the private market, active, freedom of trade is a freedom of choice. However, to give a different political signal and a different political project - not otherwise self-evident - it could have been avoided but limited or controlled to bring in rules if such a term had been introduced in the original contract and the original notice. This is the omission of the old civil servants and the old governments who had conducted the competition. If a simple condition had been introduced that this percentage, for example 50%, will be recruited with the corresponding specialities from the unemployment registers in the region, then it would be within the obligation of the contracting company. My view is that, even now and now, this can be achieved, after a negotiation with the contracting company, when it is to take over in particular here because it is, indeed, a big project that is a big investment, is a lot of money that the company will receive. As it receives the first instalments now, I may believe that the relevant tiers of PPC will be negotiated to introduce an additional condition to the contractor's obligations. It is in this sense that the question is being introduced, and I think it is worth making such an effort. Otherwise I agree with what you mentioned. So a piece is what I mention in my question in hiring staff. A very important part, however, is what will follow, namely industrial relations and labour rules, if they are respected throughout the construction of the plant. Our experience in the region, Minister - and we will have the opportunity to talk about it during your term of office, because it is a major issue for you and for us - is that the rules are usually not complied with, neither insurance nor labour. We must - perhaps in cooperation with Mrs Fotio, who is next to you - give our stigma and attention so that during the construction of an entire factory we can respect insurance and labour rules. It is something that can be done with proper supervision and the proper functioning of the inspection services. In other words, there is much more to do with PPC. We'll see it in other times. What I would like to highlight briefly is that it really deserves an effort to introduce into the contractor's obligations and an additional term on the one hand and - on the other - because you mentioned it - that compliance with the legislation throughout the project is a duty of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u18	I share the remarks. I think that the government's work is obviously to ensure that all working and insurance data are kept. It is - I repeat - a very big project. From there on, I consider all the proposals, which are now aimed at the way and the possibility of this convention improving the conditions of employment of local staff, to be constructive. It would be a good thing if the contractor and, above all, the company that has undertaken this very large project feels it is appropriate to discuss it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the third with number 30/4-10-2016 top-circuit question of the first cycle of Piraeus, the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Irene (Nina) Kasimatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the suspension of operation of the sales store PPC Salamis from 01-10-2016. Mrs Cassimatis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u20	Minister, I would like to tell you that the question I have put raises not only in Salamis, but also in other PPC stores for which PPC has decided to propose and examine the suspension of its operation and to transfer these services to the administrative offices. This development - for Salamis I will be speaking for the moment - has caused a great deal of suffering for the people of Salamis who are the consumers of PPC and are served by this particular store. We believe that the proposed suspension of the sales store does not take into account the island character of Salamis, nor the population characteristics of the island that are seventy thousand permanent residents. It is a large island with a high population density. And in the summer just because it's a region of the Second Piraeus, the inhabitants become two hundred and fifty thousand. Furthermore, the implementation of this Decision will further downgrade the services provided to the people of Salamis, who under conditions of economic crisis will also be forced to bear the costs of moving to and from Salamis to fulfil their obligations. Finally, we believe that PPC as a public utility obliges it to take into account the social consequences and specificities of the country, such as islandity, when taking its decisions. That is why I would like you to tell me what action - since I will tell you further that a lot of efforts have been made by the municipal authority, but also by a movement of action, people have tried to prevent this development - at the highest level you could commit yourself as a minister to ensuring that you can prevent such a development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u22	I fully share the concerns and I fully share the fact that islandity is a very strong factor. I think we all recognise that the way PPC's services are organised now allows for multiple forms of customer service, and we consider this to be positive. On the other hand, the existence of a branch obviously comes to cover more needs than the payment of accounts. In the case of the island situation, I think it is reasonable, not only for PPC, because now we are talking about an energy market where there are other companies, there is an element of strong islandity in the way they regulate and organise their structures. The Ministry cannot intervene immediately. However, in the light of developments on the whole market and on how to organise and serve citizens, if necessary it should ensure that the regulatory framework for the energy sector, as well as the legal framework, is incorporated into social criteria which are very strong, such as those resulting from islands. For the moment, it would be fair for me to say that there will be a necessary consultation in order to have a positive result in support of PPC's island activities at the level of organising its offices.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Cassimatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u24	Minister, thank you, first of all, for your understanding of the central issue. Nevertheless, on the issue of consultation and the content of this consultation, I must tell you that this consultation cannot last long. Just two months ago, it was decided to close the store on October 1st and it has a horizon until December 31st, that is, within one month from now. In the meantime, the store is down. I mean, there's an employee instead of two who were there before, who works on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, while on Tuesday and Thursday he goes to the Keratsini shop. These are not serious things for a business, in our view, even with private economic criteria. I have to tell you that a question had also been tabled in the past by my colleague, Mr Psychoyios. PPC had indeed replied that the accounts can now be paid in alternative shops, as well as the possibility of electronic transactions. There is this special feature in Salamis because of the crisis, namely that it is inhabited by many citizens who are over-aged. And that happened because they have moved to their country houses to save some expenses in relation to their homes and to facilitate their children. The second feature is that the distance is too long. Salamis is a big island. One should, in order to move within Salamis, make 20 km to reach the port and then take the boat to come to Perama and then take the bus to reach Keracini or wherever else needed. At Salamis' store you said there was a fund. You are not in a position to know this, and that is why I must tell you that unfortunately a gradual deforestation has been started for too long. I mean, there's no cash. It's just a sales store. We believe that the fund should also be restored. However, it is a sales shop which serves citizens and the signing of contracts, i.e. a new supply, but also for the preparation of arrangements. In these unfavourable circumstances, of course, it is absolutely essential that there should be this possibility for citizens, in other words that they should go to the shop in question. As you raised this matter, I should tell you that even under private economic criteria we cannot understand this decision by PPC when there is a sales store in Salamis, "ProTERGIA". So, the competitor thinks there's a sales and transaction territory there with consumers, while PPC, invoking the need to restructure its potential and its stores, thinks that it should take this store from Salamis and take it somewhere else? Indeed, it says - I find it very easy - in her reply that this decision concerns non-opportunistic regions. I think, I mentioned, how it is possible to move from the points of Salamis to the rest of the second Piraeus and the rest of Attica. That is why this is completely collapsed. It's a difficult area. Secondly, we consider that PPC could, if it wants to limit its costs, make some alternative decisions about the store. He could find someone cheaper to rent or anything else. Certainly it is not an argument for us to take employees from Salamis and take them to Keracini, Nice or elsewhere, in order to better serve the people in the other regions. Why, yes, and there must be care from PPC in order to provide better customer service, but this cannot be done at the expense of the rest of the population with these particular features that I have mentioned. Therefore, as I said before - and I will close with that - and with private economic criteria and social criteria, the decision is unacceptable. There are only thirty days left for the closure of PPC. A decision should be taken in the next few days. For the reasons I have said, we think that the Ministry should take a very important initiative. In order to reverse this decision and in this way to demonstrate precisely that the government is devoting and understanding reality and social and economic. They should give PPC understand that it is not in its interest to remove the store from Salamis, but it is in the interest of the competitor and should explain why it does. Thirdly, I think that the struggles that the municipal authority and the citizens of Salamis will also be honoured, so that the region will not become even more degraded at the level of providing services to its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u26	I think the Ministry's position is clear. Obviously, he cannot intervene immediately. I repeat, we are in favour of better functioning of the energy market, with better conditions of competition. We are in favour and of PPC making the restructurings that it considers necessary for the operation of the company. However, the position of the Ministry remains clear. These reductions in PPC’s operating costs for the benefit and consumers should take place, without any reductions in public service and especially in social groups and areas characterised by island elements. I fully share the concerns of the groups on this issue and we will intensify the consultations. The only intervention that the government can do in the future is to make regulations that take account of all companies' strong social and island criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Minister. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the page 30 enter.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will be interrupting for five, ten minutes until the Members are here for the roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Resolution of the articles set out in a roll-call vote and a vote in the entire draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘Integration of Directive 2000/43/EC implementing the principle of equal treatment of persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin, Directive 2000/78/EC establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and work and Directive 2014/54/EU on measures to facilitate the exercise of the rights of workers in the context of the free movement of workers, 22, 23, 30, 31 par. 1,32 and 34 of Regulation No 596/2014 on market abuse and repealing Directive 2003/6/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directives 2003/124/EC, 2003/125/EC and 2004/72/EC and incorporating Directive 2014/57/EU on criminal sanctions for market abuse and Implementing Directive 2015/2392, III) incorporation of Directive 2014/62 on the protection of the euro and other currencies against counterfeiting through criminal law and replacing Council Framework Decision 2000/383/JHA and IV) Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the PASOK - DIMAR, Potamos, as well as by three independent MPs on Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4, whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u29	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Theocharopoulos Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Kegeroglu Vasiliou. Here you go. Mr. Kremastinos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Constantinople Odysseus. Here you go. Mr. Loverdos Andreas. Here you go. Mr. Maniotis John. Here you go. Mr. Papatheodoros Theodore. Here you go. Mr. Scandalidis Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Amyras George. Here you go. Mr. Lykoudis Spiridon. Here you go. Mr. Mavrosh Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Pssarian Gregory. Here you go. Mr. Theocharis Theocharis. Here you go. Mr. Koutsoukos John. Here you go. Mr. Karras Georgios - Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Venizelos Evangelos. Here you go. Mr. Jelephus Michael. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. Before we interrupt the meeting, I have the honour to announce that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty one students and students and three educational sessions from the 2nd General Lyceum of Argyroupolis "GIORGOS SEFEERI" (second section). Welcome to the Greek Parliament, guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Adjourn the sitting for ten (10') minutes under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote on Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the bill. The acceptances of the articles say 'THE'. The non-accepting articles say 'OH'. The voters say 'PARON'. They are called on the list: Mrs Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA and Mr Emmanuel Konsolas from New Democracy. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, which makes their vote known on articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u31	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u32	I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having participated in the educational programme "Worker of Democracy", organised by the Foundation of Parliament, twenty-three students and students and three educational attendances from the Palladium Educational Schools. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of the House)]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Bureau has received letters from colleagues, Mr Theodoros Parastatis, Mr Georgios Vartenomeni, Mr Andreas Michaelides, Mr George Pallis, Mr Evangelos Apostolos, Mr Olga Gerovas, Mr Panagiotis Skourletis, Mr Skourletis Dannelis, Mr George Lazaridis, Mr Charas Kefidou, Mr Evris Christophilopoulos and Mr Adonnis Georgiadis, who know that they are absent from the vote and have notified us by letter of their vote. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but shall not be counted on the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] I would suggest that we continue the debate on the topical and urgent questions until we have the result so that we do not waste time. We are therefore entering the debate of the sixth under number 59/10-10-2016 on the'reduction of the national predominant administration of justice through the ratification of the CETA Agreement between Canada and the EU'. The Minister of Economy and Development will answer Mr. Municipality of Papadimitriou. Mrs Zaroulia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Of course the question, two months after the statement, is not so timely. We had a Commission on CETA and TTIP on 7 October, when the outgoing Minister Mr Stathakis was going to the European Union summit to sign on 27 and 28 October for CETA. According to what he said, which is in the Minutes, the government has tried to enter a negotiation process, instead of directly stating its objection or abstention in order to maintain unanimity and achieve a better result. Here are two issues: One is that, when you do not state your objection from the outset, the majority principle is distorted. Then how can he be sure that in this way he chose, will we lead to a better outcome? And in any case, who are the interests of? Because it is certainly not for the benefit of Greece. I will be forgiven by the Minister, who replaced Mr Stathakis, because these questions and they are no longer timely because the 28th October signed by Mr Stathakis and my second question was answered by Mr Voutsi in committee. But it is good to read what this is about, so that the Greek people can understand what we are talking about. A serious threat to the national and state sovereign administration of justice lies before the gates with the ratification of the CETA agreement between Canada and the European Union. The agreement provides for a parallel system of justice and a mechanism for the settlement of disputes between foreign investors and States, in which multinational companies are able to lodge an action and claim compensation against any European State, which they consider to be harming their interests and for the enforcement of judgments by private arbitrators, by circumventing national laws and the rules and institutions of law of the European Union. In addition, once CETA is ratified, and regardless of whether or not the TTIP agreement on trade relations between the European Union and the United States of America is ratified, it will also have the possibility for every American group, which will maintain a small branch in Canada, to file a complaint against any European state. With the introduction of the parallel legal system, capitalist groups, having a legal status equivalent to that of the states, are declared to be equal partners of the states, at the expense of national and state sovereign administration of justice, thus also of the national sovereignty of the European states, and can demand compensation when they consider that national state policies, such as the protection of health, the environment and normal economic life, restrict their freedom, namely their inherent momentum for profitability, without limits and restrictions. And as far as this is concerned, there are many other states where companies, states and have forced them to pay fines. I have here - and I can submit it for the Minutes - some evidence. The Swedish energy company ‘WATT+VOLT’ moved against the German Government for EUR 3.7 billion, the US company ‘ETHYL’ against Canada, the ‘PHILIP MORRIS’ against the Australian Government. The Argentine Government was forced, in October 2013, to pay more than $500 million in order to meet the requirements of five companies. Ecuador was obliged to pay the “OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM” compensation of $1,77 billion, because the contract with the oil colossus ended when it violated the laws of the country. What do you think will happen here too, when the multinationals come and break some law of the country and the state wants to bring them back to order? They'll drag us to some courts and, obviously, Greece will lose. So, given these elements, which I have mentioned to you, I told another committee on 17 October, Mr Voutsi that this signature of CETA and TTIP must be discussed in Parliament with an increased majority, as set out in Article 28(2) of the Constitution, because the sovereign territory is assigned, sovereign rights in this way, they are pouring a foot here. Mr. Voutsis answered me that I say that sovereign rights are granted, based on my assessment. No, it's not based on my assessment, it's a fact that's documented.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u35	Ms. Zaroulia, because you have your dentistry, if possible, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u36	You are absolutely right, I waited two months and it is not a timely question, but it is important.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u37	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u38	I shall conclude, Mr President, and I will not take much time after my denunciation. The government said, after asking whether it would be by a qualified majority, that it would not call the House with a qualified majority and that, in the intervening period, until it was discussed in Parliament, the government would have the political responsibility for the manipulation. In other words, you are deciding and ordering, in the absence of the Greek people, because this normally had to enter a referendum, so that the Greek people could be informed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u39	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u40	First of all, I want to make it clear that in every transaction there is a dolphin and take. When we seek to maximise the development benefits of our participation in a group of countries such as that of the European Union, and to exploit its multiple negotiating power by making agreements with third countries, we know that at the same time we should seek a cut, a common basis of interests, on which we will negotiate. That means, yes, we will win in some areas, but at the same time we will sacrifice some other domestic interests in other areas. This does not mean, however, that the Greek Government is not struggling within the European Union to get the best possible common European decision on domestic interests. So, in the case of the CETA Agreement from the outset Greece has called, within the Foreign Affairs Council, for an open and transparent negotiation process, with a clear position that the interests of European citizens should be above those of companies. We have also put forward our position on every occasion that agreements of the kind of CETA extend to areas where there is a co-responsibility of the European Union and the Member States and are therefore of a mixed nature. In order for them to enter into force, they should, on the one hand, be ratified by unanimity and not by a qualified majority in the Council, on the other hand, in accordance with the national procedure of the parliaments of the Member States. To date, the Ministry of Economy and Development has expressed reservations and objections to both the procedures and the content of the negotiations, observing the delicate balances they need, in order not to find the country isolated at the top that it is putting obstacles in a sterile way. However, with regard to the management of the issue under the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, I must stress that the conclusion of the CETA negotiations took place on 18 October 2013. On 26 September 2014, the Committee sealed the conclusion of the negotiations without initialling the Agreement. Therefore, the new government took over in January 2015, CETA was finalised in the light of the negotiations and the possibility to influence the final texts was extremely limited to non-existent. As a result of this, any efforts made by our country to improve the texts have largely been fruitless. The exception is the change in the text of investment protection, where apart from the general changes it is of particular importance for Greece to exclude public debt from the protection of investments in the event of restructuring as a result of negotiation. I would also add that the conditions agreed on the provisional application of the agreement at the informal Foreign Affairs Council on trade matters are quite strict. The legally binding interpretative declaration of the Agreement clarifies sufficiently sensitive issues, firstly, with the protection of public goods and services and, secondly, the maintenance of high standards of consumer and environmental protection, and the implementation of the most powerful environmental commitments emanating from international agreements. In any case - and given that our position on the mixed nature of the agreement has been adopted by the European Union - the matter will soon come to the Greek Parliament, where it will be discussed in detail before deciding on the agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs Zaroulia has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, it has been necessary for the Minister to change and for a person to come directly from the IMF to answer me. In the abstraction of his word he said there is a chance that we might sacrifice some domestic interests. She also said CETA had been completed in past years, as usual. But Wallonia was found even for a while to blow it off. I think Greece should also show some resistance at this point. Fortunately in the United States, Donald Trump, who in his election announcements said he would stop TTIP, so it's comforting for our country. It won't catch up with the total catastrophe to which SYRIZA leads it at a speed of light. Finally, I do not want to talk about the Minister's face, because there is another minister who does not speak the Greek. You talk it very well. But in this country no one is concerned about the fact that there are ministers who are not elected by the Greek people, but donors who do not speak the language? What other parliament do these things happen to? So we realise that Greece is not a free state, but a perfect state, and that is why it is the duty of all Greeks to freedom of our country. The Golden Dawn is fighting in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Zaroulia. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u44	All I wanted to say is that Wallonia has changed its mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u45	We move to the eighth under No 123/18-10-2016 top-level question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary 2nd Piraeus Union Mr.Theodoras Megalonou to the Minister of Economy and Development, concerning the treatment of the merchandise in the Municipality of Piraeus, Perama, Korydalou, Keratini - Drapetsonas, Nice - Agios Ioannis Rentis. Mrs. Big Housekeeper has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have tabled my question as a timely one, but I fear that it will be timely for a very long time, because all trade clubs in Piraeus, Keratini, Drapetsonas, Korydalos, have long been hitting the alarm. Their businesses, in addition to confronting the adversities of the crisis and their turnover has been reduced due to the economic recession, overtaxation and the insurance funds, have to face a daily obstacle, the trade. In fact, two months ago, when I tabled my question, the Trade Unions issued a press release on the disappearance of Greek entrepreneurship, which I present, to which the issue of the trade is referred. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora Megalonikou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to ask you what measures you intend to take to effectively limit the trade. Because this is a gloomy economy that is twice as strong as other European countries, and it is a disaster of legal entrepreneurship. There is such a major crisis that is even deeper because of the illegal trade. The legitimate businessmen, who today live a tragedy and look at how to survive, cannot have this problem in front of them and at their shop, at their doorstep, standing and selling uncontrolled and illegally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Parallel, as a trade activity without the necessary documents or certificates, is a particularly important problem for retail trade in our country. The same applies to the sale of products in misleading terms. Such practices distort competition, affect consumers' rights and deprive public revenues. Given that such unfair practices are intensified in times of economic crisis, the Ministry of Economy has taken a number of initiatives to combat the illegal trade through a plan to improve the overall surveillance of trade in products and services. Specifically in the Piraeus Region, the available data by the end of September confirm the mobilisation of the control mechanisms. In particular, there have been two hundred and eighty - five audits of which there have been hundreds of seventeen detected violations of the illegal trade and confiscations of thirty - four thousand three hundred twenty - four objects. However, there is considerable scope for improvement. To date, the operation of the Coordinating Centre for the Combating of the Container operating in the General Secretariat of Trade has not been supported by a coherent action plan. Thus the SYCAP cannot effectively exercise its institutional role as the central point of design and implementation of controls. This is precisely the gap that the Ministry of Economy initiative comes to cover by drawing up a strategic plan for coordinated operational action. The aim is to combat trade at source, before reaching the final retailer, and in that direction there have been concrete actions. First, a working group was set up in June 2016 with the participation, for the first time, of all the ministries and agencies involved in market surveillance. The aim is to make best use of the resources available to the public administration as a whole, given the underselling of very important services. This group has already come up with concrete proposals to improve coordination and enhance the role of the audit authorities. At the same time, there has been cooperation with other ministries to clarify the institutional framework governing the controls today. The aim is to combat pluralism, as often the responsibilities of the stakeholders and the opportunities for joint action initiatives are not clear. The conclusion of all these steps will be to draw up a dynamic and coherent strategic plan to combat the illegal trade. This plan will be specific to specific operational actions and will act as a benchmark for all supervisory and audit authorities. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The project will be implemented on the basis of specific quantitative indicators and will use public information systems in order to carry out automated checks and better use of all available information. The first results of this effort have already been felt. For the first time, coordinated operational market surveillance actions are being implemented in selected sectors, particularly in the field of the movement of agricultural and food products. A large number of supervisory authorities are involved in these actions. For example, the General Secretariat of Trade, the Ministry of Rural Development, the Economic Police and the FAR. This development demonstrates that further improvement in the coordination of services, so that controls become more targeted and effective, is possible in the near future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, don't you think the Municipal Police should also do the checks in the area more? Also, seeing that product prices remain high, because of the company's operating costs, do you not think that controls should be made more intense and more systematic? The market blossoms because the world, on the one hand, is fooled by the imitations, the well-known "monymous" or, on the other hand, prefers in the knowledge of getting something cheaper that has entered our country illegally, and not paying VAT or customs duties, etc. - if there are any duties. In fact, from what we have read, according to the tests carried out at the Promagnon last year during two weeks, which implemented a pilot programme for enhanced controls, the number of infringements has tripled. In fact, the Thessaloniki Chamber of Commerce recently stressed that the phenomenon has received incredible proportions, mainly from Bulgaria. Illegal goods enter the market, as is the case with fuel smuggling, from which the public is losing too much money. I think that the smuggling and smuggling, now, in the period of the economic crisis we are experiencing, is even greater because it has a high percentage of profit and because they are uncontrolled. So a barrier has to come in. Because in this way, with the competition of those involved in the trade against healthy businesses and the business world, the business world is reaching its limit. It can no longer meet its fixed costs, nor its insurance contributions, nor its tax contributions. So the micro-medium now gives a real fight to keep his shop open, not to fire his staff - if he has - and continue on healthy bases to fight for his survival. I think there are still huge gaps, which are a wound for the state that loses tax revenue in incredible amounts. Appropriate opportunities must be created in order to control the trade in goods, so that it does not give the business a gift and has revenue for the state, which we need and to which the business can cope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u52	I would like to say that there is cooperation with the municipal authorities. The increase in controls must also be combined with information actions for consumers. Such actions are already planned for Christmas. Also, repression does not solve all the problems. Equally important is prevention. So the upgrading of the SYCAP that we are pursuing will achieve this objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, until the rapporteurs too come and have the full picture of the results, I propose that we continue with the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, here we are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u55	Not everyone. I do not see the rapporteur of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u56	I'm here, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u57	I'm so sorry, I didn't see you. It was my fault and strong. [[After REMUNERATION]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[MAKE THE PROTOCOL. 87a]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the vote. A total of 227 Members voted. In favour of Rule 1, namely 'NAH', they voted 201 Members. Pursuant to Rule 1, i.e. 'Notice', 21 Members voted. "PARON" have voted 5 MPs. Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. In favour of Rule 2, namely 'NAH', they voted 201 Members. Against Rule 2, i.e. 'Notice', 21 Members voted. "PARON" have voted 5 MPs. Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. In favour of Rule 3, namely 'NAH', they voted 201 Members. Against Rule 3, i.e. 'Notice', 21 Members voted. "PARON" have voted 5 MPs. Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. In favour of Rule 4, namely 'NAH', they voted 201 Members. Against Rule 4, i.e. 'Notice', 21 Members voted. "PARON" have voted 5 MPs. Article 4 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority, in accordance with the following roll-call protocol:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u58	We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u59	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u60	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u61	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u62	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u63	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u64	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u65	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u66	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘Integration of Directive 2000/43/EC implementing the principle of equal treatment of persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin, Directive 2000/78/EC establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and work and Directive 2014/54/EU on measures to facilitate the exercise of the rights of workers in the context of the free movement of workers, II) necessary measures to comply with the provisions of this Directive. 22, 23, 30, 31 par. 1,32 and 34 of Regulation No 596/2014 on market abuse and repealing Directive 2003/6/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directives 2003/124/EC, 2003/125/EC and 2004/72/EC and incorporating Directive 2014/57/EU on criminal sanctions for market abuse and Implementing Directive 2015/2392, III) incorporation of Directive 2014/62 on the protection of the euro and other currencies against counterfeiting by means of criminal law and replacing Council Framework Decision 2000/383/JHA and IV) Recommendation of the National Opportunities Investigation Mechanism in the Security and Restraint Offices and other provisions was accepted in principle and on articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u67	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u68	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u69	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u70	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u71	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u72	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u73	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u74	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘Integration of Directive 2000/43/EC implementing the principle of equal treatment of persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin, Directive 2000/78/EC establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and work and Directive 2014/54/EU on measures to facilitate the exercise of the rights of workers in the context of the free movement of workers, II)’. 22, 23, 30, 31 par. 1,32 and 34 of Regulation No 596/2014 on market abuse and repealing Directive 2003/6/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directives 2003/124/EC, 2003/125/EC and 2004/72/EC and incorporating Directive 2014/57/EU on criminal sanctions for market abuse and Implementing Directive 2015/2392, III) incorporation of Directive 2014/62 on the protection of the euro and other currencies against counterfeiting by means of criminal law and replacing Council Framework Decision 2000/383/JHA and IV) Establishment of a National Opportunities Investigation Mechanism in the security bodies and employees of detention centres and other provisions was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u76	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going back to the topical and urgent debate. We will discuss the seventh under number 231/21-11-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Iraklio of the Democratic Association of PAO.K. - P.M.A. Mr. Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the removal of obstacles to the opening of the second phase of the school building of the 1st High School of Heraklion Crete. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question concerns a very important and symbolic project for Heraklion, since the Captain's building historically has housed social structures, but over the last few years, for many decades, it has housed Heraklion's first high school. Let me say that the first phase for the restoration of the building, which mainly concerned static adequacy, was officially completed and was received in 2014. In this regard, it had been completed much earlier. After receiving the first phase, the process of integrating the project into the ESDP began. Indeed, last spring, by decision of the Regional Management Authority and the Regional Director, the project joined the 2014-2020 programme. But that's where some problems began. Mainly because of the resolution of Law 4412, which changed the institutional framework for the award of public contracts, the question arose whether the services should await the adoption of implementing and regulatory decisions - in order to auction the work after the adoption of the tender documents by the relevant ministries - or whether they could proceed in accordance with the transitional period, which the law actually granted up to April 30, 2017. To my written question, Mr Stathakis answered, first of all, that there is a transitional period and that they can proceed with the old institutional framework. The answer is from your ministry. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The Minister for Infrastructure, Mr Spirtzis, in our intervention in Parliament, on the basis of the bill discussed a week ago, said that the transitional period laid down can certainly be used and that all implementing and regulatory decisions and standards for tendering need not be adopted. He has, as he has said, taken an initiative to inform the relevant services, including the managing authority, in order to proceed with the tendering of the project. However, so far there has been dissatisfaction. There is an inertia in this regard because the institutional framework has not been completed. We would like an answer from you about what ultimately happens. Of course, we want you to tell us what you intend to do so that the competent authorities, and the municipality and the region, can proceed to tender for the project. That's the point, the auctioning of the second phase of the Captain's in Heraklion. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, before you answer to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty students and students and four educational attendants from the 15th and 17th Elementary School of Patras. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let me inform you, in order to have a full picture, that parliamentary control is being carried out at this time. This means that some Members are asking questions which, in their opinion, have an interesting timeline and are invited by the Ministers, to whom these questions refer, to answer. That is why Members are present at this sitting, only to be asked by the ministers who are answering. I say this so that you do not form a false picture of the functioning of the House. A short time ago, over two hundred fifty MPs were in the Chamber. It is now a different matter, which is why many Members are not present. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Law 4412 contains provisions directly applicable to procedures for the award and execution of public contracts. Specifically for procedures for the award of public contracts, works and studies, has been postponed until 30-4-2017, as mentioned, the use of the National System of Electronic Public Contracts (ESPI), i.e. the electronic tender. In addition, L.4412 shall be applicable from its publication and for projects and studies. The tender documents must therefore be in accordance with the provisions of the law. The pending issue of standard packages shall not prevent the auctioning of such or similar work. Already the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority has posted on its website models of declarations above and below Community limits for the award of public contracts, works and studies, precisely to assist the contracting authorities in the tender of works and before the adoption of the standards, in accordance with current law. Therefore, the work of the second phase of the Captain's court may be auctioned, provided that the tender documents have been adapted to the provisions of the new law, taking advantage of the above-mentioned models. It is noted that this project is part of the operational programme of the Region of Crete and is responsible for managing it is the Special Management Agency of Crete and not the services of our Ministry. With regard to the pre-authorisation of the tender procedures of the projects included in the NSRF 2014-2020 with audit lists harmonised with the principles introduced by Law 4412, our Ministry's services would be of assistance to the Management Authority of the Region of Crete, as they always do, in cooperation with and with the public works and study services of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and EADEISY, with a view to their immediate publication. So, yes, your work may be auctioned, before the standards come out, based on the new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. If we were to discuss for the first time, I could say that your answer is satisfactory, because it is affirmative that the second phase of the Captain's court can indeed be auctioned on the basis of tender documents that are adapted, of course, to the new law and it is not forbidden that no'standard issues' have been issued, as they are called. Minister, because the debate we are having here is taking place at the same time in the Municipality of Heraklion, in the relevant departments and in the Region of Crete and in the relevant Special Management Authority, but also in the whole of society, and because the students, teachers, the parents' association had conducted mobilisations, what we have gained from the services there is that there is not the same picture. I would therefore ask if, on the basis of the questions, the Special Management Authority has been informed to say its views and if it has sent you a document. What I am asking, namely, is whether the managing authority has answered you in writing whether or not the tender is done and whether it intends to do so. That's what I'm asking for. If he has not replied that he can do so, I would inform you that in the public debate what is happening and what he has answered to the parents - and I will give you the relevant document - he is that the transitional period for which the law, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Infrastructure is speaking only about projects financed by the Public Investment Programme. I'll give you the relevant papers. With regard to the ESRB, they say it is prerequisite to issue all implementing and regulatory acts, ministerial decisions or whatever it is, and then to auction projects from the ESRB. So, what I am asking you to do is commit - not to me, but to people who fight, to the students, to the parents, to the society of Heraklion - that the guidelines will be given to the service, because it is the single system of the NRP, it is not independent of the Greek state, so that, finally, the management authority of Crete, the Peloponnese, Central Greece, is within the single system of management of the NRP, the National Regional Development Plan, if the guidelines are given, so that, at last, the project can proceed. If that can be done, I would ask you to commit yourself, but also to do so, in substance. Otherwise, it will be another debate, which will not work. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u83	What I can tell you is that no standards are required for the NSRF. What I can tell you, too, is that there is cooperation. All actors are in cooperation. When they ask me to commit, I don't know what you're asking me to commit. All the conditions must be met.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u84	If the conditions exist, then there will be no new stumbling blocks. Let the service tell us if there are any conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u85	But that does not belong to us. That is why, you know, there is a Deputy Minister and the Region of Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u86	What Ministry is he in?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u87	The Deputy Minister is in our Ministry, he is Mr. Haritsis and is also the Region of Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, I do not respond to the Deputys, but to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u89	The major role is played by the Region of Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u90	It is not autonomous the Region of Crete, it is within the system of implementation of the NRP. Because they might be right, I don't know. If the Management Authority of the Region of Crete is right, it means that we have to wait for the implementing actions. I inform you, Minister, and with the permission of the President and the President-in-Office, that we are addressing the ministers, we cannot write 'to Mr Deputy Minister' and he comes to the House and answers us. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] I would like to thank you for what you have told us, but I would like to ask you, Mr. Haritsis and his services, to contact the Special Managing Authority, so that they can finally provide solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u91	I'll let Mr. Haritsis know how to deal with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u92	Thank you. We move on to the questions which the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Constantine Gavroglou, will answer. The first is the 11th enquiry under number 207/14-11-2016, the first question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary 2 Athens, New Democracy, Mrs. Catherine Papakostas - Ironropoulou, to the Minister of Research and Religious Education, on the completion of the upgrade of the higher technological educational institutions (ATHI). Mrs. Papakostas, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister, first of all, the protocol but also the substance of it, requires that I wish you, when you take up your duties, and hope you do so, because the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, which you have recently taken over, has recently been swept away from obsessed with and from ideologies and from views which have troubled us all. I hope you bring it up and heal it. I wish you wholeheartedly. Now, on the subject which I have chosen to ask you, it concerns, as the President mentioned earlier on, the fundamental upgrading of the higher education institutions - by law - particularly in terms of the quality of the studies provided, but also in particular because, in recent years, they have been updated with intensity and emphasis on the demand for technological educational establishments to be completed at last. And I would like to point out that the request was made and, in particular, your Ministry's legislative initiative with the previous political leadership, because the state has a follow-up. Therefore, the bills of your Ministry, which have already been passed or are expected to be submitted to plenary in the next few years, have at least in their original form - the philosophy of the legislator, that is, Minister - unfortunately, still maintains the distinction between universities and higher technological educational institutions. The Presidents of these higher technological educational establishments therefore request that these institutions, as we legally owe them, be renamed to universities of applied sciences, following the model of other European countries. I'll develop it in my dentistry, Minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. So I asked, as I have to say, the following: First, do you intend to make a practical contribution to the completion of the academic upgrading of higher education institutions, in particular by enabling them and the third cycle of study? Secondly, in Cyprus there is a model, which is successfully implemented, and that is the model of technological universities. In particular, with regard to the professional rights of graduates from the respective departments of universities, is this political will to do so? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u94	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Madam President. I thank Mrs Papakostas for her wishes, but also for something else. This is the first time I have answered questions, as Minister of Education, and your question gives me the opportunity to say some things about which I am sure there will be a huge consensus in this Chamber. So thank you for the question. As you well know, TEIs have been recorded in the consciousness of society as something that comes after the universities. I think it's an unfair situation for TEIs. I am convinced of the quality of our colleagues there, but also of the important work they do. The Greek state and the Greek society were unable to incorporate in substance the special role that TEI could play for so many years. Because you know - and I do not want the speech to be opposition - they were made without substantial planning, but the mergers and closures began to be done without substantial planning. So now we have a set of issues - I am not saying problems - which need to be dealt with. I have met the Presidents of the Higher Technology Education Institutions and I think we have started a debate on the substance. In fact - and I say this in public for the first time - I will try to hold a joint meeting with the presidencies of the meeting of senior technological institutions, the presidents of the TEIs and the research institutes. These three bodies, I think, have not sat together at the same table to discuss the problems. So that brings me to the heart of the answer I would like to give you. And the heart of the answer is that these issues should be resolved in a single area of research and education. If we accept that there is a triangle with the tops, at one is the universities, on the other is the TEIs, on the third is the research institutes. These relationships have been frozen over the past twenty years. These must therefore be redefined. And they must discuss with each other the people who are at TEIs, universities and research centres. In this sense we have also decided with the presidents of the TEIs to become a series of seminars, which will be organized jointly with the universities. So the issues you raise are extremely serious. For my part, I should like to tell you about the third course of study because there obviously have to be some assessments in this process. So I do not want to commit myself to anything, nor to say that it will not happen, but to say that the process that I described will begin. I hope - we have not had many discussions, but with other New Democracy colleagues I have had many discussions - to find a common place to strengthen these processes that we are going to launch. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u96	Mrs. Papakostas, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I am pleased to say this: I am pleased that together we are launching a new cycle through my question, immediately after your duties have been taken over by the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs of our country. I will also tell you that I hope to open a new circle on your days for non-public universities. Because I consider at least as obsessed and idealistic of another era and obsolete perceptions the fact that young people, Greeks and Greeks are leaving abroad, while we can offer high quality services, focusing on the public university. That's what we're interested in. On the other hand, however, with universities which are not public - that is to say, to break this State monopoly - the country will benefit very much and at the level of the quality of the studies provided. I hope this cycle will open up on your day, because you spoke of the unregulated merger, etc. This applies everywhere, throughout the whole range of higher education both in the HEIs and in the higher technological institutions, and at some point it should be seen in the light of needs, real needs, which are available and measurable. For evaluation, essentially, you know that there is an institutionalised way of evaluating the level of quality of the studies provided to higher education institutions in the country. There is an independent authority, which is the so-called PPP, that is, the quality assurance principle. Already the highest technological education institutions in our country have been in the process and have finished the evaluations, which are recent and I must tell you that the results are extremely impressive in favour of our country's top technological educational institutions. Excellently positive. Of course, these evaluations do not indicate anywhere that there are sections which do not correspond to the level of higher education technology. In addition, I must tell you that there are reports in there - to be informed, you will see it with your partners - that certain departments of higher education institutions are capable of organising a third course. There is, Minister, and ladies and gentlemen, the mistaken impression - you have also referred to it quite a bit - that the criterion for assessing the quality of an HR is the number of importers. That's completely wrong, and it's far away. It's fictio iuris, it's totally fictitious. In this sense, it was assumed somewhere that there was also the degree of devaluation, "degradation" of the TEIs, which are considered to be "paradic" - to allow me the term far away from me. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The answer is that the Greek import system - Madam President, half a minute - plays an important role in the location of an institution, as centrals are generally preferred for regionals and therefore this cannot be a criterion. I'm ending this, Minister. In Greece we have discovered everything since ancient times, but now it seems to me that we have the impression that we need to discover the wheel again. That's not right. There are good practices. There is the single model of the structure of higher education, which is applied very successfully in Great Britain, also in Cyprus. I would suggest that by my question, after you opened the debate, we go there so that, as Cyprus did, there can be this single model of higher education structure and public higher education. There we have the traditional university, as we know, but also the newly established technological university, which I must tell you is an emphasis on technological science and certainly has the potential to conduct doctoral programmes. So in practice they did what we are now asking for, namely the distinction between the graduates of the institutions concerned. So I have this proposal for you. In your debut, in your premiere here, in the Greek Parliament to process it and look at it - I hope soon - in a draft law which, at last, will solve in a definitive, effective and happy way the outcome of a timely problem. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u98	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u99	I hope that the theatrical conditions you have used for today's debate do not imply anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u100	It's a high level of education.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u101	I agree with you. That is what I fully agree with you. You said that you hope in my day that the debate on non-State universities begins. I hope this debate doesn't start in my day. We have serious differences. We'll talk about them when the time comes. I fully agree with you on the IP. There is indeed an instrument that does this work. I hope, however, that we agree that the IPQ must be upgraded. We all have to agree that there has been a circle. Take advantage of the experience of this period and see how the PPP can play a more active role. I will soon bring a grid of ideas to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, and we can discuss it there. You are absolutely right, I have said so in public and in the TEI colleagues, that many TEI departments are all about to start teaching doctorals. I have no doubt, and I do not say that as an alibi. Just, what we have to do, we have to do it in a uniform way, so that they do not start saying 'the possibility is given to this part, the other is given, the other, pressure to be given to the third'. You know what I mean. Unfortunately, we are living in an extremistly skilled society. This, the political system collects it in a way that I really do not know where it is going. I have said, and I tell you again, that it is an extremely serious risk to our democracy as such. That's why I'm saying we're going to come up with it. The greater consensus there is, the better. After we had the agreement to go to such arrangements. I conclude with the point of introduction you have said. You're absolutely right. It is a system that has canceled the educational process, and that is a subject that we will discuss in the Committee on Education. For the model you said, I agree with you on something you implied. Do not enter into logic, neither as a government of SYRIZA nor as a opposition, that we are discovering new ideas, which no one has ever implemented, nor has ever said. The question is how in our days, in 2016-2017, we will be able to make positive use of any foreign experiences and our own and to do something that is not a mechanical copying, but to be something that will actually be long-term, obviously for the good of our society. So here, I hope and I'm sure, as I've told you, I've had very detailed discussions with your colleagues and I'd like to have...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u102	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u103	...to find a consensual framework so that we can move on with these issues. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u105	Thank you. The ninth under number 69/10-10-2016 topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the proposal - "resurrection" for red loans, will not be discussed due to the Member's emergency. The tenth under number 146/27-10-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Economy and Development, concerning measures to combat the smuggling of fuel in the offices, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Minister, as the General Secretariat of the Government has informed. The fifth, number 175/7-11-2016, timely question of the first cycle of the MP Iraklio of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the need to directly institutionalise the special non-confidential account for all businesses, will not be discussed since the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Catherine Papanatziou, has misguided obligations. The fourth question under number 105/17-10-2016 by MP II Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks, George Lazarides, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the incomplete maintenance of the Root Distribution Network (DEDEE) in South Evia will not be discussed as a result of an obstruction from the relevant Minister. Also, the twelfth under number 127/18-10-2016, a timely question by the Member of the Ionian Parliamentary of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Research and Religious Education, on the problems of student housing at the Ionian University of Epirus, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the honourable Member. Finally, the first question by No 458/18-10-2016 question by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Nikolaos Papadopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the transfer of trainees to open social welfare centres will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister responsible. Now we will discuss the second question by Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos, the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the Government's intentions to upgrade and improve the proper functioning of the Department of TEI of Western Greece, based in the Tower. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I had tabled to your predecessor, Mr. Philis, a question on October 25 concerning the Government's intentions to upgrade and improve the proper functioning of the section of the TEI of Western Greece, based in the Towers. It was the remodeling, you took it, you didn't answer the question, so I have the opportunity to talk about it here alive, waiting for your answers. I appreciate that your attendant, our fellow MEP of SYRIZA from Ilias and the State Secretary, will have informed you of the many problems faced by the Department of Administration, Economy, Communication, Political and Tourism Units of TEI of Western Greece, which is located in Pyrgos. Such problems also have the other section based in Amaliada, which I have asked you to answer if you will claim to exploit the facilities in Corovo for educational reasons. You haven't answered me. Make sure you answer. We'll come back here with a timely question. In the meantime, reshape and take over. I would not have expected you to answer me as a new Minister, but there were some facts in the meantime, Minister, which have raised more concerns. One fact is that Mrs Zafiropoulou, the President of the department, informing her students in the middle of the week, told them that it is very difficult for the department to carry out the educational work, as teachers and workshops are missing. It's practically abandoned. The dramatic fact is that yesterday the President of TEI of Western Greece, Mr. Triantafylos, ceased from her duties, Mrs. Zafiropoulou. I don't know if you know. She was appointed as a professor of another department. By taking a look at the legislation that you too have voted on, it is considered an illegal act. Is this in your knowledge? What are your intentions and how will you restore the proper functioning of the department? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u107	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Koutsouko, thank you for giving me the opportunity to repeat a little of what I said before to Mrs Papacosta. I have met with all the presidents of the TEIs to be able to draw up a course of proper operation and, in essence, an upgrade of the TEIs. As I have often said, there are classes of excellent quality, there are departments that want great help so that they can continue their work. You also know very well that we are "paying" sins of the past, that is to say, most of these institutions became unscheduled, then merged, closed again without programming and paid by local communities, but they are also paid by the employees at the academic and administrative staff of the TEI. Indeed, I saw the issues of Western Greece's TEIs in detail. There are very serious problems. It would be wrong to say that there are no. You know that, with the distribution of our positions, we have given several positions to the TEIs in Western Greece. Nevertheless, we must keep at the heart of your reflection, because no matter how new positions you give, if there is no fundamental policy on the future of TEIs, neither TEI nor the universities nor the research centres will be upgraded. That is why our own policy is to be able to secure the conditions for what we call a single area of education and research. There will be specific initiatives in this regard, as I said to Mrs Papakostas, and very specific government commitments. I don't want to take the time today, we'll have a huge opportunity to talk about it. I have also spoken with many colleagues of your own party who are aware of these issues as well as I do, and I hope that we will also find a consensual framework to move forward. What you said to me now is an extremely serious matter. I don't know the details. Obviously, the Foundations have one autonomy and it is good that they have autonomy to resolve the differences between them. Obviously, such an act must come to the Ministry and we will see the legitimacy of this act. However, on the occasion of your question and the incident you mentioned, I think we should all call on the institutions, the TEIs, the universities, the research centres to try to find ways to solve the problems. Administrative acts of this nature, regardless of who is right and unfair, cannot be part of the solution. I would therefore call on colleagues through dialogue, through the institutions, to be able to find solutions not to worsen the climate, which is always a problem when there are such extreme administrative acts. I insist that I am not talking about the legality of the act, it may be legal, it may not be, I will see it when it comes to the services. The important thing, however, is that there should be a debate on the issues and, if it is possible to resolve any problems consensually. As far as the facility is concerned, I'm not ready to answer you. My opinion is that we must also go to all of Greece, because I have heard the same problem from other parts of the full use of facilities that I have at the moment realized that many are closed and nobody is using them at the local level. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor to answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u110	Minister, I would like to welcome - in introductory terms always - your mild word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u111	Why in quotes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u112	In order to avoid misunderstanding, as the ministers and SYRIZA are not used to us for this reason. He's usually denounced. And they denounce the previous ones, as it is natural. So I say that I will agree with this style, and particularly with what you said about the need for consultation and consensus on the major issues of education, which are obviously not party policies. Put an asterisk here, or I'll come back. You know the problems. You said that we need to resolve the building, that we need to look at the issues that have to do with the teachers, with the administrative staff and, above all, with the overall perspective. I agree with you. Minister, I want you to know that Elia has entered the map of higher education for the first time in the 1990s with two sections of TEI, one in the Tower and one in the Amalada, because your fellow academics and political leaders at the University of Peloponnese made it in the way they built it, excluding Elia, and the University of Patras does not include us and a University of Additives, that of Western Greece in Agrini. Elia was out. These two sections embraced local society. In Amaliada with municipal authority initiatives we have buildings, new students have come and the bases are up. In the Tower there are these problems that forced a lasting citizen, the first citizen of the city, to say at some point "let's get it". Local society has risen and today, with unanimous decisions of the municipal council, the demand is for upgrading and conversion to school. So I do not know how this can be done and what perspective we can see. But watch out for this. A department that has no labs, so students can get into a full teaching process and get supplies to get out of the market tomorrow, obviously has no prospect. These are the issues that need to be resolved. I want the next time we come here orally or in writing to tell us specific things. I repeat, I don't want to be strict with you as you are a new Minister. Under no circumstances shall we accept what has been attempted in the past, namely in the name of the dispersal that is downgrading the educational work, and collect everything in a campus. Well, we weren't England, Cambridge and Oxford, unfortunately, Professor! We need to see the reality. So you need to see with what measures you will upgrade these sections. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I'm done with the asterisk. I took a few calls last night, since the timeline, which was not scheduled, was planned, and they told me about this administrative act of the President, which I would like to condemn. I took a look at the legislative framework - 2016 is the government of SYRIZA - which says that we cannot bring another professor from another department to do it there and defines what the composition of the branch's provisional assembly is. The asterisk has to do, Professor, by informing me that this teacher is a prominent SYRIZA official in Achaia. I believe that it is one of those who think - and I told Mrs Anagnostopoulou - who says that we should take the departments back to Patras. That's why they keep the labs. That is what I want you to see as a policy that has to do with the insides of the educational community, which, like all bureaucracy, does not want to change one chair in order to serve the needs of a society and the educational needs. Please, Minister, if you are not ready to give me answers today, give them real effect, and let me not believe them, let me credit them politically. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u113	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u114	Thank you. To start with the installation issue. This is a very serious matter. I note, in fact, that we will proceed with a record not only in the Tower or in Amaliada, but in general to see what is going on with the issue of installations so that we can make full use of this element. With regard to the other thing you said to me, I think we both have to agree - it is also Mr Mavrotas here who is well known to the teachers - that we need to strengthen the autonomy of higher education institutions. Do we agree on that? When we strengthen autonomy, it means that the functioning of these institutions must have a greater responsibility, because they are no longer public officials. They perform another kind of function, have the responsibility of these institutions. Now, what happened in this case, not only do I not know it, but if I don't have a service I don't want to know about it. You know what I mean. Because it is right not to interfere in these matters. Having said that, you know that both because of my experience and because of my position in university, etc., I recognize, I understand, I condemn them and they go by saying. So I'm making an appeal not to pull the rope until it breaks. Now, if my colleague is SYRIZA or is not SYRIZA and so on, neither the Ministry really should be concerned about these nor anyone else in substance. That's the one thing. Second one. You are right that the first reaction is to close these things, take them to a campus in general, because this and spatial and educational plays a greater role. That's the one end. The other end is to accept this incredible panoramic that exists. Isn't that right? And as you know, in one of the things we have a national consensus with the MPs of all the parties it is when you go to hurt something locally. I do not say that because there is a policy to close everything, to transfer it there, and so on, but I say that we also need local communities to see how these institutions can help. Because if local society only does it, because there is obviously a world that consumes, etc., it does not help this training. It obviously helps a suppressive economic function of local society. I would therefore ask you in particular - and Mr Baxvanakis knows - to meet with Mr Baxvanakis a delegation which does not tell us about the details of the problems, but to tell us how she imagines the prospect of them in order to take account of any policy. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u115	The fourteenth debate under number 203/14-11-2016 will be preceded by a topical question by the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Ioannis Giokas, about the repression and persecution of the struggling students. The Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs will answer Mr. Dimitrios Baxvanakis. Mr. Giokas has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, it is the first time after several years, if I am not mistaken after 2001, where we have arrests, prosecutions and sentences of students to participate in struggles and mobilisations that they decide with their institutions and procedures. Arrests and persecutions were there, but now we have both students' convictions and not only students, we also have threats to parents who are, as they have to, acting in these struggles of their children with the threat of neglecting child supervision. The cases that exist lately are not one and two, are not individual, are quite enough and are specifically mentioned in the timely question that we put. I mention: In Lamia, on October 20th, police forces were raided by the prosecutors, using even cages, as if I did not know who they had to arrest, Pablo Escobar or Al Capone, in the 5th and 6th Lamia High, in the 2nd PAAL, in the Night High School of Lamia, arresting students who were in their schools and are in the pre-examination phase. Similar events have taken place in Grevenna, Kefalonia, Heraklion, Crete. A few days ago, there was sentenced to minors by the Monomele Court of Minors by means of reform measures for students who took part in student mobilizations. The most recent is the arrest of a member of the U.N.E.A., following a complaint from the school director, on the charge of stimulation in an attempt to disturb home peace. Today is the trial of the member of the CNE in Kilkis, for which statements of sentence have been issued by mass bodies of teachers, parents, workers and the only ones who have supported these unacceptable actions of the director are the New Democracy and the Golden Dawn. That's where someone can draw a conclusion. In our view these facts are outrageous. I repeat, this is the first time after many years of convicted students. And from this point of view, it is the government, which, in the past, celebrated the abolition - and rightly abolished - of the legislative instrument on democratic freedoms, democratic rights, but, in practice, an authoritarianism continues, not only continues, but also escalates. In this respect, what we ask with this question is: What measures will the government take to stop these persecutions against students, stop threats to parents and, of course, put all those assumptions directly into the file, either on the basis of the act of law or other criminal provisions, and remove any sentences of students for the above actions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u117	Mr Dimitrios Baxvanakis, Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Gioka, as you well know, justice in Greece is independent and the public prosecutors act in accordance with the spirit of the laws, according to the letter of the laws and not following government orders. After all, there are a number of recent court rulings - and I am referring specifically to the highest courts - with which the entire Greek society knows that the government does not agree. However, it must respect and implement these decisions. What can the government do? He can legislate. And, as you have rightly said, it is recent that the legislation of the Ministry of Education under Article 45 of which Law 2811/2000 was repealed, which had ratified the famous act of legislation that the whole educational community knows was criminalising student mobilisation within school spaces. This law, which has been in force for fifteen years and has been implemented several times, has been abolished by the SYRIZA Government. What happened in the cases mentioned in your timely question, according to what the competent prosecutors and in the case of Lamia, which is the most serious of all? The Prosecutor's Lamia Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office states: "In the 1st PESAL Lamia, where he went to police force on our order and our presence - the prosecutor's office found that he was burning cobble and chairs, eight and five respectively, a six-year-old student and an extra-school adult was arrested. The student was released and the adult extracurricular was referred to the audience. At the 2nd PESAL Lamias, after repeated complaints by parents and again in our presence and on our request - again the prosecutor - went police force at the school where he found - according to the Prosecutor's words - that while the students were preparing to leave school, a parent student stood in front of the entrance of the courtyard and urged them to stay in school." I do not think you have the view that students need suggestions and, much more, guidance on how they will practice one way or another and how they choose to behave in a racing mobilisation. It shall be completed by the Advocate-General: "After the determination of their identity, all students have been released." [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I will tell you about the other cases you refer to your question. The Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office reports that a case-file was formed, which was filed. The Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office also reports that a case-file was formed, which was filed. Finally, the Prosecutors' Prosecutor's Office reports that there was criminal prosecution against three minor disciples. However, the Unique Acoustic of Minors Kefalonia considered that the minors were not guilty because of the abolition of Law 2811. So we abolished the 1999 Act of Legislative Action, and the Kefalonia court has therefore dismissed the students.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u119	Are you finished, Mr. Undersecretary?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u120	Let's not go on. I'm going to go on in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr Giokas, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the "Research and we are discussing Governor Ioannis Kapodistrias", who is organizing the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and two educational attendants from the 16th Gymnasium of Peristeri. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Today this House is empty, as you can see, because it is a parliamentary control procedure. The parties, in other words, ask the Ministers questions about various issues which the Minister is interested in and answers the questions. We're in the last questions. Today the programme had nine questions. So the previous ones have received the answers from different ministers. Now we are in the question concerning the Ministry of Education. You heard it was about the persecution of the students who participated in the mobilisations of their schools. If you have time, you can follow the follow-up. Thank you for visiting the House. Here, Mr Gioka, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u122	Minister, I am not surprised that the arguments you have put forward, at least in your protology, are the same arguments that we heard from previous governments when we tabled similar questions on their own days - timely and simple - in relation to similar cases in schools. You mentioned the cases - not all - which exist in the question. First of all, as far as Lamia is concerned, it has nothing to do with what the prosecutor describes as actually the case. In the rest, however, you too admitted that a case-file was formed. And in the case of Heraklion, the case was filed after pressure from the institutions, the parents' associations, and it goes on to say. There is the case of Thessaloniki, which was convicted - there was a conviction! - and impose reform measures. There's a case in Kilkis where the trial is being conducted today. I don't know if all this is normal or you think it's not going to happen. You also said that the act of legislation was abolished. Of course the act of legislation has been abolished. We voted for it too, since it was also a request. What do I do, however, if the act of law is abolished and authoritarianism continues on the basis of other criminal laws? The result is the same. Do you know what the legal basis is on which the member of the Kilkis is being tried? It is Rule 184- that the President knows them much better - and he refers to stimulus for committing crimes. We are talking about a provision of the Criminal Code since 1951, since the authoritarian, reactionary and post-war state, which in practice simulates the call in a mobilisation, in a form of struggle - and you have previously supported these forms - by stimulation for committing crime. That's why we say she's unprecedented and unacceptable all these phenomena. You also said: Justice is independent. Well, that's cliché now. We hear it all the time. It's the refuge for every government when it can't respond specifically. Excuse me, it's not justice independent. Justice judges and decides on the basis of the laws adopted by the government or not by the government. I say this because we in our question are asking us - and we have not received an answer - to have a governmental initiative - and, if necessary, to put all these pending cases in the file and to remove any consequences for convictions that have already existed. Also, the courts and judges, Mr Minister, judge on the basis of a more general climate, which is also shaped by the Government's attitude. For example, when there are cases of school directors, like the one in Kilkis, who are resorting to such practices and the government is not taking a stand or silently deafening view, then of course it is like giving a signal to both the judiciary and the courts, "keep on, there is no problem". Then, here, it is not just the question of authoritarianism in the field of education, on the occasion of these incidents. The ban on protests we had two weeks ago, which there was no mediation of justice over there. It was a government decision to ban concentrations, I mean in case of Obama visit. It is a policy that is implemented - anti-grassroots, we say - which is accompanied by authoritarianism. That is why today you are coming as a government to defend practices which you have denounced as opposition and to use arguments used by previous governments. We insist and reinstate the question: What measures will the government take - obviously, it is not just a matter of your own, it is also a matter of the Ministry of Justice, but, when we talk about cases of autocracy in education, it is primarily an educational and pedagogical issue - in order to eliminate all these persecutions, get into the file of cases and not to be repeated in the future?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u123	Minister, you have the floor. I would ask that the time should be respected, because the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has also started and I would like to follow it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Gioka, maybe I didn't make it clear in my prototype. I repeat, therefore, that the government respects the independence of justice and does not in any way wish to point to what action it must take.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u125	Is he going to point to the managers?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u126	On the other hand, we reiterate in the most emphatic way that the government does not agree with the criminalisation of trade union action at any level, much more with the criminalisation of the racing mobilisations of minor pupils. We are expressing this as clearly as possible. On the other hand, you are right that there may be some articles in the Criminal Code, in which we should see their amendment or, possibly, their abolition. It would be interesting to hear your opinion on this as well. I imagine that these articles do not include the article relating to the damage of public property. It would be interesting if you had the view that this article should be abolished too. However, in the light of your question, I would like to make a more general comment on the phenomenon of student mobility and the form of occupation, which has been used for many years now. In this particular case of Lamia, which has the most prominent character, as stated by the Regional Department of Central Greece, in the schools of Lamia, which became the student mobilizations, there was no gap in educational staff and no lack of books. Decisions on the occupation were taken without convening the general meeting of the pupils and without a meeting of the fifteen-member student council of the school communities. Because the Greek society, all of us, and you know how the occupations of school units are carried out in the vast majority of cases - not all, to be honest - we all have to care for our ears. It is not a student mobilisation when a small group of students - three, five, ten - closes the school, ignorant of the overwhelming majority of the other pupils, and even without any kind of democratic and collective process being observed. We are all mistaken to mock ears and cultivate the illusion to young people that such moves are, supposedly, racing mobilisations. In practice, we do not cultivate racing consciences in young people, nor do we promote democracy or collective processes, which in practice are being undermined. These things do not benefit democracy. On the contrary, they turn the carpet to those who have nothing to do with democracy. I think you understand who I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u127	Thank you. The last one will now be discussed, the thirteenth, with number 185/8-11-2016, with a timely question for the first cycle of the MP of Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the immediate coverage of educational gaps in the professional high school of Crete. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Madam President. As you said, the question concerns the lack of teachers in vocational schools. For this reason, many schools and many students were and are in mobilizations and, indeed, through collective procedures. Will you listen to them? Do not reconstruct the same argument they used and continue, of course, to use the New Democracy and the PASOK, because they did not change the nature and role of either the New Democracy or the PASOK or the whole of all the parties on the Euro-Roman Road, which embrace the OECD's education and education directives. You started, as a government, with a slogan: 'New principle for vocational schools'. That was your motto. Despite assurances and announcements to upgrade technical education, the timely placement of teachers in schools, the reality is quite different. The first recruits of substitute technical skills took place on October 11, 2016, i.e. one month after the start of the course. However, the gaps remain, they have not been covered. In Crete, for example, there are still gaps in PAALs and not only. I say 'not only' because you have taken sixteen thousand deputies of primary and secondary education, while last year's recruitment was twenty-three thousand, which, of course, were not enough too. In Heraklion Crete the gaps that relate to critical specialities are as follows: high school, high school, PAAL, sixty - I refer to a total of twenty-five, musical and artistic school 15. I'm talking about schools as a whole, to show you how global and great the problem is. On the basis of data from ELTEE, of the Association of Technical Training Officers, Heraklion on 24-10-2016, the gaps in the technical skills of PESAL teachers in Crete are eighty-four: thirty-three in Heraklion, twenty-four in Chania, twelve in Lasithi, fifteen in Rethymnon. In particular, in Heraklion, there are gaps which have not been covered, on the basis of the figures - I repeat - given to us by ELTEE, as well as the PYPAS service councils, many of which concern pan-language courses such as the Architecture Plan in the field of construction, engineering, agriculture and IT. Also, in some large sections of the laboratory courses there is no second teacher, while it is necessary for a second teacher to enter. It's necessary, that is. As a result, in view of everything that I mentioned before, we ask you: What are the immediate measures to fill this gap in the shortages of teachers - that is to say, the recruitment of all the staff required - so that this situation, even lately, is normalized in vocational schools, and not - I repeat - only? Because there are shortcomings in both high school and high school and they also concern Crete and the country as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u129	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u130	Mr Synthraki, thank you very much for the question, because we are given the opportunity to discuss the great problem of meeting the educational needs of our country. It is a problem that in recent years has been gradually exacerbated by the lack of permanent appointments since 2012 and here. As the political leadership of the Ministry of Education has repeatedly announced, and the previous and current ones, it is our immediate aim to fill most of these gaps, which are not temporary gaps, but which cover constant and constant needs and therefore have to be covered by permanent appointments, and to be able to make twenty thousand permanent recruitments of teachers in the public sector over the next three years. But there is also a certain situation, which is important not to all pretend that we are ignoring it. It is the fiscal situation of the country that the entire Greek society knows and it is good that we do not all consider in our debates that we are talking vacantly. In the circumstances of the current school year, therefore, appropriations have been provided for the recruitment of about twenty-thousand assistant teachers. I am referring to both levels of education, first and foremost. In particular, in secondary education, to which your topical question refers, more than five and a half thousand assistant teachers have been recruited to date and on both levels more than seventeen thousand have been recruited. We will reach the figure of twenty-one thousand, for which we have secured credit, and we believe that the vast part of the gaps will be covered. Especially for the region of Crete, to which you refer, four hundred and fifty alternate teachers have been recruited in secondary education, of which eighty are in Heraklion Prefecture. With last visits last Monday, November 28th, another thirty alternates were recruited in all the counties of Crete, of which thirteen were in Heraklion. For professional grades, in particular, they have been recruited to date in technical qualifications of one hundred and three alternate teachers, of which ninety-one full-time and twelve reduced hours. I would, however, like to take this opportunity, Mr Syntagakis, to mention the reasons why the recruitment of assistants in vocational schools is usually delayed. There are three reasons why the formation of the departments is not as we would like on 11 September, but is delaying. What are these reasons? One is the possibility for students to change their preferences for selecting a different sector than the one they first chose. He goes to school and in a few weeks he realizes that his choice does not satisfy him and is given the opportunity to change sector. The second reason is that in many cases there are few sections of vocational schools. These departments must first be approved to calculate the needs of educational staff and the gaps that will need to be covered. In Crete, in fact, the operation of a hundred and a half parts of PAAL has been approved and of these twenty-three parts are in Heraklion. The third reason for delaying the formation of departments is that children of high school graduates, who wanted to be enrolled in the IEKs but for certain reasons they did not manage to register there, enrolled in a professional high school to acquire a specialty. These three reasons for delaying the formation of sections. They are reasons why we want to alleviate as far as possible next school year, but without depriving any child of the right to choose. However, we want all these choices to be made quite early, so that the departments are also set up in time and the needs of educational staff can be estimated relatively soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Madam President. You referred to the delays, justifying, in any case, the delays in recruitment, because there are technical problems, etc., until the students decide where to go, how to do so, etc. But, beware, you said, before the school year began, that schools and teachers were opening up. He's not in his place. So what's going on here? You know, here's a contradiction. In other words, you are saying that there is this harsh budgetary situation, which does not allow us to recruit permanent staff. It is, however, a budgetary situation for which you are responsible, the rest of the parties, the New Democracy and the PASOK, the Potamian Republic, who have voted for a third memorandum and continue to apply the first and the second Memorandum. This is reflected in the area of education, staff, with substitutes, which will also be extended with other flexible forms of employment and education. So here we are not discussing your intention. Nice to meet you. The intention of all possible is that. But the policy here tells you quite different things. Of course, we are very grateful for the information you have given us. We don't say how many recruitments you've made, but we want to see the difference and what's finally going on in the jumbo, how many shortcomings. Is it true that there are eighty-four gaps in Crete with specific specialties in the pan-Hellenic courses in question? It's a specific question. Watch out. One, the shortcomings of education and skills. We have a decision of the Ministry of Education - yours - on 28-9-2016 for the operation of a few departments in the PESAL, on which you impose "axe", you cut. What does that recommend? Does it not constitute a policy that it says, a continuous deterioration in technical vocational education? On the substance, this decision gradually closes sections throughout the country. If you have not done so so up to now, progressively, on the basis of the specific decision of the Ministry of Education, that means. Secondly, we have a shrinking of general education courses, such as, for example, the deterioration of philosophical courses in the PESA after the changes that you made to the Ministry of Education this year in the curriculum. We remind you that only one hour a week is history taught in the First High School, while unifying the Greek language and neo-Greek literature, reintroduced books that had been stopped, had been withdrawn in 2007, which used them in the TEIs. Third, by Act of Legislative content in December 2015, supplementing the Law of the New Democracy and of the 2013 PASOK, promote and implement the institution of apprenticeship, i.e. free work in enterprises and early exploitation. This is provided for in the programme of training at the workplace, "workplace learning". It is clear that these are provisions that apply and strengthen the spirit and letter of the law of the previous New Democracy - PASOK for the PES, as well as the directions of the European Union and the OECD in the name of apprenticeship. And, of course, there are many other problems, such as specialty books. There are still in electronic form, in particular the programming courses, which are the main lesson for the pan-Hellenic exams, where teachers print it to learn. There is also a question of the transfer of pupils. It's an increased cost. We can't get through this. So, Minister, there is a great deal of proclamation. They're nice. But it's a blank letter and they go for a walk when reality is tough. In other words, we have shortages of teachers, collapsing and merging of skills, so degradation of content, axe in the few sections, deterioration of general education courses, inappropriate books, laboratory shortages, generalization of apprenticeships. This is the landscape today in the PESALs and in the field of education as a whole. And because these are the guidelines of the OECD - that is, the overall deterioration downwards - in the evaluation we will have a categorisation, a differentiation in the school as a whole. I shall conclude, Madam President. It also appeared from the answer given by Mr Gavroglou a moment ago to another timely question, in which he said that he prefers autonomy in universities - and we complement it, because this is your intention - autonomy as a whole at all levels of education, by putting in and across local societies, in terms of responsibility and funding, which means that chambers, churches, NGOs and every worker will put his hand in the pocket, so that schools can function. So we do not agree, and that is why we are calling on you to tell us very specifically whether the educational gaps will be immediately covered, so as not to close any section of the ESDP, if all shortcomings and lost hours are covered, because until now we have lost hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Covenant, you've broken a record.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u134	So in one way you have to cover these lost hours and all the rest, anyway, we have told you. Thank you for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u135	What am I supposed to do? Get out of here? I can't. Here, Minister, you only have the floor for three minutes, please. I appealed to you before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u136	Mr Synthyriakis, you can understand that you have almost put the mesh of an educational policy and the reaction of your arguments and tonights would need an entire debate, especially on the question of education policy, which you understand is not the time and it does not allow time to take place today. In summary, I answer you: We are not pleased with the situation of the employment of educational staff and the coverage of the gaps so far in the current school year. However, we have to find out what all Greek society knows, that this year things are much better than every other year. For the elastic working relationships, I have told you that our pursuit is gradually, within three years most of the needs to be met by appointment of permanent teachers. About the few sections, you're not right. This year, a thousand hundred and fifty-sixteen sections have been approved and operated in the PES of the country, which is about 1/3 of the operating sections. And especially in Crete today, there are hundreds of three parts. For today's loopholes, of course, the evidence you mentioned was true on the day that the timely question was tabled, but this reality is not today. According to data from the Department of Vocational Education, in Heraklion Prefecture there are only four specialization gaps in PSAs, which will be attempted within the next few days. Overall now, because you have generalised the issue of vocational education and our perception, we are indeed proud of the changes that we are taking place in vocational schools. The fact that the new structure of the ESDP ensures that there is no early specialization of students, that the first class is uniform and enables children to choose a more mature sector in the second class and even one year later, in the third class to choose specialization is a concept in which the educational movement and our government simply implemented these concepts. In relation to the metaly year and apprenticeship, we fully disagree with your understanding. The establishment we have done enables students to practice in real working conditions with the supervision of the school, with full working rights, with full insurance, with a wage of 75% of the minimum wage and additional laboratory education at school.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u137	Where's how much? Is it 17 euros?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u138	I would suggest that, before you continue to support these views, you go to PPAI, ask teachers and students what their views on the post-training year and the class of apprenticeships are and then come back to this Chamber and soberly discuss it, since you will also have enriched your views. And finally, another fundamental change that we have made in relation to vocational education is that for the first time, pupils of professional high school are given the opportunity to enter the universities as well as not just the TEI, as was the case until now. All of these are practical evidence that vocational education is a priority of our Government, so that it can no longer be the dismissal of secondary education, but be an equal pillar, so that students and their parents can freely choose the type of school they want on the basis of their real needs and not the perception of a downgraded or upgraded school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u140	Madam President, may I ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u141	No, Mr. Covenant. You can ask him the question, but without being at the hearing of all Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u142	Madam President, I will not open a debate. It is a very clear question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u143	No, Mr. Synatiakis, it's over. I told you I have a parliamentary group. You can ask him personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u144	But, Madam President, it is about the evidence he has announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u145	I won't allow it. It doesn't make any sense. You've spoken for five and a half minutes. I don't know what time means to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u146	I'm not the only one, Madam President. How many people spoke five minutes when you weren't here? Don't blame me all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u147	The Member of the New Republic, Mr Konstantinos Skrekas, shall request permission from a short-day absence abroad from 7 December to 8 December 2016 and from 11 December to 15 December 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u148	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-02-S1-commons.u149	With the consent of the House at 13.32 p.m., the sitting on Monday, December 5, 2016 at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work, is closed: topical and urgent questions.
