ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Department's approval from 21-7-2016, the PRXST (in the evening) minutes of its meeting of Thursday, 21 July 2016, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Representation of political parties, extension of the right to elect and other provisions on the election of MPs’.]] We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only a discussion and a vote on the principle of Articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks: ‘Compatification of legislation by Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on the creation of a single European railway area (OJ L343/32, 14.12.2012) and other provisions’. This bill, following a decision taken by the Standing Committee on Production and Trade, on a proposal from the Minister responsible, is being discussed in accordance with the urgency procedure, in accordance with Rule 76(4) of the Constitution and Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. I would also like to remind you that, in accordance with this procedure, the debate is closed at a meeting, in principle and on articles. The rapporteurs and special speakers, the Prime Minister, the Minister responsible, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and one of their representatives are involved in the debate. The speech shall be limited to half the time provided for in Rules 97 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. I propose that five speakers from SYRIZA be given the floor, three speakers from New Democracy, one speaker from the Golden Dawn, one speaker from the Democratic Incorporation, one speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, one speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, one speaker from the Potami, one speaker from the Independent Greeks, one from the Centron Association and one from the Independent Members. I also propose that the debate on the principle and the articles should be uniform. With regard to speaking time, I propose that the rapporteurs and special speakers have twelve minutes of speaking time, the competent Minister, 13 minutes, the remaining ministers and State Secretarys eight minutes, the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, as well as the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group 14 minutes, the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups twelve minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives ten minutes and those appointed by the parties seven minutes. Dentality is limited to half the time of protology. Finally, in accordance with Rule 109, the meeting shall be concluded within a maximum of 10 hours. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u4	Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u5	We have expressed our opposition to the committee on the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, I know. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Marios Katsis, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law we are debating today concerns the harmonisation of Greek legislation with Directive 2012/34 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 aimed at creating a single European railway area, as well as other provisions relating to the directive. The development of the rail transport sector and the proven failure to compete successfully with other modes of transport are the core of the problems that the directive is actually facing. These problems mainly relate to the insufficient funding for the railway infrastructure, the constant barriers that exist, limiting competition and the lack of appropriate regulatory and regulatory supervision for the operation of railway transport authorities and operators. These are the most important reasons, therefore, that rail transport in the countries of the European Union, as in our country, has not developed adequately and to a desirable extent especially outside the national borders, with what this naturally means also to the adverse impact of the conditions of competitiveness of the railway. So, by recasting the first railway package with our harmonisation in the directive, we are basically aiming at taking those measures that will minimise - if not solve - the problems. Our aim is, on the one hand, to resolve appropriately key issues of the Greek rail market and, on the other, to strengthen competitiveness and upgrade the quality of the services provided by the national railway sector. The adoption of the measures of Directive 2012/34 initially and then the proper implementation of those measures, but based on what has already been achieved, are the prerequisite for an effective and sustainable development of the railway infrastructure. We must, however, incorporate adaptation provisions into national law, which fully respect the specificities of domestic legislation, without, however, being removed from an overall strategy at both national and European level, which will significantly strengthen and create the single European railway area. It is therefore quite clear, firstly, that the railway infrastructure manager, secondly, the railway undertaking and finally, the independent regulators, as well as the rules governing it, with a view to healthy competition, lays down conditions for transparent and non-discriminatory access to structures, the removal of administrative and technical barriers and the provision of equal treatment conditions for competitive modes of transport. In codifying this, therefore, and in terms of legislation, we have firstly modernising by clarifying certain provisions and removing other provisions which are obsolete, secondly, simplifying legislation and thirdly, eliminating existing overlapping. In the second part, with regard to the most specific objectives, we have firstly, to ensure adequate, transparent and sustainable infrastructure funding, secondly, to promote transparency in the railway market, to ensure effective competition and to avoid distortions and thirdly, to strengthen regulatory supervision. The ultimate objective of this directive is to strengthen the share of rail transport in the transport market. Because over the last few days there has been a confusion, I would say, of misinformation from various media, which I am passing away, knows what the last Greek citizen is their role in this country, the content of the directive has been fundamentally distorted, but also the link between this directive and the imminent privatisation of TRAINOSE. We categorically make it clear from this step that the two things are different and not related to each other. The objectives of the directive, as well as the time chosen to integrate it into the urgent procedure, have been analysed in committee - the reasons - I believe that they have been sufficiently convinced, and no one can question and link this draft law to the privatisation process. We are now entering the main amendments which bring about the transposition of this directive. The main thematic sections of this law are: General provisions, the development of the Union's railways, the licensing of railway undertakings, the charging for the use of railway infrastructure and the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and final provisions. I am referring to certain articles, which in essence separate the previous regime, such as Article 6, which makes accounting separation, make it compulsory to observe separate statements of profit and loss of revenue for the activities involving rail transport services. There is also a discrepancy in the accounting of Community funds for compensation, for the provision of a public service and for the prohibition on the transfer of such public funds to activities of other transport services or other activities. Article 7 abolishes the possibility of giving railway undertakings the possibility of collecting charges for the use of railway infrastructure. This measure will strengthen fair competition by preventing certain railway undertakings, establishments, access to commercially sensitive information. Article 8 requires Member States to publish a five-year renewable railway infrastructure development strategy, which will enable the future principles of mobility to be met on the basis of the sound and sustainable funding of the rail system. Long-term life-cycle investments, on which the railway sector is dependent, are expected to be promoted. We all know very well that long-term commitments are needed to attract new operators to the market and to develop new services. With Article 13, two new fundamental concepts are introduced into the new European legislation. First meaning, the installation for the provision of services which permits the provision of one or more services referred to in points 2 and 4 of Annex 2. Secondly, the concept of the operator of the installation for the provision of services, which is defined as any private body responsible for managing one or more facilities for the provision of services, is established. In addition, provisions shall be laid down on requirements of independence between, on the one hand, the maintenance of service facilities and, on the other, the provision of railway transport services, in order to eliminate conflicts of interest. This measure will contribute to ensuring non-discriminatory access to service facilities and to the services provided by them. Finally, in this article, the availability of facilities on the market is increased by avoiding problems of artificial saturation. Article 14 clarifies the general principles applicable to cross-border agreements. With Article 15, which is expected to contribute to identifying bottlenecks in the service market, the scope for monitoring the railway market in the Member States is widened, covering issues such as investment in railway infrastructure, price developments and quality of railway, transport services, etc. Article 27 clarifies the appropriate ways and means of publishing network declarations by infrastructure managers. The network declaration shall be published in two official languages of the European Union on the infrastructure manager’s website. This measure will enhance accessibility to network declarations and will therefore improve transparency. Article 29 gives information on charging schemes, as the obligation to publish the charging frameworks of Member States in network statements strengthens transparency in relation to the charging system. Article 30 makes it compulsory to conclude a contractual agreement between the public and the infrastructure manager, which regulates the rules governing their relationship and the duration of validity, which is identical to the duration of the operational plan. A provision for differentiation of access charges shall be introduced by Article 31 to take account of the noise emission of the train rolling stock. The aim is to provide an incentive to modernise railway vehicles. Furthermore, it is clear that operators of service facilities must submit information on the charges of services provided to railway undertakings, which infrastructure managers must publish in their network statements. Article 32 provides for common criteria for the identification of market segments on which services may pay surcharges. With Article 37, Member States shall ensure that infrastructure managers cooperate in implementing efficient charging systems with a view to coordinating the charging or charging for the execution of rail transport by transit from more than one infrastructure network to the Union rail system. Article 55 strengthens the provisions on independence of regulatory bodies, expressly stating that they must be independent of any other public or private authority. There is no longer any possibility that the relevant powers will fall within the relevant Ministry. It shall be clarified that the regulatory body may organise with the National Security Authority, the National Competition Authority and the licensing body. In addition, arrangements shall be made concerning transparency criteria for the selection of members of the Governing Board of the Regulatory Body. Article 56 extends the powers of regulatory bodies. They expressly fall within the competence of the regulatory body, in relation to decisions relating to access and charge for services facilities of crucial importance, in order to allow entry into the market and to ensure fair competition. Secondly, the right to carry out checks to verify compliance with the accounting separation provisions is granted. Regulators may also request the railway market operators to submit specific economic data for that purpose. In addition, it is noted that the regulatory body is directly defined. He must have authority to enforce his decisions by appropriate penalties, including fines. In Article 61, an amendment is made to the situation of certain provisions. Separate provisions are adapted in relation to the delegation of the powers of the Railway Safety Authority to the RAA, in accordance with the provisions of No 4199/13. In particular, it was stated in those provisions that the PPA acts independently of the Security Authority and that its members are not allowed to hold positions with the Security Authority. The Regulatory Body may organise with the Security Authority. Correct the wording of the above paragraphs by replacing the provisions in order to reflect the inclusion of the responsibilities of the Security Authority in the RAA, both in the provisions on the independence of the RAA and in the incompatibilities of the PSA members. Approved by Law No.3891, provisions amending and supplementing the powers of the Regulatory Authority for Railways. In addition, provisions of Law 3911 are also being replaced, where, in particular, Directive 2007/59 of the European Parliament was incorporated into Greek law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The training of train drivers, supporting documents submitted and curricula are laid down in Article 23, without any authorisation procedure being provided for. The training centre will be trained by the candidate drivers, to whom, after successful examination, the licence will be issued throughout the European Union, so training programmes must be at a high level and must meet the necessary requirements of European legislation. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote in favour of this draft law, in order to harmonise our national law with the European directive, namely, to help all together to create a national strategy that is integrated into the creation of a single European railway area, leaving behind the mistakes and distortions of the past. To develop, then, in a sound, transparent and sustainable way, the strengthening of the share of rail transport in the domestic transport market as the most ecological and safe means, the tool and lever of the model of productive reconstruction that we want to bring to the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, too. They have been appointed by the rapporteurs' parties and special speakers. From New Democracy Mr. Karamanlis Konstantinos of Achilles, from Golden Dawn Mr. Panayotaros Ilias, from the Democratic Compact of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Manatis Ioannis, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Katsotis Christos, from Potamis Marcos, from Mr. As Parliamentary Representatives, SYRIZA, Mr. Karanastassis Apostolos, from New Democracy, Mr. Dendias Nikolaos, from Golden Dawn Mr. Sahinidis Ioannis, from the Democratic Consortium of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theocharopoulos Athanasios, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Pafilis, from Potami, Mr. Danellis Spyridis, from ANEL, Mr. Papachristopoulos Athanasios and from the Union of Kentronous Georgios. Please, Mr Karamanlis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate which, as we all know, is incorporating Directive 2012/34, comes under the urgency procedure. Despite the government's words that this is completely irrelevant to the sale of the 'TRAINOSE', anyone taking a look at Article 9 or Article 55 will understand that this is not the case. Nevertheless, I think that the debate in both the committee and in Parliament here in plenary is of particular interest, especially because it takes place at an extremely critical time for the future of the railway landscape in our country. So here, ladies and gentlemen, we are not just here to approve the harmonisation of our legal order with a directive, but to approach the whole question of rail in a broader way. We are already in her era after the sale of "TRAINOSE" and it is good on the basis of this bill, to see how this investment needs to be exploited for the good of our country. Greece, I think, should gradually become a pan-European transit centre. As long as our country's political world understands this in time and develops a strategic planning in this direction. A central role in this design is played by railroads. It is our rail network, after all, which will bring Piraeus back to what we all want, namely a gateway to Asian products in Europe. It is our rail network that will extend the sea corridor, which will once unite Asian markets with the port of Piraeus. That is why we all understand the importance of modernising our rail network and turning it into a high-speed network as well as upgrading and strengthening Triasios so that imported products reach Europe's markets rapidly. This will act catalytically in improving the turnover of both the logistics logistics industry and the combined transport sector. So we have to understand the enormous potential that arises and when we say it now, we mean it before it is too late. Because if we look at what is happening in our neighbouring countries, we will understand that, for example, Italy is moving at a much faster rate than we are, in building a serious rail network that comes dynamically to threaten not only the port but also, more generally, the freight role of our country in Europe. We will wonder what the government is doing in the face of all this. It leaves the Inomen rail line closed for months, an operation that, according to the company's official figures, has cost TRAINOSE EUR 2.5 million. All the last days of strike mobilization, all the government has done, is to see the immobilized wagons. What, though, was the reaction of enterprises to this unpleasant reality they experienced? They have just sought alternative routes to import their products into Europe. Our Government, therefore, with its practices, has turned the port of Copper into a product entry gate in Europe. Even in their craziest dreams, the Slovenians didn't expect us to give them a chance like this. So let us consider, beyond party ideologies and ideological prejudices, the criticality of the situation. Now you will allow me to come to the substance of the bill. The truth is that yesterday in the Committee on Production and Trade, we had a fruitful and interesting exchange of views, although some questions have still not been answered. The first relates to Article 9 on which the Minister has repeatedly stressed that the debt write-off of TRAINOSE does not relate to the sale process. Minister, we will not now sit down and discuss how and why all these debts were created - that would have wanted another debate - but it is good to know what these debts are, so that it is also known in plenary and in the Greek people, what is what we will ultimately sell to the Italians. I would like to add something else to that. In trying to justify the unjustifiedity, the Minister noted that, for the current situation in the OSCE, it was the previous governments, who did not seek the timely transposition of this directive some years ago. First of all, I think the Minister is confusing two unreasonable periods. The Directive was indeed adopted on 14 December 2012. I would remind you that the principle of partitioning the OSE, Mr Minister, was carried out in 1996 with the creation of ERGOSE and in 2001 with GAOSE. Wherever we see in the European Union, we will see that railways and services have been separated for twenty years. I will also recall that in 2010, the attempt to convert the OSE to a holding company began. It does not matter, but none of this has happened to the governments of the New Democracy and it is good in this Chamber, not to forget politically where each of us belonged at that time. I know you will hurry to tell me about the "TRAINOSE", which, according to the Karamanlis government in 2005, was the first attempts to privatize. But the point is that we are here today and it is good to agree on the basics. Let's go to the second part of the bill, that of Articles 8 and 30, which refer to the state funding of the OSE and to the cover of new investments. According to the report by the General Accounting Office of the State and with the Special Report, this amount is EUR 45 million. I think we should stand up here and make two remarks. The State subsidy is constantly falling from 87 million in 2013 to 53 million in 2014 and is now at 45 million. This gradual reduction in the financing of the OSE comes at a time and at a time when the OSE has lost its main source of revenue. In short, the UCLAF is going through a period of considerable economic closeness, which it inevitably has to resolve. The question posed to the Ministry is whether you will lead to staff reductions and wage reductions. Because even if we lead to the solution of the PPPs, which I see the government invokes for all diseases, it is highly questionable in our view whether this will be able to recover the OSE financially. A third point in the bill in which I think we should stand is Article 55, which concerns the independence of the Regulatory Authority for Railways. During yesterday's debate in the committee, the Minister reiterated his permanent inclination to distinguish independent and regulatory authorities, simply invoking the different way in which they are formed. It is good at some point to stop the repetition of this new argument, for the good of the country not to record these views. A stable principle and the conquest of Western legal culture is the functioning in an independent way of administrative and regulatory authorities, whether their creation is provided for by the Constitution or by the law. I think, therefore, that it is important to ensure that these authorities move independently, away from any kind of government or broader intervention. In conclusion, I would like to say that the New Democracy will vote in favour of this bill. But our logic and practice should not simply be used to harmonise legislation with European directives. Instead, we should use these directives as a forerunner, in order to draw up our own strategy, a strategy that will be the result of a wider political agreement and understanding over the long term. Only then will the vision of a Greece that will be an international transit centre. Now is the moment. When we talked here a few weeks ago about the concession agreement for the PPA, many on the New Democracy side said that the attempt at that time by the Government of Karamanlis was to open Piraeus and make it the first port, which could host all products from Asian markets. But then the opposition together - and PASOK and SYRIZA - had fought this rabies effort. The Prime Minister in his recent television interview to "SKAI", admitted that Karamanlis opened a path to the relationship with China, and now this is a boulevard. We would really like to believe the Prime Minister's words, but what we are seeing is, unfortunately, this opportunity window that had been opened at the time, slowly closed. Let us believe that we will not let that happen. But if we see how the other countries that are competitive with Greece in the field of 'logistics' are moving, we will understand that the opening of the Gofert rail tunnel in Switzerland significantly strengthens the geopolitical role of both Rotterdam and Genoa, two competitive ports of Piraeus. On the other hand, we find the complete indifference with which the government moves, an indifference which in fact closes every window of opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Karamanlis. Mr Panayotarus, the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my reference to this bill - Mr. Dendia, sit down why you want to answer - I would like to reply to what Mr. Dendias said yesterday in plenary, absent from the Golden Dawn, referring to the spectacular trial and to a Golden Dawn category witness, who said: "Mr. Dendias visited me on the day after the tragic incident and asked me about the cameras." Mr Teddy here in Parliament falsely said that the Golden Dawn said that. Golden Dawn said nothing. A charge witness said that. The accused witness said other things, i.e. he was accompanied by the Greek Police spokesman and other details, for which Mr. Dendias has been called to court, so as to show controversy that he is a liar by the Golden Dawn category witness or Mr. Dendias, to know what is going on with the Rochild lawyer in Greece. At the same time we have seen the obvious division between Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis, both of them constantly referred to the Golden Dawn. Your pain for the Golden Dawn from what it looks like is huge and your problem is that you cannot shake our upward course with anything, no matter what you make up your mind, no matter how much you muddy, no matter how much you slander us. This bill comes under the urgency procedure, although it is a directive of 2012 and there was a long time - about four years - to be able to come to Parliament under normal procedures, to introduce and have a more extensive debate to see the very positive aspects of this bill, as the Government and Census say, or the very betrayal elements of this bill, as we say. No surprise arises from the Government's study to bring this bill to a vote by the known procedure, even a few days after the gift of the UAE to the Italians as against EUR 45 million. We can go back to Mr Stathakis's words, which was a short time ago, when there was an offer of EUR 300 million, he said it is a sale for the OSE to sell to someone for EUR 300 million. So you're giving him away. To understand the size of the laundry, the gift, about 45 million is costing a train to the Greek railway network. The depreciation of the OSE and ultimately the sale of the company on the basis of a well-established plan - if one thinks so well - is implemented by the current SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which has much greater ease of doing so and which has just begun after the takeover of power. This deportation and irreparable damage, particularly in freight transport, which has also been done with the ongoing strikes - many of which have not had a good purpose - with the long-term interruption of the rail network in Idoine by the favourite illegal immigrants who have done and do what they want in the territory but also with a number of incredible scandals in the recent and out-of-the-art, have earned the OSE. To remind us a little and to refresh the memory of the Greek citizens, we should start by the fact that a few days ago the well-known tourist "Muzouris" in Magnesia stopped working for some reason. It had preceded the stop of each operation on the Peloponnese network, even though it had just been upgraded and a load of money was wasted in order to upgrade the railway line with what it entails. To remind Greek citizens of a PASOK Minister, Mr.Verellis, where a rail network, cost the Greek citizens millions of euros, was built on his service. They also bought trains costing millions of euros to Greek citizens. But there was a failure. The trains didn't match the tracks, and it wasn't anyone's fault. Years we have been paying to Ieto-Carnania for a rail network which is not working. I'm saying it's for someone to understand how dreadful the functioning of this organization was, of course, with particular people in charge. Here I should like to return to what Mr Karamanlis, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, said: 'Let us not see how these debts were created'. Well, no! Let us see why these debts of hundreds of millions of euros were inclined, swooped, and the Greek people will take them. We will come a little further in this particular debate. Indicative of the whole situation that was created in the OSE, which eventually caused a heavy blow to the Greek company, was also the intention of COSCO - which you gave it to the port of Piraeus, because it thought that rail networks would work properly in our home country and would enable goods coming from the port of Piraeus to go unintentionally throughout Europe - which, looking at all this, put a 'plan B', bypassing 'TRAINOSE', resulting in the loss of an annual turnover of more than EUR 5 million. As mentioned in a letter from the Office of Economic and Commercial Affairs of the Greek Embassy in Skopje to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a direct agreement of the national railway company of Skopje with the Chinese COSCO is on rail freight transport across the country to European destinations. But they will not go by rail to Skopje, for example, by road, bypassing the OSE's rail network. You are obviously aware of the intense deeds that have been made at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks and at TSED by very large multinational companies - which you love very much and you ask them to come here in order to have growth, as you say - that they claim to be destroying cargo traffic on rails in our homeland, as well as all the government plans for further development of the Greek-Chinese agreements, which you and the previous constantly crossing, racing, but with your other actions all this is going to the bronto. Furthermore, the country's confidence in rail freight transport is severely affected, with results being evident in the coming months, and they could, as they also appreciate, seriously harm even this agreement that the Government caused between the GOI and the Italian company, which received a gift from the OSE in order to ensure the smooth continuation of its activities. Because of the strike mobilisations in “TRAINOSE”, a subsidiary of COSCO triggered the project, as we said, bypassing the railway axis of our country. The plan of the subsidiary COSCO business continuity planning is that the goods will go by road to Skopje and from there by rail to the rest of Europe or go to the port of Copper, Slovenia, which suddenly out of nowhere, is turned into an entry gate for Chinese products in Europe and from there all functions will be done as they should. We see that the Italian railways have acquired, against 45 million euros - I repeat, the price is degrading, it is a gift literally, it is as much as the OSE and OSE costs dozens of trains - 100% of the TRAINOSE and a 250 million euro dowry, because by 2020 the ancestral lines will be subsidised by the Greek state, that is, on the substance every year the Italian company will receive a EUR 45 million 'TRAINOSE'. The relevant Ministry, democratically hides the debt of EUR 750 million and how it will be deleted, since in the special report followed by the bill, it is provoked that loss of revenue from the deletion of debts of TRINOSE and OSE pursuant to Article 9, for which data has not been sent from the expedited Ministry. Does the government consider democracy and transparency? In committee yesterday, Mr Spirtzis was justified by saying: 'We, you know, found these agreements and we are obliged to sign them, because otherwise we should pay clauses and penalties of billions of euros'. Since you are so much cut off for the billions and millions of euros of the Greek people, why are you selling off the Greek property against a lentil plate whether it is the Greek or the port of Piraeus, whether it is the airports or the rail network of our country, whether it is the energy or anything else? The OSE to understand, in 2015 had profits of EUR 2.65 million, compared with EUR 1.71 million in 2014, with an increase of 55.71%, while it took just a few months of SYRIZA-ANEL collapsing - with everything that has happened either in Idounius or elsewhere - to eliminate all these profits and have damage and depreciation so that when the time has come for the optimistic buyer to buy the OSE against a lentil, as it was. So the cost of the 'TRAINOSE', which arises from the information provided by the Government itself in the report referred to in Article 75(3), is that, in application of Articles 8 and 30 of the bill, the grant we talked about is the annual amount of EUR 45 million, and at the same time there is another EUR 50 million grant. All this in order to be fair with European directives and the fourth package of measures that come into our own country, where all railway undertakings will be able to provide transport throughout the European Union. For all these things, some moves are taking place, of course at the end at the expense of the Greek people, for the benefit of a few foreign "investors" - always in import - who at all times can leave home, can sell, sell, resale, do anything else. Thus, by bringing this bill, not only does the government accept, without any objection, Greece's participation in the legacy of a collapsed European Union in relation to the creation of the single space, but it goes on a step further, i.e. it also depreciates the assets of the OSE in order to be able to become more easily integrated into these designs. In fact, by proving her complete incapacity, she's not only selling out the company, but stripping her to a state-owned company. Once again, the state property of our country buys it by another state company, as was the case with airports, as was the case with the port of Piraeus, as is now the case with the railways. While it appears that the purpose of the draft law is to harmonise Greek legislation, Article 2 excludes from the scope of the law the private railway infrastructure which exists exclusively for use by the owner of the infrastructure for the same transport of goods, directly referring to the privatisations it has already ensured, so that such transport is exempted from the transit system for the benefit of the only individuals who exploit them and not of course of the public. Article 4 makes it clear that railway undertakings have an independent status. We see later that in Article 7(2) the OSE carries out the tasks of railway infrastructure manager, ensures maintenance and bears responsibility for the management of the investments concerned within the - allegedly - national railway policy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. It is therefore not involved, as has been stated, in any provision of a rail transport service. We see incredible action. To be voted on in Article 9, and as we have said, signs and monsters occur. You are giving a total of 750 million debts to TRAINOSE, but you will find them, because they exist in the state budget from other sources. You're not telling us what these other sources are. Are the famous equivalents, namely a further increase in VAT, reductions in wages, pensions, to what? Since you are so "large" and you are giving the debts of "TRAINOSE", why are you not giving the debts of Greek citizens to the many bankrupt banks, which the Greek people have paid for gold? Not only when it suits you and where it suits you can do these and elsewhere, of course you can never do something like that. In Article 10, you provide the right of access to the national railway infrastructure, including access to infrastructure linking seaports and other facilities. So to tie up COSCO's sweet, where you're crying - it's supposed to be - for the deal that happened. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The other hand, paragraph 6 of Article 13, where you say that a service facility referred to in point 2 of Annex 2 to Article 62 will not be used for at least two consecutive years - is saying this - and that the railway undertakings have expressed interest in the operator of its operation. That is to say that the owner publicly announces that the holding is available for simple rental or lease. All OSE installations, all assets recorded indefinitely but indicatively, i.e. land areas, buildings, bridges, crossings, tunnels, safety facilities, signalling, telecommunications, lighting facilities, power lines and even plants. You give them everything against a lens plate. To conclude, it is clear that both the philosophy and the pursuits of this bill are in complete contrast with the beliefs and ideology of the Golden Dawn, which is struggling for a national rail, sustainable, necessary for the Greek Army - so that we do not forget this very important parameter - so that it works for the benefit of Greek society. The railroad could be a cheap alternative to transport, which was done until now. But in the years of the memorials you forgot all this on the altar of the rug, the profit of some foreigners at the expense of Greek citizens. We are also voting against this bill in principle and on the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Panayotare. Mr Ioannis Maniatis, special speaker of the PASOK-DMAR Democratic Asylum.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday was an interesting day. It was a politically very interesting day. This morning we had the debate in the Committee on Production and Trade in accordance with the urgent procedure for incorporating the directive we are discussing today. Rail us unprecedented a directive, which had been handed over to the Ministry as the first text since March 2015, to now come under the urgency procedure within two days to discuss it. I'll come back to this. The second interest yesterday was the debate in plenary on electoral law. The third was the decision of the European Court of Human Rights on the PSI. And yesterday's fourth interest was the conclusion of the Central Left Reform Committee. So you will allow me, before I enter into the transposition of the directive, to table some thoughts on the broader context. Yesterday's debate on the electoral law was Mr Tsipras' first major defeat. A defeat that has started as a social defeat among the citizens and will continue in the next few years. The armor of the electoral law no longer exists. So the king is naked. At a time when Mr Tsipras was going through the Democratic Alliance yesterday, at the very same time he called for cooperation. How do these two go together now? At the end of his two allies were left: Mr. Kammenos and Mr. Leventis. Let's suffice to these two. What matters, however, is that in yesterday's debate on the electoral law, there has been no talk on the part of the government that, in my view, it is a major issue of giving the right to vote on Greeks who are staying abroad and especially on the Greeks who have moved the years of the crisis. We are talking about over three hundred thousand creative, innovative, productive Greeks who, according to the Bank of Greece's figures, contribute about EUR 50 billion to the GDP of the countries where they have fled and annually contribute EUR 9 billion to the tax revenues that contribute to the state budgets. Obviously, the government is not only interested in giving these Greeks the right to vote in productivity and creativity, extroversion and innovation, but is deeply afraid of the expression of their political opinion. We in the Group of the Democratic Alliance saw in the Group of the European People's Party the representatives not more than Brain Drain, the loss of brains, but the representatives of Brain Gain, how these children, these people, we will bring them back. And it is sad that the government does not have the basic right, even to provide in yesterday's electoral law a provision that by ministerial decision the technical details are resolved so that these more than three hundred thousand Greek creative citizens can contribute to the political process, as another measure, to attract them back to our homeland. The second interesting development yesterday was the triple PSA. The European Court of Human Rights, with a powerful legal documentation by the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL, with precedence in the arguments of the Parliamentary of SYRIZA Mr Chrysanos, stated that the PSA was made for the public benefit. I ask: Does the Maximos Mansion intend to make a non paper and say that the government finally won the Human Rights Court with the PSA, or will it forget that? Because Greek citizens remember very well what SYRIZA said about the PSA. The third interesting development of yesterday's day was the announcement of the conclusion of the Reform Committee on the reconstruction of the Central Left. Because the Central Left and Social Democracy many are paved, firstly with SYRIZA and Mr Tsipras, we are very pleased that yesterday's day was another step towards creating a modern, reformative, progressive, unified body that will give hope and perspective to the Greek citizens, in this direction of more than 25% of Greek citizens who expect hope and perspective in a positive direction. I now come to the bill we are discussing in this regard. I think that once again the government is insulting and degrading Parliament, with clear examples of parliamentary authoritarianism, always operates on the established logic, which governs it in all political functions, and even within a day and a half, without even listening to the representatives of society. Now look at the contradiction. All of us, I suppose, want the rail market to develop. Through the incorporation of the directive, there is obviously a great opportunity for the people of the market, who are interested in supporting the railway, to talk to the political forces of the country. This is absolutely indifferent to the government. He doesn't want to hear. It wants to quickly incorporate a directive which, on its own responsibility, has been delayed, and we are here today on the obvious and self-evident basis to incorporate a directive. To clarify the position of the Democratic Integration, because this directive was completed in December 2012, at political level, at the Council of Ministers level, we managed it, we negotiated it. We are therefore voting in favour of it. I would ask, however, when in 2012 SYRIZA won the political efforts of the government at that time, what does it have to say today, which, without any modification, comes in and integrates the directive? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in yesterday's debate I made specific remarks on the individual articles. I won't repeat it. I look forward to your position, to see how we will be placed in specific interventions, which we have asked to do. I am pleased that Mrs Marcus from Potami has indeed made very positive comments. An interesting point is Article 9, which mentions the clear debt write-off process of the CIU group. This is essentially a repetition of Article 13 of Law 3891/2010. Again, the PASOK in front of them since 2010. SYRIZA had voted against this law. Today he accepts the logic of debt write-offs. Is there a political explanation? ‘TRAINOSE’. We asked the Minister yesterday: does he have anything to do with what we are now discussing in the urgent procedure of the 'TRAINOSE'? The Minister said 'no'. Obviously, only the provision of Article 9 on debt write-off is directly and indirectly related to the ‘TRAINOSE’. Here, however, questions are beginning to come. Mr. Stathakis in statements of 2013 - yesterday was not a decade ago - he said that SYRIZA would not accept, TRAINOSE would be sold for 300m euros, when the SYRIZA government now accepts the Italians' offer of 45m. If the 300 were a sale, the 45 million what is it? A designation is required. We can't do this by pass. If 300 is a sale, 45 million what is it? But, ladies and gentlemen, there is a very recent history on the subject of TRAINOSE. I remember and remember all the tragic moments that the country's export world experienced over the ninety days that the rail line at the borders at Idomeni and TRAINOSE is closed with a cry of agony by everyone 'Do something to open the railway' and the government not to do anything, absolutely nothing. Result? TRAINOSE, a company that succeeded in 2014 and became positive from "red" became a company that made profits, a company that had prospects, which had begun to draw the interest of international investors, to reconvene to international unreliability. One of the results. Piraeus, who needs Idomen open to send rail freight to Central Europe, saw them take heads in Slovenia's container ports. You have worked at the expense of Piraeus, at the expense of TRAINOSE and in favour of the ports of Slovenia and Croatia, and you have undermined, through your policy, a serious attempt to make the country a transit hub of goods. Question two. The Italians' offer is 45 million. I asked it yesterday in committee and I did not get an answer. Is it true that TRAINOSE is currently committed to the Bank of Greece's 40 million? And is it true that TRAINOSE also has in its fund EUR 25 million for the provision of services of general economic interest to finance so-called barren lines? What is the government's behaviour in relation to these three economic figures? What is the answer of a minister who is sure that he was against privatization of TRAINOSE, so he told us that we should follow what evil precedents did? But governments are to correct the mistakes of the previous ones, not to weep them, but simply by slowing down. OSE. The route of the Athens-Thessaloniki route in 2014 was in five hours. Today it is done in seven hours, with unjustified, unacceptable steadfastness. Is the Ministry prepared to support, in order to make the necessary improvements and maintenance of the railway line, using, for example, the EUR 80 million committed money of the OSE to the Bank of Greece? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And it is very interesting - and we are waiting for it - that Mr Spiritzis' proposal to be tabled to the Committee on Production and Trade - should be tabled, Mr President - to discuss the matter of the Independent and Regulatory Authorities. It would be very interesting to see what the government's perception of independent and regulatory authorities is. I would like to make it quite clear to those citizens who are following Parliament's meetings that the independent and regulators are doing just one job all over the Western world, especially in Europe. In order to avoid the wishes of the respective Minister of State, parts of the markets - telecommunications market, the transport market, the energy market, the television market, all the markets above and beyond - there are the independent authorities to regulate competition with transparency and efficiency. So we very much want this debate to be held as soon as possible on the independent authorities. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, because we are discussing a matter directly related to the country's ambition to become a transit hub of trade and at the same time a large energy SGP and all this will help us to upgrade our geopolitical position, what we want to send as a message to the government is: Finally, believe that Greece can. Greece of defeat, misery, fatal and inevitable acceptance must become a past. Greece is entitled to and can smile again, to gain its institutional equilibrium in the European institutions, to give hope and perspective to the Greek citizens, and we will fight this with all our powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Maniotis. Mr Katsotis, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last few decades, throughout the capitalist world, there has been a trend towards the gradual dismantling of State monopolistic enterprises, such as energy, communications, transport and elsewhere with liberation, that is to say by privatising all these businesses that are active in these sectors. This came as a result of the huge overcompensation of capital and the need to find new profitable outlets for capital. The European Union as an organisation of capital, with its policy of forming these new areas of profitability. The main aim of the policy of the European Union and of the railways is that of complete liberalisation, by means of the directives on the creation of a single market for railways, to which the monopolistic groups of the European Union can unnecessarily invest. The draft law incorporates Directive 34, which recasts in 2012, the European Union for the single European railway area, the so-called third package, the third rail package of the European Union. It follows, of course, the fourth package, which has already been agreed. It concerns both technical integration and liberalisation of the market by harmonising the interconnection of railway infrastructures. It also removes the latter obstacles, which so far make it difficult for groups to interconnect the rail transport project in all the Member States of the European Union. The European Union Agency for Railways will harmonise the different Member States' frameworks and issue EU safety certificates. In Greece, harmonisation of national legislation with the Directives of the European Union for the liberalisation of rail transport has been initiated since 1997 by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, the gradual restructuring of the OSE has led to the separation of TRAINOSE, the network operator from the other companies of the OSE. The abolition of a large number of routes, the increase in ticket prices and the reduction of OSE staff was completed. Many well-paid railway infrastructures have become semi-finished, such as the Kiato-Rios-Patras line, but others have not been used at all, such as the Agrinio railway, resulting in a shrinking of the rail network. The development of a modern rail network was not a priority for Greek urban policy. Among other things, the difficulties in interconnecting with the other Member States, the small size of the manufacturing industry, as well as the orientation of the ruling class in road transport projects, have affected this choice. This directive is being incorporated into national legislation in its own right. It completes all the conditions for the liberalisation of the European Union rail market for the privatisation of railways, the concession of state infrastructure to business groups. It appears from the explanatory memorandum to the bill that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government shares and adopts all the contents of the directive and, above all, the aim of liberalising and delivering railways to business groups. Of course, SYRIZA in the European Parliament in 2012 voted against this directive and others said so. In the Minutes of the European Parliament and on 16-11-2011, but also on 3-7-2012, SYRIZA's position is reflected, which said it would have serious consequences for the public interest, transport safety and passengers' rights, that this directive and politics are written with the dominant neoliberal logic, making profit a priority, forgetting that it is the states that have financed all the existing infrastructures. It said that further, almost all the Member States - the liberalisation of the railway sector and the further separation of operating and maintenance services are now being promoted. This fragments the concept of an integrated and secure transport system, strengthens the logic and practice of subcontracting, thereby undermining the rights of workers, passengers and existing European security measures. That's what SYRIZA said then. Recently, however, the SYRIZA Group in two amendments tabled to the European Parliament voted on the one that condemned the privatisation of the railways in general and refused to vote on the other condemned by the Member States, which privatise the railways, on the basis of the directive, and by Greece of course. No-one is surprised that today in the explanatory statement you are saying exactly the opposite. You are expressing the directive and saying that, in order to promote competitiveness, the measures of Directive 34/2012 must be implemented, adapted and integrated into a comprehensive strategy to promote the effective and sustainable development of railway infrastructure and the development of a railway market that consolidates healthy competition. Below, you tell us that the effective adaptation of national legislation to the provisions of the directive, as well as the effective implementation and implementation of the provisions, is expected to have a positive effect, encouraging the introduction of new undertakings mainly to the market in goods transport. Your bill and the directive have a key objective you are serving: the privatisation of public rail transport in Greece, as in the other Member States of the European Union and their delivery to large business groups that are active in the sector, opening them up a golden field of profitability. The heart of the bill is the break-up of the railway transport project by separating the management and infrastructure network from the main transport project, in accordance with Article 4. This makes it easier to privatise, since the profitable part of the transport project is sold, while the network of infrastructures and costs involved - maintenance, expansion, etc. - He stays in public. You're cutting off OSE S.A. from every transport project and you make it an exclusive infrastructure manager. In fact, you also stand out the infrastructure for the provision of a ‘GAIAOSE’ rail transport service. In order to avoid the slightest doubt, Article 5 stipulates that both the infrastructure manager and the operator of the establishments that are public will be obliged to operate under the laws of the capitalist market, regardless of - you say - from the ownership regime, that is to say, whether it belongs to the public or to private individuals. The same article notes that it needs to be adapted to market rules, namely not only on the basis of the service of people's needs, such as the cheap and safe transport of passengers, a work with full rights for workers with satisfactory wages and conditions to ensure the health and safety of workers in the sector, but also on the basis of what profits are earned by the railway undertakings to be developed. It is also confirmed by this article that in the capitalist system and the state sector of the economy operates for the benefit of monopolies rather than the people. Of course, it was state-owned that workers' wages and rights on the railways had been broken. We've had big tickets increases. But the overall operation of rail transport was not aimed at satisfying people's needs. Therefore, the road to delivery is wide open to the groups of the railway project. By Article 10, the infrastructure manager shall be obliged to provide free, unobstructed access to all transport infrastructures and services, to all railway undertakings transporting goods and international passenger transport. Only the transport of passengers exclusively domestically is excluded. In other words, the business groups of the railway project will use all the huge public railway infrastructure built by the taxation of people's households, without spending a single cent. With Article 8, the State is required, for at least five years, to finance the infrastructure manager again, in order to maintain and extend the infrastructure network with new investments, to serve these enterprises, which will be developed for transport. So here is how the State operates in the transnational monopolies union: by slapping the capital free of charge, and of course, by deleting the debts provided for in Article 9. The people will pay back the debts of OSE and TRAINOSE, so that the new owner will get it all clearly ready to win from the first minute of its operation. A challenge is also the provisions on charges for the use of infrastructure in Articles 29-37 for infrastructure managers to receive from railway undertakings. All their philosophy is that the fees must correspond to costs and in some cases to a reasonable profit. There are, of course, provisions for exemptions, discounts and incentives. In fact, even for the use of infrastructure, companies will pay the cost. All the provisions of the bill, the directive, are cut and stitched to the interests of monopolistic groups in the sector. The authorisations given by the regulatory authority, which they say, will apply to all the Member States of the European Union, in whatever state they have been issued and under conditions and conditions which are voluntarily unacceptable, since there is no guarantee of the safety of transport, life, health of passengers and workers. [[At this point, the closing bell of the honourable Member's speech hits a warning bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Regardless of the state, the regulatory authority will be responsible for authorisations for business actions, for charging charges. It will check that no State aid is granted to public bodies. Basically, it will be independent of any control. Of course, there is no independent authority, Mr. Maniotis. All authorities are dependent on how to produce and all regulate the needs of big capital. The five-year public business plans, infrastructure managers, will set the whole framework and ensure the operation of railway undertakings and their profitability. The bill you have brought in with which you fully adopt the directive is a typical example of the capitalist development you are seeking. Delivery of infrastructure, of popular property, paid by the working people and will continue to pay it dearly, to maintain it, to extend it for free use in the industry. Its use in cost. Create all the conditions for guaranteed profitability of enterprises. The people, through their hard exploitation and the pillaging of their income, are incapable of financing capital profits. It pays double and triple, by launching the price of tickets to the heights, by increasing the quality and safety of transport with workers in the industry to be faced with redundancies, wage cuts, intensifications, deterioration of working, hygiene and safety conditions, flexible labour relations and the intensity of their exploitation. The movement of railway workers in France, Germany, Belgium and Sweden respond to this capitalist barbarism. This policy has already been implemented by the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, with even greater consistency, faith and commitment to capitalist development and is now being implemented by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Our workers need modern, quality, cheap and safe rail transport. But the policy of the government today sacrifices them to the altar of the monopolies vote. We are voting against the draft law. We call on the workers and the people to draw their conclusions from this draft law and to contribute to the creation of a strong working people's movement, which will organise the struggle of the people on a ruptured and overthrown line with this policy, in association with the JRC, in the struggle for their own power, which will also plan transport, so that the context of the people's economy meets the needs of the people. The coverage of these people's needs for universal, cheap, quality, safe transport and transport means that infrastructure, means and transport must operate with social property, centralised design and labour control in the context of the people's economy. That is why the fight for a philosophical development with the people in power must be strengthened, where the Greek railway will be a popular property, joining a central state transport agency, which will act as a catalyst for popular needs. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, too. The reason for this is the special speaker of the river, Mrs Marcus.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an urgent bill from the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks. It was only a matter of urgency that the transposition of the directive has been pending for over a year, while the bill has been consulted at the end of April. This week alone, we are discussing either in plenary or in committee seven draft legislations. Last night you tabled a bill of three thousand pages. From what I hear, over the next two weeks, there will be another five bills to be voted on. Last week, however, the plenary sitting only on Thursday on the JRC's proposal for a law, the very day before, the week after the Holy Spirit, again one day. So I don't want to remind you of the weeks that have passed without even discussing a bill. I have also been informed that no new topical questions will be put to the vote until the end of the House, because all that has been postponed will be discussed because of your own planning. And don't hear that we're all complaining because the House is working. Two laws have been passed since the beginning of the month. So there is plenty of time for normal procedures. Of course, we know who rejoices in the abundance, because, within the loss of the bills and amendments, the suffocating deadlines for discussion and bad programming are not difficult to go through, and it is not difficult for us to go through any strange arrangements, such as yesterday's last minute's amendment, for the assistant doctors in the military hospitals. Your attitude undermines the work of the National Representation, excludes the possibility of direct parliamentary scrutiny and does not allow Members to be consistent with their obligations, both within Parliament and in their regions. I would also ask the Bureau to ensure in some way that Parliament is in operation. I'm continuing on the bill. As I said yesterday, indeed, the bill does not directly address the issue of the privatisation of the 'TRAINOSE', it deals with the incorporation of Directive 2012/34/EU, which essentially codifies and clarifies the directives that belong to the first package of measures for the single European railway area. The Directive promotes the integration of the European rail network's management and operation system and the opening up of the relevant market, by harmonising the rules of the Member States, includes basic principles for railway transport management and the criteria for the licensing of railway undertakings. It also refers to the principles and procedures for the determination and collection of infrastructure charges and for the allocation of infrastructure capacity. Particularly important are the provisions on regulatory oversight that ensure the independence of the regulatory authority by political intervention. At the same time, the obligations of the network operator are systemed and the ground is being prepared for the fourth package, which is expected by the end of the year. The implementation of the directive and the deepening and development of the single European railway area can bring significant benefits to rail transport, in particular goods transport, thereby facilitating the entire productive economy. Incorporation is mainly faithful, although in some articles you have derogated the text. For example, in Article 7, where it will be delegated, you say to railway undertakings the responsibility to participate in the development of railway infrastructure by a ministerial decision. Are you saying that, in addition to fees and financing, companies will also be involved in other ways? Does the directive say that? And how is this participation going to be? We discussed this yesterday and we are waiting for some sort of legislative improvement. Also, Article 9 concerning the deletion of OSE debts and TRAINOSE, some explanations were given yesterday, but the draft law itself and the General Accounting Report remain incomplete. This is not a transparent deletion of debts, as is the title of the article. With regard to Article 22, which we did not have the opportunity to discuss and which concerns the civil liability system. It is good that you are trying to introduce a framework, but we would like you to tell us which elements you have chosen as minimum insurance. For example, one million euros per incident for group accidents. Incorporation of the directive may be positive, but it is not enough. There must be a will and a check that the competent administrator, in this case the OSE, will fulfil its obligations. There must be certainty that the State will take care of the safe and smooth operation and modernisation of the rail network. The OSE sinks under the burden of debts and loans, with scandals that have been made publicly known, the "black" wagons, without paperwork, plastic overtime, direct assignments, unbroken rents. Can he respond to his role and how will the state support him? Where's the five-year strategy for developing your ministry's railway infrastructure? Where's the OSE's operational plan? They should have submitted since December 2014 and we are still waiting. As for the network itself - and I said yesterday - 2,2 million euros was the damage to TRAINOSE by the occupation of the railway line in Idomeni, which the government had been monitoring and another and a half million euros since precipitation. All this is for TRAINOSE only. I am not counting the damage to companies that were forced to find alternative routes or lose contracts. So, what management and maintenance of the network are we talking about? Can we really join a pan-European rail network? You realise that all these factors have certainly affected the 'TRAINOSE' tender procedure, but also the final offer, which of course takes all these risks into account. The low price of privatisation is less than EUR 5 million from the EUR 50 million annual regular grant received by TRAINOSE until 2020 for the provision of a public service. It is much less than the EUR 300 million, which, of course, was only a year and a half ago, but they were characterised by Mr Stathakis as a provocatively low price. In any case, now, the market is starting to open and that is the positive one. There are already two private individuals, who have been licensed, and the "TRAINOSE" is now in private hands, although Italian. You know, this is not a nationalist issue, it simply demonstrates the fact that, under the responsibility of the political system as a whole, there are currently no domestic entrepreneurs who could undertake the modernisation of semi-public goods and infrastructures, such as ports, airports and rail transport. Unfortunately, no one indicated from the outset that public investment had to integrate the OSE, and now the TRAINOSE, into combined transport. Badly lies, the railroad, normally, should carry goods and serve exports, serving the country's productive potential. These problems still exist today. Inevitably, therefore, and because of the situation, it is linked to the privatization of the 'TRAINOSE', unfortunately. I said it yesterday, the story with TRAINOSE is the flagship of failure and of the country's pathogens. Delays, regressions, such as the issue of 'COSCO', reluctance to promote demilitarisation, as well as the overall climate of insecurity and a lack of political stability, are factors which daily affect the value of public property. Any privatization takes place now, in time and under conditions where neither the objectives are achieved nor the debt gap closes. And you must finally take your responsibilities, take the property of your own memorandum and proceed with the actions you have agreed. There are no more scapegoats or innocent pigeons. As I said in committee, we accept the usefulness and substance of the European directive, and that is why we are voting in principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Marcus. Mr Lazarides, special speaker of the ANELs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hoped that the bill we were going to discuss today would mean that I really came up here in the mood to confine myself to the debate on the railway bill, but, unfortunately, some colleagues want to raise issues that have nothing to do with the bill we are discussing. Like, for example, my colleague from PASOK - I will not say from the Democratic Integration - who spoke about everything and spoke a little about the railroad. You have shared, Mr President, in every direction, responsibility, but no responsibility has been attached to PASOK for all the things that are happening in the country. You spoke about how some parties have beenhaved before about privatisations and so on. To remember, when Costas Karamanlis, New Democracy, had brought growth in this country, the highest in Europe, when PASOK was tied to the bars, to the port, when you closed the streets. What was that? Wasn't that PASOK? Was there someone else? In any case, you said earlier that young people should return to politics. The young people from politics who kicked them out? They were kicked out of these behaviors. You never took responsibility for it. When New Democracy ruled - because we're talking about bipartisanism at the time - and you were opposition, it was New Democracy's fault. When you ruled and opposed New Democracy, it was the New Democracy's fault. I mean, it's never your fault. PASOK was never to blame. You also said about the electoral law, and what the three parties were, who supported its vote yesterday. Why didn't you say who the parties were against the electoral law? Why didn't you name them? Why were you afraid that within this group there was a party that you couldn't and you didn't want to mention his name? Is that why? As you mentioned the three parties that supported the electoral law, you should also mention them. Anyway, don't go on. To come to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of harmonising the European Union directive with our national law is to improve the quality, safety and efficiency of railway services, by removing any legal, institutional and technical obstacles and strengthening the efficiency and competitiveness of the railway sector, so as to develop and modernise the single European railway area. In any case, it is the European Union's firm belief that transport plays a major role in encouraging and developing trade between Member States and in strengthening them for development is one of its most important objectives. This is why the European Union, at the same time as total liberalisation of trade, also adopted a common transport policy and intended to harmonise national policies, with the aim of developing a European transport system which would strengthen competition, reducing costs and contributing to the development of intra-Community trade, based on the principle of comparative advantage. Although, in the early 1990s, there was pessimism, in relation to the possibility of adopting a single transport policy in the European Union, and failed efforts to coordinate national transport policies have left no room for optimism, the situation is very different today. There is now an enlarged agreement that a system based on transparency and market can respond to Europe's needs and even though considerable time has been lost at considerable economic, social and political costs, the current phase of the formulation of a common transport policy is considered to be quite important. Ladies and gentlemen, Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Union on the establishment of a single European railway area, which we are discussing today for transposition into our national law, brings the principles for railway development, railway undertakings' authorisations and infrastructure charging systems into a single text and leads to a series of changes. This Directive reinforces competition by providing for greater transparency of market access conditions, clear accounting separation, as well as the independence and strengthening of national control bodies and lays down detailed conditions for access to the network, services and the rules for the collection of fees. The liberalisation of the domestic rail market, the development of the rail transport sector and its ability to compete successfully with other modes of transport, were hampered by serious problems relating to an inadequate framework of financing and charging for infrastructure, lasting barriers to competition and the lack of appropriate regulatory supervision. We hope, of course, that freedom of accessibility for the rail network will create new trade and economic synergies, with positive consequences for the country and not just for the use of the network. This is supported by the provisions of Article 10, which states precisely 'the railway undertakings are granted a right of access to the national railway infrastructure of a fair, transparent and non-discriminatory nature, with a view to the performance of all types of railway goods. This includes access to the infrastructure, linking seaports and other facilities for the provision of services, and also ‘will have access to the national railway infrastructure for the purpose of providing international passenger services’. So, at this stage and in our country, freight reports and cross-border passenger transport are opening, which is expected to make the cross-border freight sector more effective. In addition, and for information to everyone, as referred to in Article 2, the scope shall be excluded from the scope of railway undertakings engaged in urban, suburban or regional transport on local and regional individual networks for transport services to railway infrastructures or networks intended solely for urban, suburban or regional transport purposes. Of course, we have to say that railway undertakings have the right to board international passenger services on the international route and to board passengers at various stations on international destinations whether they are within Greek territory or outside. The regulatory body of this development plan will be the Regulatory Authority for Railways (RAC). The establishment of the RAS in Greece meets the requirements of the European Directives for an independent authority in the field of the railway market, with full administrative and operational independence and autonomy, which will grant railway undertaking licences, as well as the procedures for granting licences, while the railway infrastructure manager becomes the OSE, which should ensure that it is maintained, improved and expanded and bears responsibility for the management of the relevant investments in the context of the overall national railway policy. The OIE's obligation to draw up an operational plan, including investment and financial programmes, is defined and on which applicants will be able to express an opinion on the use, provision and development of infrastructure is defined. The State is obliged to ensure that, for a reasonable period of up to five years, the revenues of the infrastructure manager, including state funding, will balance infrastructure costs. It is noted that the infrastructure manager’s revenues may include not only direct state funding, but also private financing, for example through the public-private partnership. Also, as far as OSE is concerned, we must stress that it will no longer be able to carry on passenger and cargo transport activities, while it also excludes companies from exercising it, by definitively closing this chapter in the history of the organisation. In addition, and by summarising some of the main additions to Directive 2012/34/EU, it is mandatory to conclude a contractual agreement between the public and the infrastructure manager, which regulates the rules governing their relationship and the term of validity, which corresponds to the duration of an operational plan, Article 30, while as regards the granting of incentives to the infrastructure manager, the additional possibility is provided for the possibility of granting incentives by means of a combination of the provisions of the contractual agreement and the regulatory measures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude in a few seconds, Mr President. Please, your tolerance. In addition, it becomes clear that operators of service facilities must submit information on the charges of services provided to railway undertakings, which infrastructure managers must publish in their network declarations, with a view to improving transparency, Article 31, as otherwise and in accordance with Article 56, it is directly laid down that the regulatory body has power to impose its decisions with appropriate penalties, including fines. In closing my speech, I cannot help talking about a similarly important pillar of support for the sustainability of the rail system, which is no more than the education, certification of workers, such as drivers, etc. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm accelerating my position. We hope that by harmonising the directive we will be able to achieve the strengthening of the efficiency and competitiveness of our railway sector, and that we too will contribute to the development of the single European railway area for man, the economy and the environment. We support the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. Mr Georgiadis, special speaker of the Centron Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, good morning. It was a long day last night and a long night - three days. We are now continuing with another urgent matter in the usual legislative work that we have been used lately. In the current draft law, we first see the attempt to create rules for the development of a single European railway area. We understand that this is a harmonisation of our country with European law, and that is what we are all in agreement with. We are also observing provisions which help to facilitate the privatization of the 'TRAINOSE'. The European Union started trying to open up the railways to competition in 2011. In February 2014, the European Parliament finalised the final liberalisation of rail transport, followed recently by the second reading in April this year. Since January 2007, competition has been opened for national and international goods transport. In order to achieve this, the European Union has drawn up nine European competitive transport corridors under Regulation 913/210 of 22 September 2010 on goods crossing Member States. This work requires pan-European coordination. We must participate with all our good will and know-how in order to complete this European achievement. The establishment of a single operating framework, however, is not a simple matter. For example, the representatives of the railway industry and the committee signed in 2005, 2008 and 2012 agreement protocols on the establishment and development of the European rail funding system, the so-called European Rail Traffic Management System. These agreement protocols aim to unify about twenty different European signalling systems that coexist in Europe. At the same time, they seek to create a uniform automatic speed control based on the latest technological developments in the telecommunications sector. The final objective of this legislation is to interoperability of individual technical railway systems. I am tabling a report on this in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The aim of Community efforts is to complete a European high-speed rail network in the coming years. It is estimated that about 2030 will be completed. The length of high-speed network lines must also be tripled and a dense rail network maintained in all Member States. The ultimate purpose is by 2050 most of the transport of passengers over medium distances to take place through these rail lines. Rails are a quite convenient and reliable means of transport, since they certainly meet the necessary technical requirements. In the second chapter of the current bill, the management independence of railway undertakings and similar infrastructure, as well as their accounting separation, is promoted. I refer to Article 6. This means that even any State financing from now on will be determined autonomously to the separate entity concerned. These are positive steps of development, with regard to administrative structures alone, always in relation to public money and those responsible for managing it. We also see in the report by the General Accounting Office of the State that the OSE will be subsidized annually with EUR 50 million, less than that sold. He'll be responsible for his...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u22	‘TRAINOSE’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u23	OSE, ‘TRAINOSE’. It has become a partnership, as you know. So it's the same thing. He will be responsible for his own management for his administration and internal control, while at the same time we see no provision for the Ministry to calculate the public finance hole from deletion of his debts. The process of privatization of TRAINOSE means, at the same time, deleting debts, by agreement, of course, with the relevant institutions of the European Union. Deletion of debts is also provided for by the OSE in accordance with Article 9. This agreement with the European Competition Committee concerns the settlement of the issue of State aid of EUR 750 million, and the European Union considered that the Greek railways had been granted irregularly. I am tabling a relevant article in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This irregularity concerns the State directly. This is a fact which was also denounced by the former Governor of the Agricultural Bank, Mr Pantalakis, at the relevant Committee of Inquiry into the Sea Treasury. His statement refers to the damage from the bond haircut. Specifically, he said that the PSI's damage to the Agricultural Bank was EUR 4.5 billion, because the government then turned the funds from agencies, such as the OSE, into bonds and then cut them. As we have said, organisations such as the OSE have a large share of responsibility for our current economy, but also for the current image of our public debt. OSE debts are famous all over the world. Their amount from the report of sworn accountants in 2011 amounted to the tragic amount of EUR 10,3 billion. Only in 2009, the OSE presented debts of EUR 282 million. For the world to understand it schematically, if we used the OSE's debt in other directions concerning transport, we could buy ten spaceplanes of eighty-two-five meters of latest technology. Their speed is thirty thousand miles an hour, they make lightning trips and they can come out of the atmosphere. I am putting an article on this issue. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Alternatively, we could send Mars a two-time mission and get rid of us and EUR 2 billion, since the total cost of a mission to Mars does not exceed EUR 4.5 billion. I am also presenting a relevant article from what I mentioned. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Or at tax level we could reduce corporate tax by 50% for seven to eight years or give them a total tax for three to four years. Do you understand the size of the debt alone of the OSE? Do you realize that the customer logic of deficits and ruffles has destroyed our country? The governments of the last decades have been thrown into the basket of unusable tens of billions of euros and today, we are trying to save money from the ENPI to people with disabilities or by cutting the ESA by the pensioners of 600 euros. How oximo does that sound true? And we are discussing this in this Chamber, as if nothing had happened, and the world that sees us is about to break its screens from rage and indignation. Graduation, while we consider it necessary, especially in injurious state mechanisms, could clearly be done on more favourable terms. If the Greek railways did not serve as the asylum of any government, they would certainly not reach this point of frustration. For example, in 2009 the balance sheet of the OSE fully captures the picture of the depreciation it had obtained since then. More specifically, in 2009 the total revenue was EUR 197,429,000, while wage costs reached EUR 268,124,000, with total costs reaching the unpredictable amount of EUR 479,636,000. I have been tabling data from the relevant report by the European Commission, which show the sad situation since 2012. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Our care in the Central Association of Centres for the Occupation and Depreciation of both the railways and urban transport is reflected in a recent question to the Transport and Network Ministers, as well as to the finances. The question was tabled on 27 June and we have still not received any reply. To facilitate, too, the question in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The fact is, therefore, that over time governments have led with mathematical accuracy to depreciation of the OSE and ‘TRAINOSE’. This deception was conscious, because, as I said before, the UCLAF was used by governments over the last decades as a core of rheumatism, inexperience and opacity. This is why the image of the Greek railways, in relation to the other railway companies in the countries of Europe, is desperately negative, both at economic level and at infrastructure level. The liberalisation of the railway market means, of course, that various undertakings can obtain a licence. In Article 20, the financial requirements of railway companies are set out in order to obtain permission from a company and to prove that it is capable of maintaining a net capital of 100 thousand euros and, indeed, when it has annual revenues of up to EUR 5 million. We believe that this capital requirement is low compared to the revenue required and needs to be re-examined. The opening up of the railway market to private undertakings is already provided for by Directive 95/18/19-9-1995. There it is stated that a railway undertaking must obtain a licence from the national body concerned. The railway licence shall be granted by the Member State of registered office of the undertaking and must comply with certain common conditions such as reliability, financial capacity and professional fitness. This Directive was amended by Directive 2001/13/EC, which lays down the conditions for the exercise, security, technical and financial aspects of the profession of rail transport operator applicable throughout the Union. These conditions regulate the procedure for the authorisation of the operation of rail freight services in the European and cross-border networks. However, as we have said, while our harmonisation with Community law is positive, and we want our Greece to be actively involved in the free market of railways, we strongly condemn dismantling in general, transport and more specifically railways. For example, during the last management year, the financial data of the OSE continue to be desperate. As the agency himself says, the significant withdrawal of EUR 44.3 million or 36.9% of revenue is due: firstly, the loss of the income of rented rolling stock, which has been transferred to the public. Secondly, the reduction of the state grant by eight million euros. And thirdly, by EUR 2,2 million a reduction in infrastructure charges, due to the implementation of fewer routes due to the scarcity of resources in staff and rolling stock of the largest customer, i.e. TRAINOSE. In particular, the OSE’s turnover, the parent company, amounted to EUR 76,7 million, compared with EUR 120 million in 2014, resulting in operational losses expanding by EUR 66 million from EUR 13,5 million in 2014. Even after the OSE and TRAINOSE competition, there is still the tragic image of the organization, both in economic and management terms. And within this climate investors are called upon to come and throw their money and invest. You all understand, the climate is not just negative, but it is disappointing. Last article I make in the Minutes and thank you very much. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. To conclude, we note: we want freedom on the railway market, we want investment and private businesses to enter this sector. We are, however, abstracting the current anti-Greek railways. The Greek state, unfortunately, turned the railroads into an irreparable debt wound and wiped out all hope of profitability. We hope in the future that the new owners will follow European checks and change this sad landscape. We are positive about this bill and will be placed on the articles in the relevant vote. Thank you very much for your tolerance and your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. Mr. Theocharopoulos has the floor. Parliamentary representatives have ten minutes. Here, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I could only begin, as the rapporteur for the Democratic Independent Greeks started, saying - and this has to do with what has previously been said by the representative of the Independent Greeks - that yesterday the committee appointed by the Democratic Independents with other forces, such as the Potami, took the conclusion on the progressive reforms. Why am I saying that? We heard an attack a moment ago by the representative of the Independent Greeks, who was presented as a supporter, essentially, of the 2004-2009 period, of the Karamanlis government. For example, he said "whoever protested at the period 2004-2009", in short he fought against those who had a different view at the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u26	So you will defend the work of the Samara government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u27	We know very well that, at that time of the country's governance, we have tried to resolve the situation created by Karamanlis governance in the period 2004-2009. And having come to the brink of the disaster in 2012, there was a double electoral race aimed at becoming a government of national responsibility. You denounced responsibility at that time, because you did not want - as you were saying - to collide with the first party designated by the Greek people. And you finally confronted the Independent Greeks, with the nationalist right-wing party at the moment, while you didn't actually have that need, as you were the first party. So that was your choice. We did the national duty for the country at that time. And, of course, 2004-2009 was a period during which the country's deficits arrived where they arrived and the country came to this situation. That is why the rapporteur for the Independent Greeks was presented today, in order to confirm what we say in the Democratic Compact, that there is an association between the Government and the New Democracy component, which also exists in many Ministries, but it is also evident from the position of your partner today. These are the real facts, and that's what happens. So we in the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR and Civil Movements made progress in September in a cooperation that the Greek people have not learned to see. He hasn't learned why the political forces haven't learned to cooperate. We proceeded and made the Democratic Participation and now we move on to the next step: along with the Potami and the Central Left forces, we move forward with the aim of a single progressive body in the wider area, which will give the alternative progressive solution to your deadlocks. This is the reality, and that is what bothers you, that there will be an alternative progressive solution, whatever the elections may take. The progressive citizens will not be caught in these deadlocked policies, which are currently being pursued. Of course, I do not need to say anything about who is responsible for all these years, at least when we hear from Mr Kammenos's representative, who was a high-ranking member of those governments. So let us be more careful when we talk about such matters. With regard to today's bill, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are today called upon to vote on a bill and, in particular, on the urgency procedure, particularly important and serious bills, which may relate to the incorporation into national law of a European directive, but that does not mean that there was no need to consult institutions and certainly more time for a thorough debate. Let us not mention the fact that it should have been incorporated since June 2015 and the fact that other provisions usually require more time for discussion. But again in the sense of urgency? Instead of a logic of discussing the committees and, in any case, calling on the bodies involved in the directive to present their views. Let us have two to three days to have a debate on a directive. Members have not been given time, and I do not think the majority Members agree with this procedure, at least that is what we have heard many times. I therefore think that we should see that. There is no sense of urgency unless it is something that needs to be ready for the weekend in relation to the European Union's commitments. We haven't heard of that. Therefore, there could be a debate which should go even next week and close. The Directive, which is a recast of previous Directives and a merger of them in a single act, aims to adapt national legislation to align national law with Union legislation in the railway sector. Of course, no one could disagree with the objectives of the directive. For the results now, there is a reservation, which is also confirmed by the latest report by the European Court of Auditors on earlier directives, according to which the single European railway area is still a distant objective and fails to meet effectively the competition of road transport, at least as far as rail freight is concerned. Independently, however, of any reservations about the final result, that directive contains some positive provisions, such as that of Article 16, concerning the Regulatory Authority for Railways. That provision re-establishes the provision of the earlier Article 28 in the 2010 Act on the Regulator's competence to grant railway undertaking licences, while clearly complementing the restrictions and incompatibilities already existing in the last subparagraph of paragraph 2 of the earlier law. Our position is the independence of the body, like any similar body that upgrades the functioning of the authority, ensures the reliability of all the relevant procedures and increases the degree of attraction of new businesses that wish to be active in the industry. Equally important is the strengthening of cross-border cooperation between regulators for decision-making on access or charging issues relating to international transport. And let us tell you once again: we need reinforcement and shielding of the independent authorities in all fields and not a deterioration of their role. We've told you all about all the bills. In many cases this cannot be done. We have asked for an assent. Remember that we asked for the National Broadcasting Council to be consulted. I am not talking about other problems that exist in that sector too. But I say that we are asking for the aid so that there is no arbitrary nature of the Minister in question. This is a view which we should finally agree on, because if the Minister concerned has the logic of degrading the independent authorities, we cannot get out of this crisis, many times too, on the issues of these decisions. We are therefore positive in the independence of railway undertakings and infrastructure managers, but also in the management of railway undertakings on the basis of the rules of sound competition, as described in Article 5. But there are parts of the bill that create ambiguity and therefore concern. For example, I refer to Article 3, which has been added as one case the definition of a national railway infrastructure, but which is not included in the definitions of the 2012 directive. Article 7, which refers to the independence of the infrastructure manager, states that the OIE is managing the national railway infrastructure. In order to exclude the possibility of controlling the infrastructure manager by one or more railway undertakings, provisions protecting its independence shall be adopted, in accordance with the law on public limited companies. We agree. However, paragraph 2 of that Article provides for the creation and establishment of a debit and distribution body where the infrastructure manager loses its independence in terms of its legal entity and organisational structure. This combination of Articles 3, 3b and 7.2 and we want you to see it - creates confusion and concern. The independence of the infrastructure manager shall not be consistent with the possibility of losing independence from any railway undertaking. It is difficult to avoid, ladies and gentlemen, the sale of TRAINOSE, a sale that does not exist in this bill, but of course it concerns the railway sector. Three years ago, the price was EUR 300 million and was judged to be humiliating by the current government and Members who are now Ministers. So how do you judge the 45 million now? Let me remind you of Mr Stathakis' statements: 'The planned privatisation is being promoted at a provocatively low price of EUR 300 million, so that it has a negligible advantage in serving the declared goal of the government, in paying off part of the public debt through privatisation'. On another point it states: ‘It is revealed in the case of TRAINOSE, as in most of the promoted privatisations, that the invoicing of public debt is only a pretext for providing private interests under privileged conditions’. Mr Stathakis said that three years ago for the 300 million, and now we have the 45 million euros. The words here are not enough, ladies and gentlemen, because the credibility of the political system will be lost as a whole. And we will all be responsible if we continue not to say what we have said and now say other things, but in fact also to keep our positions in line with that logic and to try to move forward with ministerial decisions, which we not only believe, but we believe exactly the opposite. And, of course, this is an overall issue for privatization and privatization. The supreme disqualifications, which, for ninety-nine years, has essentially been allocated since no use can be made only on the Greek side - that is the reality - is a very negative result of a negotiation. And that has a daily impact. We see this on many points. So here we have to say this: it seems that you do not believe the privatizations, which must be done in the country. That's the problem. You don't believe them. You are negotiating for something, which we do not know is what it is and at the end of this negotiation you accept everything, so that we are leading to this situation of transferring assets. Of course EUR 700 to EUR 800 million should be reimbursed for illegal state aid, which is now not returned, through the award procedure. But here, a question arises which I would like to put into the debate: in the event of a non-sale, state aid was illegal, but is it lawful in the event of sale? This is a broader issue which I think is worthy of comment. So this directive harmonises legislation with the European Union directive. The lithium, of course, is the application of legislation rather than its adoption. Our country has no legislative framework. It goes without saying that it is lacking in determination so that we can move on in a clear direction. In this context, the current government is ineffective. This really needs radical changes in a progressive direction and, of course, not in a direction that ultimately leads nowhere, rather than in a deepening of the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u28	The State Secretary for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Chrysovelonis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u30	I have given the floor to the State Secretary. After the State Secretary, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, there is no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u32	Since the State Secretary has no problem, here you are, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u33	Some things have been said by my colleague completely uninvited. I didn't cause anyone. I put some political arguments in my speech. I have put myself politically against Mr Manatis's views in the PASOK views. I didn't blame anyone. My position was purely democratic, contrary to the position of Mr Theocharopoulos, who responded with insults, labels and a state-of-the-art slandering behaviour, which can only be described as democratic. A colleague cannot go out here and name another national socialist colleague. I would tell him to read better about the difference between socialism and national socialism if he swims in waters of national socialism without knowing. In any case, both our people judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Theocharopoulos, there's no point in the conversation. He said his opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, just a minute. I won't hurt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u37	You have the floor, but to note that there is no personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u38	I will not trouble you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u39	Yes, but Mr. Lazarides will ask for the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u40	If he doesn't, I won't ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, we have just heard about a situation in which there is a lack of democratic sensitivity and instability. We didn't hear who the hybrid is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u42	You called me a national Socialist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u43	I didn't tell you a national socialist. You have nothing to do with socialism first. I told you nationalist. The policy of the Independent Greeks is nationalist. That's what I said, and I'll stress it now. And, of course, as Mrs Ghost pointed out yesterday - and I did not tell you this very seriously today, but I will tell you right now - this is a very far-reaching part of the government at the moment. That's the reality. This is the policy of the Independent Greeks, and that is the policy that, unfortunately, SYRIZA has accepted within his Government. That's the reality. Nothing else I told you. I described your policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u44	We are all judged by the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u45	You're welcome. The State Secretary for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Chrysovelonis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. I do not want to make any reference to Mr Theocharopoulos's words, because I am on the move to speak as a State Secretary. I just want to tell you that I consider your designation to be unacceptable. I think they are absolutely hybrid characterisations. In any case, I will not go any further. This draft law fully serves the purpose of harmonising national law with Union legislation on rail transport and in particular the recasting of the first railway package. Directive 2012/34 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of a single railway area effectively repeals the earlier Directives which were the first railway package, as they were, by recasting their provisions on railway development issues, on railway licences and on the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and the charging for railway infrastructure use. The central objective of the merger project of the texts of the directives in a single directive was to simplify, clarify and modernise the institutional framework for rail transport in the European Union. In line with the experience and development of the rail system in the European Union, there is a structural fragmentation that has a significant impact on rail competitiveness over other modes of transport, but also on achieving its sustainability. The incorporation of the provisions of the Directive into national law, as well as the correct implementation thereof, is expected to have an entirely positive impact on the functioning and structure of the national railway sector, fulfilling objectives which can be summarised as follows: Firstly, we have the general objectives. I am therefore referring first of all to simplifying legislation, secondly, to eliminating existing overlapping, thirdly, to clarifying certain provisions and, finally, to modernising legislation by abolishing obsolete provisions. The specific objectives are: firstly, to ensure adequate, transparent and sustainable infrastructure funding, secondly, to promote transparency on the railway market so that effective competition can be ensured and distortions can be avoided, and thirdly, to strengthen regulatory supervision. I would say, in fact, that alignment of national legislation with Directive 2012/34 is expected to create a single access guide for railway and service operators, adequately identifying the procedures required, the means of implementation, thereby playing a very decisive role in achieving key strategic objectives. The ultimate objective is to strengthen the share of rail transport in the transport market. This draft law also incorporates assessed - despite what has been done to the contrary - positions of the administrations of the railway sector, following an extensive consultation on this subject, and further note that an open consultation was held in the same context, 'opengov.gr', which lasted from 27-4-2016 to 9-5-2016. With regard to the financial impact, I stress that the provisions of the draft law have a neutral budgetary effect, as they do not give rise to any further burden on the State budget and on the budget of the railway operators, they do not cause any loss or increase of public revenue, and finally do not affect the current medium-term budgetary strategy framework, as they have already been budgeted in the framework of the deleted e.g. 41/2005. Looking briefly at the draft law, I stress the following features, making a brief reference to the chapters and articles it contains. In the first chapter, in the general provisions, this Law applies to the use of railway infrastructure for domestic and international railway services. Accordingly, exemptions from its scope shall be introduced, taking due account of the specific nature and characteristics of the railway transport networks concerned. In particular, I mention that the provisions of this Law do not apply to urban and suburban transport carried out in the metro, tram and electric-powered metropolitan railways. It also excludes local and regional autonomous passenger transport networks in the railway infrastructure, which have a width different to that of the main rail network and are intended for only tourist purposes or have historical value, as well as the private railway infrastructure which exists exclusively for use by the infrastructure owner for the same freight transport activities. In this way, therefore, the public and sensitive social character of the above-mentioned categories of the rail network and means of transport in our country is safeguarded, for the benefit of all the public interest. It is explicitly foreseen that the duties of the infrastructure manager and the licensing authority are entrusted to the OSE and the Regulatory Authority respectively, namely the RAS. On the question of the definition of the infrastructure manager, which was put at the committee meeting yesterday by the Member, Mr Maniotis, and the proposed non-inclusion of the concept of an entity, we consider the following: At this stage, the tasks of the infrastructure manager may only be performed by the OSE, which operates as a public undertaking, always acting in the public interest. He is the only body with the management know-how of the railway infrastructure in the country and, as a result, the existing institutional framework has not provided for the ability to carry out the task by other entities. It is also noted that, inter alia, two new fundamental, important concepts are introduced in the national legislation for the railway sector and, in particular, for the structure of the railway market, the installation for the provision of services and, secondly, the installation operator for the provision of services. The second chapter, entitled ‘Railway Development’, focuses on the independence of railway undertakings and infrastructure managers vis-à-vis the public, promoting transparency and the competitive nature of the rail market, with a view to strengthening it against other modes of transport. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] I'll take my dentistry time as well. I won't talk again. Thank you very much. Indeed, the fact that railway undertakings are free to take critical decisions on their organisation and activity is an additional guarantee to ensure their independent operation. The exercise of the basic tasks by the independent infrastructure manager ensures fair and non-discriminatory access to the infrastructure. A renewable five-year railway infrastructure development strategy shall also be established by the infrastructure manager. Under normal business conditions and for a reasonable period of time, which will not exceed the period of five years, the infrastructure manager’s profit and loss account balances, at least, revenue from infrastructure charges, including state funding. Specific reference shall be made to the integrated financial resolution framework of the OSE and the ‘TRAINOSE’, referring in particular to the provisions of Article 13 of Law 3891/2010. In this connection, the Minister will make a more detailed report. The conditions for access to railway infrastructure are developed in detail, with the aim of providing, on the one hand, fair, transparent and non-discriminatory conditions, the right to carry out all types of rail transport of goods and, on the other, the provision of international passenger transport services, while, on the other, ensuring the economic viability of the services provided through a public service, passenger transport. With regard to the proposal by the honourable Member to the Committee yesterday, to provide for the assent of the Infrastructure Manager, in the decision of the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, to determine the facilities for the provision of services to railway undertakings, it cannot be accepted for the following reasons: Firstly, the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, as you certainly know, supervises the Infrastructure Manager and cannot be subject to his decision in the operator's agreement. For this reason, his recommendation has been provided for in the draft law. Secondly, GIOSE, respectively, as a part of the real estate that is available for these facilities, should give an opinion on the basis of the relevant recommendations of the Infrastructure Manager. In Chapter C, ‘Railways Licensing’, it is defined that the competent authority for the authorisation of railway undertakings is the Regulatory Authority for Railways, the RAS, which operates under specific restrictions. In particular, it does not provide the same rail transport services and is independent of such undertakings or bodies. The general requirements regarding conditions of authorisation are laid down, making it necessary for access to the railway infrastructure to be granted a safety certificate by the safety authority, thereby ensuring the high safety levels to be respected by the railway undertaking for the benefit of the passenger. In order to ensure the provision of reliable and appropriate transport services, any undertaking applying for authorisation must be able to demonstrate to the licensing authority that it fulfils the requirements of reliability, financial surface, professional competence and the coverage of its civil liability. Chapter IV promotes the optimum and effective use of available capacity by the infrastructure manager by promoting equal and non-discriminatory access to all enterprises and by meeting as far as possible the needs of all users and types of travel in a fair and non-discriminatory manner. In addition, the structure and content of the network declaration are specified in detail, contributing decisively to the introduction of conditions of absolute transparency in the railway market. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Just a little more time, please. In addition, the obligation to conclude a contractual agreement between the State, namely the Ministers for Finance and Infrastructure, Transport and the Infrastructure Manager, is laid down, which in detail regulates the rules governing their relationship and is published within a specified period. The fees for the use of the railway infrastructure and the facilities for the provision of services shall be paid to the infrastructure manager and the installation operator for the provision of services and shall be used to finance their activities. The possibility of applying a compensation scheme for unpaid environmental accidents and competitive modes of transport infrastructure is laid down. A performance system shall be established. Extensive analysis is made in the article in question, so as not to delay. A comprehensive set of provisions aimed at the integrated and balanced regulation of tonnage rights shall be established to fully respect, in a transparent manner, the rights of all applicants and to apply accurately. The designation of part of the infrastructure as ‘losed’ by the infrastructure manager takes place when, following the coordination of rail routes and the consultation with the applicants, it is not possible to properly meet requests for infrastructure capacity. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] I will not go into the final transitional provisions, so as not to consume any more time. I would just like to mention, again, because you made a point yesterday in committee, that we are abolishing the provisions of Article 3(3) and (4) of Law 3891/2010, which refers to the provision of training by the OSCE and the establishment of its subsidiaries, I would draw your attention, to seeing a little codification of Law 3891, where explicit reference is made to the definitions of the infrastructure manager, replacing them in accordance with the relevant requirements of the directive. Thank you very much for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Dimitriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, first of all you will allow me to point out one fact. A few hours after the simple proportional vote, we come to plenary on a new draft law, the incorporation of the Community Railways Directive. In itself, this breaks down half the argument in yesterday's debate on behalf of Officer Responsibility, which said that it was allegedly the bill on simple analogues that is just to change the agenda for a difficult day's life. Indeed, everyday life is difficult, but we are here and we are fighting to change it. That is the main reason why we do not have a summer holiday in Parliament. That is why we have urgent procedures like today. Parliamentary time is constrained because it must concentrate to meet the needs of this period, the needs of a new government. It's a process necessary to pass this turning point. On this point, I would like to say another thing about today's debate. Colleagues from the centre and the centre-left have opened a special dialogue with our government ally on where political reality is going, which we are leading to in terms of the field of alliances at political level. We are following developments in this area with great interest, and we are still waiting for the final experience of coexistence with Mr Samaras' party to be presented, because it is still pending. At some point, this political area must tell us what this experience is, what the risk was and what the strategy is from now on is, in short, who will go and who will leave it. Regarding the directive, Directive 2012/34/EU firstly repeals all previous directives on the operation of the railways by recasting their provisions. Secondly, it is a merger in a single act and it is necessary to clarify legal acts with an important central objective, simplifying and modernising the institutional framework for rail transport in the European Union in a single, comprehensive and useful text. With regard to the rail sector in the European Union, weaknesses and problems are identified to compete with other modes of transport, firstly because of insufficient funding and infrastructure charges, secondly because there are lasting barriers to competition and, thirdly, because of the lack of appropriate regulatory supervision. This means that rail transport is not progressing satisfactorily and to the best extent outside the national borders of the Member States - of course, in Greece the landscape is particularly foggy on this issue and the expectations very low are not discussing it - and the negative impact on conditions of competitiveness in the railway sector. Secondly, the European rail system has been fragmented and is characterised by a lack of common best practice, incomprehensibility of the institutional framework, incomplete handling of key issues by the Member States. This directive therefore focuses on taking measures to tackle the above deficiencies and problems at European level and creating a single European railway area. The incorporation of the directive is intended first and then to implement effectively the measures adapted to the specificities of the railway sector in our country and to be integrated into an overall strategy for the sustainable development of railway infrastructure. It will create a rail market that will promote healthy competition. Transparent access and non-discriminatory operation of structures will be established, technical and administrative barriers will be lifted, equitable conditions will be ensured against competitive modes of transport, such as road networks. The purpose of integration is to have a positive impact on primary issues of performance, the flexibility and reliability of Greek rail transport, the encouragement of entry into the railway sector of new operators, particularly in the freight market. In particular, the main provisions of this Law concern general provisions, promotion of railways, licensing of railway undertakings, charging for the use of railway infrastructure and the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity, final provisions and other provisions and annexes. The drafting of the draft law has been structured on the following lines: firstly, transferring the same text to the directive and laying down delegated provisions for the adoption of joint ministerial decisions, where necessary, as well as identifying the competent national authorities, providing for the exercise of corresponding powers. The indirect objective of the Ministry of Infrastructure in this draft law is to simplify consultation with the European Commission, in the context of the procedure for assessing the correctness and completeness of the transposition of the directive. To conclude, the railroad in Europe and in our country will take its place and must take its place, i.e. a greater market share, namely a greater share in our everyday lives, with a view to a better environment, saving resources and making an attractive instrument in a new area of competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Mr. Ioannis Andrianos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, we are debating today, with the usual procedure in SYRIZA - ANEL as a matter of urgency, the draft law on harmonisation of legislation with European Directive 2012/34 on the creation of a single European railway area. This is a directive on the creation of an internal market, which concerns a major part of the European Union's infrastructure network. We, New Democracy, firmly believe that European integration, in addition to the other important aspects, is a process of value-added production for all Member States, a process from which we only have to win. The example of the railways is absolutely characteristic of this. This is because the problems and challenges facing the railway sector today and the transport of persons and goods in general require coordinated action at international level. We are therefore firmly in favour of a single European action to better coordinate Member States in this critical area. And to take it further away, I will say that the perspective of the European Union, given the major turbulence that is currently affecting almost all of Europe, also depends to a large extent on the successful outcome of such initiatives, because such initiatives in practice demonstrate that united, coordinated action is of benefit to us all, because it has tangible, positive results that are spread over all its Member States and its citizens. Those who really believe in the European structure must show our citizens the concrete ways that the European Union produces positive results in the lives of all of us. After all, if something proved the example of the United Kingdom, it is precisely that what is needed is a positive perspective rather than an invoking fear and future damage. On the issue of urgency it is clear that the urgency is also linked to Article 9, which concerns the deletion of the debts of TRAINOSE and OSE, which was a prerequisite for the sale of TRAINOSE to the Italian company. Of course, we are asking the Minister, as our rapporteur has said in the debate on the bill in committee, to inform Parliament and, therefore, the citizens of the amount of the loss of revenue involved in debt cancellation. Because this bill is related to the privatisation of 'TRAINOSE', we must clarify some things. First of all, we must recall the statements made by the current Minister of Development, Mr Stathakis, in 2013 - three years ago - that if TRAINOSE was then sold by the Samara Government for EUR 300 million - because that was the valuation - it would be a sale. Today, the government, which reacted to any privatisation, the government that threw up cords and threatened the candidate investors that it would cancel every deal with a law and an article, privatizes TRAINOSE for 45 million - half times under the amount that Mr Stathakis described as "export" -, privatises the airports, signifies the exploitation of the Greek, talks about the strategic importance of the investment of "COSCO" in the port of Piraeus and says that Kostas Karamanlis opened, with his policy and agreement at the time with "COSCO", a path that became a boulevard, as the Prime Minister said a few days ago. So, a perceptive policy of Costas Karamanlis who rabies fought at that time and the PASOK - to remember the real facts - as another investment has fought, I remind you of the acquisition of Finance Bank in Turkey, a successful move from the then administration of the National Bank, Mr Arapoglou, to remind the new colleagues, because in fact the arrogance and capture of the colleague who spoke just now with characterizations and a disastrous mood for the governance of Karamanlis, we respond with projects, with facts. So arrogance, Mr Colleague, and I will only confine myself to them, because you are now absent from the Chamber - and the reception is negative for a new politician. And he's a very bad consultant. On a different but similar subject the other day, the Deputy Minister for Migration Policy, Mr Mousalas, asked for an interview on the radio apologies - I see Mr Dendia here - from Mr. Dendia because he once protested against him. So he apologized - and this is to Mr Muzala's honour - because, as he admitted, he now admitted, exercising governance, he understood the complexity of issues that he considered from the standpoint of counter-population as simply a matter of urgency. I therefore believe that the current government owes an apology, not, of course, to the New Democracy and its members, but to the Greek people. It owes an apology, because as Mr Muszalas saw from the position of the Opposition that things are simple, so he owes an apology, because he made this wrong assumption a key issue of the campaign's election. So he owes an apology because he was fishing in the deep waters of populism and paganism without a reflection. And much more than an apology, the current government partners must commit, from now on, that, once again in the position of counterpopulation in the next elections, whenever they are made, they will not make the same mistakes, nor shadows of memoranda, nor magical solutions, nor threats to investors, nor investment in political destabilisation, nor inexpensive predatoryism. The New Democracy is voting for this bill because it incorporates an important European directive on the creation of a single European railway area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, too. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr. Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me first of all to begin with the subject of the Single Railway Area Directive. As far as the text itself is concerned, I think that the diligent rapporteur for Officerial Opposition, Mr Kostas Karamanlis, has dealt with this issue sufficiently. Of course, this legislation comes as a matter of urgency. We're used to by the government as an emergency. Without always adopting conspiracy theories, the accumulation of legislation at the end of July and at the beginning of August does not only say anything about government amateurism, it also says several things about the government's disposal, within the framework of the summer radar and the people's baths, to pass various rhyphetological regulations under the political horizon. There is, for example, a rouspheological amendment to each piece of legislation, or else. This is the government of the first time left in conjunction with the Independent Greeks. Now, let's go to the very text of the directive. Firstly, the explanatory statement proudly acknowledges that this framework is the framework that was adopted in principle by Law No.3891 and even refers, as the explanatory statement states, to an institutional pride of the Ministry, because Law No.3891 of 2010 introduced it before the directive. You will tell me the continuity of the state. It is, however, very interesting to turn a little back and see the Minutes of the then Parliament, which voted for No.3891/2010. Excuse me, but I was tempted to look into it. The then rapporteur of SYRIZA - he is still a SYRIZA agent, I do not usually use names to expose anyone, he has no meaning, I think you will recognize from style - he said good: 'Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to abuse the time, we voted against this bill at first' - he says that the SYRIZA rapporteur at the time does not need to say a name, he is still a SYRIZA official and he is active - 'cause he is a bill that shrinks the railway. He's loading crime on the back of society. He uses the OSE as a double experiment. On the one hand, as a European experiment to privatise railways that have not yet dared to make tough neoliberal governments. On the other hand, a model of wild, violent overthrow of industrial relations." That's what SYRIZA told us in 2010. "It's Wild stuff," SYRIZA told us in 2010. Today it is unresolved to recommend them. You're going to tell me: does anyone have the right to change their minds? Of course he has a right to change his mind. But what anyone who has to do is at least - our speaker, Mr Andrianos, said earlier - to address the Greek society, to explain to her what led him to change his mind and to apologize for that. This is honest action politically, but if you want it to be a matter of personal morality too. Because from the outset I believe that no one enters politics just to confirm his personal ambition or vanity. He serves a purpose. This objective is not an independent principle of political practice. It does not move in a metaphysical horizon of overrealistic treatment that suits us when it suits us. We're all serving here. Somehow we serve it. The change of eighty degrees of progress owes a political explanation. And that is always done by this government. Of course, the last explanation we are prepared to accept is the continuation of the state. I wish the government cared about the state's continuation. It is continuously received, by the Prime Minister, until the last Member, for the violent interruption of what was for the 40 years of the post-multiple state. As a matter of fact, we suddenly entered a new era. But wherever it suits us, this new era we forget it. This is where we have another symptom. TRAINOSE was awarded to the Italian company for 45 million. I would remind you - it was reiterated earlier - that in 2013 it said that it was a sale of 300 million at the time. Selling the 300 million, perfect for 45 million. And, of course, silence. It would perhaps also be a very interesting case here, since we have the political leadership of this ministry here, to give us an explanation to the National Representation on the matter of Identified, ladies and gentlemen. In other words, without any real reaction, either of this ministry and of course the relevant Ministry of Interior, there was no reaction to the violent break-up of the Greek rail network by the European rail network. Or if you want, as our rapporteur once again said, why did we make this great gift at the ports of Adriatic and especially at the Slovenians? What was the agenda that led to this passive attitude? Was that charity? The concept of human rights? Apparently, it wasn't that. After all, under terrible conditions these people lived in Idomeni. Under the miserable circumstances of a false hope created by this government. No long-term interventions, with enormous damage to Greece, other short-term and already counted, other long-term. Because if a network loses its credibility, it loses a large part of its own value. But, of course, the situation of lawlessness is not just about Idomeni. We saw what happened yesterday in Thessaloniki after the occupation of Aristotle, which we had warned of. All the institutions of Thessaloniki had warned, after all, not just us. We did more than that. Members took us, as they did not have to, to the Ministry of Civil Protection and did a performance on it, if you like, trying to help. Because the usual way of reacting to opposition is in this Chamber through parliamentary control. Going and talking to the Minister responsible, suggesting that there's a problem here, and we'll find trouble is something more that makes anyone who wants to help out the place and prevent evil. So our MPs went and tried to catch up with the evil. The evil didn't catch up. There was an attack on the building of the City Hall of Thessaloniki, there were disasters, since they had, of course, accepted the statement from the relevant government lips that the situation is completely under control. As the situation in Exarchia seems to be, where people are murdered, others are parading with weapons, we have never seen this until today, and the inhabitants of the district of Exarchia are forced today to go to the Mayor of Athens, demanding that he do something, because they have now become the living aviator. And of course this situation extends to the whole city centre, the capital state, leading more businesses to close down, the property of people who are tired, founded, hurt, hurt, to make them, in full depreciation, to overthrow the lifestyle of people and that in whose name? This remains unknown. In whose name does the Greek democracy allow trolleybuses to burn on the street of Patisia? What is the highest good, which requires the State to retreat and not to comply with the conditions of the law? All this remains completely unexplained within the current Government. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is a little optimism. What is this optimism? The result of yesterday's vote. I think the government played its change yesterday and lost it. I think it was clear from the Prime Minister's speech. I've seen the Prime Minister about all his speeches in the Chamber. He is, as you know, a competent parliamentary speaker and a handler of the parliamentary speech. It was the first time I saw the Prime Minister's speech having a little bit of courage. In the end, just to say something, he was attacked again with the usual anti-New Democracy. After all, we've learned that, we've heard it. If you ever need to, we repeat them too, if you forget about them, so you know exactly what you're telling us. So what happened yesterday is that the government failed. What failed? She failed, changing the electoral law, to overthrow her path towards a withdrawal. However, something can be done in the light of this departure, which will sooner or later occur, to manage honestly and seriously the short time that it remains in power, to protect what remains of its minimal credibility and inferiority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, too. Mr. Koukoutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, we weren't here yesterday to see the speeches. We had gone to catch Pokemon, but that's what we missed and he became Chief of the New Democracy. On the other hand, I would like to say this: it is very sweet in Keracini. Mr. Neddy will reasonably have a pain in the ass now, but I don't think he'll be going this time, he went the next day, he didn't know, he didn't see yesterday, etc. Strange things happened yesterday in this Chamber and centred, progressive, democrat, centre-right, left-wing, right-wing, right-wing, centre-left, third-way, first-hand door, the other left, at the crossroads I found you and found me. And we'll finally take your food out on all of you sour in this place. We nationalists have sworn to the Greek people. And the first came yesterday, let some say: 'They went with the New Democracy', others say: 'Let's go with the Left, they would go, they would, they would.' We went home and it will prove very soon. So let's go to poor OSE. What can we say? Come in, people! Come in, comrades and comrades, tear everything down, sell it all, there's no problem, follow your predecessors. At least the JRC says: 'comrade and comrades' and believe it or below - they have their ideology. I don't understand what you've got now. Now you will also tell me PASOK "comrades" are being said. Anyway, it's a long story. Whatever we say, however, retrospectively is funny. They've all been signed since August 15, 15th, 1915. Whatever we say now at 45 million was sold off, TRAINOSE and Opposition then at Samaras had said that 300 million can be taken. But, of course, there was only interest. A buyer didn't come. The buyer was only now seen with FERROVIE and the "bride" fell to the table for 45 million. It would reduce the debt of 322 billion with this EUR 45 million! Ladies and gentlemen, the institutions, the notorious institutions have won. We're getting out! Greece is called the company and the best seller Alexis Tsipras and the lenders rub their hands. Years now the OSE has been in the Cyclones' eye with the premium for large motorways and road transport, with the reorganization, disorganization - as you want to take it - the services of the organization, with its fragmentation in companies and the continuous change of schemes, with a personal weakened staff, with cloudy organograms, with pensions, compulsory transfers, with works half-finished, which cause delays and ultimately with the justified indignation of the Greek people. The public has financed around EUR 500 million -460 in fact - for the establishment of modern signalling systems. You remember the infamous 'BOMBARDIER'. The competitions were now made by the well-known Electricity, Signalling, Telecommunications and Electrical Facilities Directorate and several were then transferred to the "ERGOSE". It is characteristic that they had undertaken the electrification of Piraeus - Athens - Thessaloniki in '96-97, with a view to completion in 2001. The project ended in 2009 and did not work practically. The competition was done with the design system at the time. Of course, there was no study, but not even a tender issue, but a few - that is what it is now called - 'functional specifications'. Yes, sir. Then we had the problem with the wires. The cables, he says, which were eaten by the mice, rodents - but they were the "eaters" and paid the poor rodents - even though the replacement of cables does not require a single manufacturer. However, on the basis of specifications, all signalling cables should be shielded electrically and protected from rodents. The old signals, he says, did not work as an integrated single system, with tragedies. The North Elderly MPs will know what is happening in the Vlachs, in Nea Ionia of Thessaloniki, where it is the largest train cemetery in Greece. In a thousand five hundred acres from the refinery height to the bridge of the French river, on ten old rail lines there are a thousand wagons abandoned. Who's taking this material from there and selling it as a scrap? I said this before in Parliament in 2013. Who are they stealing this material? But, no, I'm not gonna testify. I'll say it back then. I don't do "whispers." I'm not saying who's doing this. In 2008, therefore, one of the biggest scandals broke out on the Greek railroad. The protagonists were employees and managers of the organization, who were rich in selling rolling stock to Scrap and private companies. Six thousand eight hundred 11 wagons and a hundred machines. In only one case, a committee of officials sold thousands of tonnes of iron to EUR 57 per tonne when the price was at EUR 200. Full abandonment and dismantling image. Let us not forget that in October of '13, when I had spoken from this Stepma, there had been three cases of theft only in the Peloponnese. In Lappa Achaias they had stolen rail lines. We Peloponnesians know very well what is happening in the Peloponnese with OSE. Traina don't exist, renovations happen and they still work. Anyway, in the Holy Kingdom of Corinth, three hundred meters of railway line had been taken. And yet, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek trains which have so far been devalued can become profitable, business and development tools. After all, they are not only intended to transport people, but mainly goods. They are wrong for those who relate to the viability of the trains only to their passenger traffic. Greece can, or rather could - now it is impossible - become a transport hub of Europe and Central Greece can become the transport hub of Greece. There are too many things we can say. We can talk hours endless. Besides, it's not just the OSE who was deceived in this country. We're making a promise. We who have an older age know that trains in Greece are linked to our childhood. You will now tell me: "Would you like, say, Kalamata to go to Athens in seven hours, as the train used to do?" No, of course, but we did not have time to see the trains whistle from Kalamata to Athens through Tripolis because when the renovation took place, the line was abandoned. The absolute humiliation. Sell, gentlemen, sell.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u55	Mrs. Kefalidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the incorporation of a directive on the horizontal integration of the railway market, a directive which, as the Minister admitted, has been ready since March 2015. It was necessary once again to reach the 'and five' to come to the House with the well-known urgency. This is not the government's continuing tactic. We've told it so many times in most of the draft laws you've brought, but your ear doesn't sweat. For you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, it is clear that the parliamentary procedure is an unnecessary 'lanja' and you are looking at it quickly. I wonder if that is what you intend to do with the next five or six bills that, from what I hear, you are planning to close this House. At some point you will have to find the courage to tell the world that has voted for you what is your real view of the parliamentary procedures laid down in the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament. For this draft law, there was all the time to have a substantial debate and the parties to have time to formulate their positions, to listen to the actors and the social partners. Perhaps this latter is what scared the government and the Minister of State in the face of the sale of the 'TRAINOSE', and so again resorted to the laudable tactics of urgency because of the interruption of Parliament's work, on the pretext of the suffocating timetable and the commitments we have made with the mandatory harmonisation of a directive which has been ready for the last sixteen months. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is the incorporation of a directive which refers to the unification of the railway market and can under conditions and conditions contribute to the development of the Greek railway. Its aim is to make the relations between the various railway companies clear and to allow the European countries to have a single system so that the rail system is competitive with regard to road and other transport. If it is true once that rail transport in the countries of the European Union has not evolved to the desired extent within the national borders, this applies to our country a hundred times more, so this directive on condition could be far more important for Greece than it seems and you can imagine. Today, growth in the rail transport sector and its ability to successfully compete with other modes of transport is hampered by serious problems, problems relating to insufficient funding and infrastructural charges, constant barriers, competition and the lack of appropriate regulatory supervision. These problems are coming to an end to this directive. The issues of the Greek railway market are enormous and the quality of the services of the national railway sector is far from satisfying the current needs. The measures of Directive 2012/34 of the European Union, if implemented, but adapted to the Greek reality and within a framework of a strategy to promote the healthy, efficient and sustainable development of railway infrastructure, will form a rail market extremely competitive and in other ways by giving a new parameter of wealth to related sectors such as trade and exports. I would like to refer to Rule 9. According to this provision, therefore, both the debts of TRAINOSE and the TRAINOSE are derecognised. It is a sad move, but unfortunately it is necessary for the process of selling the 'TRAINOSE' to proceed. In this sense, this draft law is entirely linked to this sale and let the Minister not want to see that. Thus, the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks should have sent data on the level of revenue loss, as a result of the provision of this article. Unfortunately, until yesterday, nothing has been sent and this is the result of the report by the General Accounting Office of the State. A debate with a normal procedure and not with the urgency procedure, and with all the elements of the debts that are being deleted, I think it would be of great interest to all of us, so that we can see our mistakes and finally understand that there is no room for repeating them. Furthermore, this knowledge would allow us to understand - it was said by many colleagues in the Commission - whether the sale price of TRAINOSE was sufficient, how from EUR 300 million we reached EUR 45 million and we are satisfied. But for the government all these are very fine letters. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity and it is against six years of memoranda that we should wait every time for the pressure of the outsides, the troika, the lenders, the partners, the European Union, to deal with essential issues relating to our country's tomorrow. This well-known national plan for the reconstruction of Greece has become more than an uncertain need, certainly much more than electoral law or a reduction in the rating limit for scholarships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u57	And we thank you for respecting time. Minister Spirtzis has the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, in order to prepare Members from all the parties, we are tabling some legislative improvements that have emerged from yesterday's debate in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and from the prior consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Maniatou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister about one of the legislative improvements, which I hope I do not understand correctly, I do not read well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Maniotis, in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u63	It's for a clarification. In Article 61(b)(1), in the original text without the Minister's amendment, he states: ‘The members of the Energy Regulatory Authority shall not be allowed to hold a seat in the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks and its supervised entities and legal persons’. The obvious! In other words, a regulatory authority may not have members belonging either to bodies that regulate or to the Ministry that supervises the bodies. The obvious! If I read well, do you abolish this? Is it allowed to members of the Ministry or your advisers or members of the OSE or the ‘TRAINOSE’ or other bodies participate in the regulator, which must be neutral and above and beyond interests and other kinds of priorities?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u64	Let me give you a reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u65	Will you now answer the substance or will you do so in your speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u66	I can do a placement just to avoid delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u67	I get it. I say he does it in his speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u68	Because if it is what I am reading it is not a statute, but something condemned that will also lead us to change our attitude.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u69	Can I answer you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u70	Oh, no. You should respond better to your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u71	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We are also discussing feasibility. The Directive states that Member States are to ensure that those persons who are involved in the administration of the regulatory authority act independently of the interests of the market in relation to the railway sector and therefore do not have an interest or business relationship with any of the regulated undertakings or bodies. What does that mean? It means that we may have a member of the public administration who is a communist in the OSCE, the 'ATITIC MERO' or elsewhere - it has nothing to do with anything, obviously they are supervised - and these people must also be able to participate. They can't be just teachers, Mr. Maniatis. We cannot only allow teachers or former judges to participate in the regulators. There could be other renowned faces. What we have tabled here and also emerged from the debate yesterday is obviously inconsistent with what is set out in the directive and in common sense, but as far as possible, we must have an extension to the premises and businesses from which these people, who also have a professional experience, can be chosen. It's not bad. We cannot simply restrict people who do not have any involvement, according to what the directive says and who are common sense and are private companies, who are competitive or advisers or scholars. That's all in the inconsistency anyway. But as it was formulated, people who are also excluded from bodies supervised by the Ministry, who have nothing to do with it, and I do not see why these people cannot submit an application and be evaluated together with the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u72	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Manatis, in your speech. Ping-Pong won't happen now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u74	It'll just take more time. Give me some time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u75	Will you talk now and get a dentext?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u76	I want to ask which other regulatory authority is what the Minister says. But in any case, if it goes that way, I'll take the floor, and I'll answer for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u77	The Parliamentary Representative of the River, Mr Dannelis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna make a little reference to the course of my positioning on the subject. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday new unknown origin, covered by the high ideals of solidarity, expressed in the most antisocial way a blind anger and hatred destroying with mania, which destroys every concept of culture in a favoured state, the facilities of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and the City Hall of Thessaloniki. Universities, by common accord, and not now, are areas of knowledge of innovation, openness and culture, and not areas that impart and cover the violence and destruction, which even cover behind high ideals. A favoured state, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be an observer of extreme hooliganism and the destruction of public wealth. Those who until yesterday flirted with violence, assuming that they were probably serving them, I imagine that today they realise that no expression of her with any version that she can have, intensity or form, can be open to a democracy. The older ones now, because unfortunately we have much bigger ones. The expansion of the neighbouring country in destabilisation makes it unpredictable, and the control of powers by the monarch, generalised cleansing, the rule of law, further away Turkey from Europe and the Western world, making it particularly dangerous. This is a very worrying reality, especially for Greece. The answer to the question which Turkey is going to ask, and what its external orientation is now about, is about our country more than any other country and therefore needs to be read out of coolness, awareness and clear reading of the situation. We also need close - close - cooperation with our partners in the European Union and NATO. In the tragicity of these events, however, it is an opportunity to reflect on the criminal naivety of those who last year dreamed of occupying the Mint - those remembers - and the involvement of the army to secure order, ignoring the appalling consequences. It's a year ago and it looks like an eternity, but it's just yesterday. Let us also consider the indescribable nonsense of those who considered or still consider the port to be safe for our country outside Europe. For, ladies and gentlemen, as long as Europe is not the dream of our dreams here, attempts or thoughts, even coups, are not meant. We are today discussing the urgent procedure for incorporating Directive 34/2012 into national law, which concerns the codification and clarification of European directives which belong to the first package of measures for the single European railway area. A directive which, not least, Greece was required, like the other countries of the Union, to enter into force on 16 June 2015. We have used up the entire transitional period - and that is obviously not where you have no responsibility, because you were not a government. Then comes the 25-2-16 notification from the Commission, we have the awareness of colleagues who believe that rail as the most environmentally friendly means of transport should be supported. So, colleagues of the SYRIZA with their 3866 question to you, Mr Minister, expressed concern about the delay in integration, and it has been almost half the time since to come to discuss this directive today in the urgent procedure, because it is prerequisite to complete the sale of the 'TRAINOSE', I imagine. Here we must note, of course, that Greece, never before our country, was not friendly on the railroad. Furthermore, it is no coincidence that it is a small extension of the rail network in our country from the Trikoupi era onwards. Of course, within the range of opportunities that we are losing from a European point of view, we have not exploited significant resources for the network, not only for modernising but also for expanding our network, which are available from the trans-European transport networks or the CEF Special Fund, the Connecting Europe Facility, but this is another matter. Here, in this particular case, I think that you have some doubts and some of your own internal fundamental contradictions that need to be overcome. We have, on the one hand, the European Union, which is trying to ensure that citizens and users of railway services are cheaper and at the same time more quality services, while ensuring healthy competition by imposing and respecting specific rules. So we have led to this package - which was not easy at all to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude - the measures and regulations for the single European area. I had the luck of participating in the formulation of this package as a member of the European Parliament's Committee on Transport and Tourism in those years and it was extremely difficult to reconcile major contradictions, major differences of interest or perceptions or structures of state. It was a great contradiction between Germany and France, but Europe - for the benefit of the consumer, the user of the service - has come to a conclusion here on the whole of the rules. In my contradictions, on the one hand, this European effort to support the user, the consumer, the citizen for their services and their costs, and on the other hand, we have your own perception of what you can do to ensure the continuation of a distorted State-owned customer model, a model that, apart from what it costs, cost the users a great deal - and not the users of services - provides problematic services, when it has been available to users. We must understand, Minister, that a left-wing philosophical policy is not today a battle against backsliding of acquired trade union interests, indeed the interests of certain sectors of a fragmented society, which managed at a time when they were able to gain influence disproportionate to the public service they provided and which they provided. Months now we see a strike taking place at no cost for the strikers - and here it is a huge issue of political morality - but at a huge cost both for the company and the public interest and for the citizens and users. At the same time as the company recorded damages, not only from the non-sale of tickets or the loss of transport work or the payment of compensation clauses, the cost of employees' wage costs at the same time increased this damage, because they were workers who were paid without working. As for users of the services, they are, of course, desperate, as are the other means of transport that, in solidarity with the strikers of TRINOSE, created a chaotic reality for users of urban transport in Attica. A special weight was lifted, too, by those passengers who wanted to travel to and from the airport with these constant strikes of solidarity. Is that a left policy? Is that a charity policy? A left-wing government must aim to strike a balance between the rights that democracy provides its citizens, but also to defend the rule of law, namely the individual rights of citizens who are defenceless in the face of interest and influence groups. Citizens see in it their everyday lives degraded, their entrepreneurship constantly put in doubt and, of course, unarmed. These contradictions despise both the position of the workers and their rights and public wealth and, of course, lead to much worse effects than those feared - those who fear them. We have too many examples. See with what folly we ran the case of selling Olympic planes. I am not talking about Olympics, which were useless, which had no demand. The charge that always held that any sale would be a sale, led to the absolute depreciation and after they cost us the money to keep it and pay the rent for their presence or their maintenance, we are of course giving it as "bier than". This is not a safeguard in the public interest, nor is it a rationale. Of course, that is how we lead to a sale by losing exploitation. With the 'TRAINOSE' we had exactly the same course. It has come to be threatened with "morture beat", such as Cyprus Airways, to close and be given a price for a euro to be reborn and created, so that we can get to the last minute to sell this price to "Ferrovie dello Stato". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me a minute, please. So, when it was estimated that the price was 300 million, you were talking about "the selling of silver". We have come to give 45 million, when 50 million is the annual support - State subsidy for public service, which will provide the barren lines, etc. I will shorten my position, but I think we have no more room for ambiguity, rejoicing, crocodile tears, etc. The country will not be orbited if, among other things, it does not make rational use of public property, public wealth. I think that, for example, I will conclude - and I shall end - that we have now reached the government, in the middle of the year, to accept that the aim of entering the funds of the State in the amount of 2.5 billion from the democracies scheduled to be completed by the end of the year is impossible - and we are talking, if everything goes well, about 2 billion of the demobilizations that will be completed - the question arises straight away: half a billion - if it is half a billion - which will be a deficit in the budget, from where will it be found? Again, we're going to find out what we're going to tax and where we're going to get them? That is why I said just now that we have no more time for experimentation or for the continuation of another world that we thought is true, but it is not the case. The ideas, the logic we had in the past, it's time for them to leave us. Let us realise that the reality does not await and let us realise that the creation of jobs, which is the major issue at the moment, cannot come unless we ensure conditions that are friendly to healthy entrepreneurship that are far from the standards of state-owned entrepreneurship, to which we have learned until yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Mavrosh from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. This draft law harmonises Greek legislation with the European directive on the creation of a single European railway area. It is a directive laying down common rules for the Member States on the management and use of railway infrastructure, which in Europe are very developed, but in Greece they are still in the previous century. This is another missed opportunity for our country, with the responsibility of the post-war governments who saw the train as the'suckle' of transport. But it's never too late. In a country which is the south-east of Europe, it is a privileged area for the development of combined transport. Sea and land transport, port infrastructure, in combination with freight centres, can bring Asia's developing markets closer to Europe, taking off our country's attractiveness at economic and geopolitical level. The various economic studies, McKinsey, IOBE, consider combined transport and transit centres as the main competitive advantages of our country. Greece is blessed to be surrounded by sea and if we do not use this comparative advantage with the appropriate infrastructure, then we are worthy of our destiny. The railroad, however this sounds oxymobile, can multiply these benefits, whether this concerns goods or passengers. Ports, when combined with fixed track instruments, launch the development prospects of many areas. Take Lavrios with its port or Rafina for example. Some tens of miles of suburban to Lavrio or Rafina an entire area can make it blossom, launching possibilities for the development of Mediterranean and maritime transport. As much as it seems oxymoor, a few kilometers of rail can also benefit dozens of islands, by accessing them to make it easier, faster, cheaper. Think about it. In closing this brief introduction, I should like to say that in relation to railway infrastructure, because we have a great deal of backwardness as a country, we also have a great opportunity, a great dynamic development. Due to our country's geographical location and because of the modern trend in combined transport and supply chain, the train can ultimately be one of our strong cards for developing and trying out of the crisis. One differentiated portfolio in land transport, where road and rail transport will compete, having each of its own advantages, can only benefit the Greek economy. In this bill, our rapporteur referred in detail to the directive. Let me also refer to two - three points. As mentioned in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, there will be a loss of revenue in Article 9, from the deletion of OSE and TRAINOSE debts. But it doesn't say how much. Why? Because no evidence has been sent from the expedited Ministry. But is that possible? We said,'nice people have debts', but don't know how many of them are? Let's keep this in here, because if it gets out, they'll laugh at us. We're gonna cut off every bridge with seriousness and credibility, at least as much as we have left. We don't know how much the debts are, but we know how they were created. Remember, for example, in 2004 in the OSCE Group and in TRAINOSE there were 8,412 employees, with the cost of paying EUR 248 million. In 2009 with 6.345 employees, i.e. 2,200 fewer, the payroll cost was about 300 million euros. Overall, the black balance sheet hole OSE and TRAINOSE exceeds EUR 700 million - Greek taxpayers' money, of course. So we are wrong, ladies and gentlemen, to be in favour of privatization? Where do we say no to paying the Greek taxpayer the backbone of the governments? The guilty one here isn't SYRIZA, it's the other ones. SYRIZA is just a very good student of past bad practices. Looks like the best of the kind are teaching him. In his hand, however, it is to prove otherwise. Undoubtedly, the privatisation of TRAINOSE was the only way to rescue and sustainable development of the company. But, both under the responsibility of the governments and the respective opposition, the decisions on privatisation are constantly referred to the bells. They've been possessed. Bomb digs into the next one. So when we have arrived at nothing, we are basically divesting instead of exploiting. Because - something I have not understood in this government - the blockades are costing and see how much the delay in opening the line in Idomeni has been. Some may sell resistance and leftlessness to the people who voted for them, but the people themselves pay for these delays with hundreds of millions. And so, while two and a half years ago, the 300 million, which was to be sold by TRAINOSE, was provokedly low priced by Mr Stathakis - and one question is why the previous government did not proceed with privatisation - today these 300 million have become 45 million, as the left leg of Christian Ronaldo, which is not his good. SYRIZA - ANEL, however, are more brave in privatization than New Democracy and PASOK, since they are not so easily bent by the reactions of Anti-Population, they are moving forward. In conclusion, let me point out from here and the unacceptable situation of our parliamentary work in this House, which is currently under the responsibility of the government and the Bureau. We have six or seven bills in one week and this is an urgent one. And well, if you have more than 50 MPs, you can get them out. However, the smaller parties that have ten to fifteen MPs, how will they cope? It is not possible to clone Members. Yesterday, for example, I was at the same time in three committees. So are other colleagues. Unless you consider the processes to be decorative, or if you consider the smaller parties to be decorative, you only care about the counter of the two big ones. So, at this time, we have several and overlapping committees on the bills that will come, but also ad hoc committees, such as the Committee of Inquiry into the loans of parties and instruments, a very interesting and enlightening examination committee which, in general, makes us wiser, as do all the Members who are involved in either Co-Police or Counterfeiting. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Ten more seconds, Mr President. I hope that the Members of this House will not change their minds on the usefulness of the committees of inquiry in the debate which will take place on Tuesday on the committee of inquiry concerning the period in question. The truth must shine and illuminate all the aspects of the events that have marked the course of our country so far and have led us here. So it should light up all sides on both the left and the right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Kostas Zouraris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, I have asked for the floor for some time now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u83	After Mr. Zurari.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, my respects. “With the gun on the head and by strangler.” Are there two expressions by which the International Fund, which looks at the demilitarisation of public bodies, expresses the political and the situation in Greece since it appeared here because of the bankruptcy of the country that I did not do - is a training exercise, can you prove what I contributed to bankruptcy? That would be very good, on the right. I still don't understand it. The International Fund for Refugees says that the governments of Greece after 2010, after the bankruptcy of the country, which they now impose on us, the well-known motto, the head of Brussels, are obliging us to legislate. I also heard the Minister and the Minister yesterday, which said, of course, that a number of provisions in there are due to the state of the country, i.e. the triumphs, in which the country in which the bankruptcies were held, whose bankruptcies began immediately after the transfer, and in which - I repeat - I did not participate, because the responsibilities are also personal and personal. The second element is: Have you perceived some of you in here because the railroad in Greece has never developed? Because he didn't offer a mole. After the civil war and our mutual defeat, the defeated Basilodexia party and the same subsequent defeat of the Vasiliocentres until 1974 effectively imposed the abandonment of the railroad. Why? For the country's shortness? Switzerland's shortfall is much more difficult than Greece's shortfall. And yet Switzerland is moving by rail. Why? Because the train is having a hard time with the mob, it's a lot of trains, etc. The bus allowed the defeated basodexia party and the equally defeated basilica party to provide local microscopes with permission, because my dad did not take it, because he did not have a certificate of social opinions in the exiles, and they did the buses. It's a small expense. I've always lived in Macedonia, and in the surveillance zone back in 1948, 1949 and well in 1951, because we were communists, to go to Edessa, we had to get permission from the Third Army Body for the fifty kilometers of Edessa. Therefore, the collector received information from who goes up, who goes down to what village you went down to, what attitude you took, who exactly did, and then sent it to the police department concerned, which transferred it to the relevant CFP and to the relevant CIA, here at the Military Equity Fund. That's the second element. The third element is that I have seen the legislation. The attempt at legislation of this Government is essentially within a bombed landscape to salvage the rag. Of course, in a measure, I know, there's some cover. Of course, safety precautions - and my good man, George Lazaridis, has said so - and I will not repeat the details - are supposed to be guaranteed any income if these agreements are in operation and some guarantee of intervention by the Greek State, but all this is on the verge of the future, i.e. I repeat that it is essentially the responsibility of the scientific paper. I would remind you that once I watched a English driver, I had seen him say the following. As soon as the privatisation of the railroads in England took place, trains were derailed by private derailments and private privatisations with dead people in the London suburban. Britain was then forced to re-state the railroads. They left it here now because we held it because of France's resistance. Therefore, this piece of legislation is essentially abrupt to the full-fledged situation in Greece and reminds me of some of the arguments put forward by the Central Right of the present. Of course, nothing to do with which people at the time and today, obviously. However, it reminds me of the logic of arguments at the time of 1942-1944 to ELAS and EAM. Do not resist, because the Germans are putting a car with hostages in front to blow the car first. Don't resist, because the Germans are hitting civilians. Commence and understand that the first virtue is this: know that you are in possession. When you understand that you are and we are in possession, the recovery may begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u85	But you didn't tell us about the truck. Others you taught us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u86	Thank you. Mr. Zouraris was on time until a second. Mr Shahinides, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there have been many times in this House the question of why there is a general disdain in terms of politics and politicians. This has to do with the behaviors. I would say hypocritically and repeatedly there are two measures and two standards. As far as the Members of the Golden Dawn are concerned, whenever they talk or if you like, and whenever they are overthrown, if they raise their voices at some stage or make a reference which does not suit you, the Bureau, with no exception, makes recommendations that are strict and, in fact, relatively recently, we have also had threats with guardians. What did we see yesterday? Yesterday we saw the President of the Parliament practically attack one party leader, asking for the floor, and we saw a Member from the Democratic Alliance telling another party leader some designations. In fact, the leader of this party stood up and moved threateningly and made simple recommendations to him. The Bureau did not call the Guardian to restore order. So no remarks will be tolerated again if you are not corrected first. We have told you repeatedly that respect is won. Show us the respect we must, if you want us to respect you in this Chamber. We have heard from the various speakers for a EUR 300 million offer. But no one said who that offer was. I didn't hear anyone mention. The Parliamentary Representatives and the rapporteurs of the parties and the speakers who have spoken so far have just mentioned the sum of EUR 300 million. I would also like to know from the Golden Dawn from whom this offer existed. I will simply submit to the Minutes of the House what Mr Stathakis said some time ago, as far as the sale price for the 'TRAINOSE' is concerned. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Yesterday, in committee, the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Mr Spirtz, said that harmonisation with European directives on the creation of a single European rail network should be imposed, because otherwise Greece will pay fines and have sanctions. Indeed, Minister, a few days ago there was a similar debate in the Committee of the Regions, where I asked the Director of Central Macedonia, Mr Djijkostas, why the link between the railway network of the port of Thessaloniki and the rest of the rail network is being discussed, since the port is to be sold. We do not understand why the infrastructure of a rail network should be improved once it is to be sold. There's no sense in that. Rather, there are no acoustic ears in this Chamber. Upgrade the infrastructure. But, whatever has to do with transport, energy or any other neural state body, don't think about depriving him, because we as Greek nationalists, when taking over management and power, will take it back. What does it look like here in relation to the New Democracy? By the electoral law passed yesterday they said they would bring back the previous electoral law. Here's our difference, compared to all of you, gentlemen. The New Democracy is simply interested in returning the privileges to the MPs, contrary to us Greek nationalists who are interested exclusively in the interests of the Greek citizen. I could not fail to mention Mr Tindemans. Yesterday, he issued a press release, which, I understand, must have hurt him too much to make this move. He said the Golden Dawn lies. A liar and a killer is Nikos Dendias himself. He's a liar because, first, what he said in the press release wasn't said in Golden Dawn. That was said by a Golden Dawn class witness at the Golden Dawn trial. What else, however, had Mr. Dendias done from whom we are calling for a Golden Dawn explanations within Parliament, but will he also be called upon to give an explanation to justice itself? Pray, wearing the chop, holding a raven in his hand and making appeals to Buddha and all religions, not to be involved in the issue of guarding the officials and the Chief of the Golden Dawn. What's he done? He had the right as Head of Authority to go and to be informed of the crime in Keratsini. But he had no right to go and ask for pre-examination material, which he did in the presence of the Police spokesman. What did he do? After taking the next day of the murder, he asked Christides - who gave a statement as I told you - the cameras and the material from his store. And after he told him that cameras are fake, he was only based on this man's testimony and didn't even get into the process to get police to check if the witness's words are true or not, that is, whether these cameras were merely decorative to intimidate and operate deterrently or actually function. After a few days - nine specifically - they went to get pre-inquiry material from very distant shops and didn't even enter the adjacent stores. But since all this particular witness had testified to the interrogator Ms. Clapa, these are not by magic today in the file. We wonder what's going on here. We as Chryssayites, as Greek nationalists, think of one thing: There is indeed a criminal organisation, but it is made up of Mr Samaras, of Mr. Dendias, of Mr. Athanasios and of all those who have put in prison, who have tried to destroy people and their lives and their families on the basis of one thing alone: the increase in percentages they have as a party. If so, if they take democracy - I have said it yesterday and the other day - with the same democracy we will treat you, gentlemen. You have all repeatedly referred to the 300 million bid. I will tell you where this offer came from: this offer was made by the Russians, who are now accused of being a scam and a discriminatory behaviour by the Government and the TIAD, which the Russian state-owned company RUSSIAN RAILWAYS, a subsidiary of which would have submitted a bid for the acquisition of TRAINOSE. The Russian company, officially replying to the question why it did not submit a bid, replied that the information was not provided to them, which would allow them to proceed to the tender. The information they requested was the last half-year balance requested by TRAINOSE and TEAD in order to participate in the tender. If you do not know, I would inform you that Russia has a law that prevents any Russian state-owned company from taking over another state-owned company unless these balances are provided for the last six months. The Russian railways did not have the information they needed on the 'TRAINOSE' so that they could submit this binding offer, which you have in mind was exactly six times that of the Italians. The President of the Russian railways, then, made a complaint, not only because they were not given the six-month balance sheet, but because the Italians submitted an offer which did not really meet the conditions laid down. So they did not respect the terms of the competition. So how has the Italians benefited from the 'TRAINOSE'? The paradox, however, throughout this story is the so-called 'private', which the Italians will receive and which is worth 300 million for the period 2015-2020, as a speaker said just before. We are talking about EUR 50 million annually as a subsidy for feral lines, which have little demand. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. That's how I'm being an investor. The price is degradingly low, with no debts and a subsidy for non-commercial routes. Only a fool wouldn't take a chance like that. In other words, as much as it costs a F-16 instead of Ronaldo's feet we heard earlier, the Italians were sold to the Greek railways and the "TRAINOSE". We are constantly hearing about a better offer. Tell us. Why don't you tell them? Also, and I close with this, various positions have been heard, for example Mr. Danellis, who well denounced the vandalisms that took place at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, as well as the vandalisms that took place at the City Hall of Thessaloniki. But he did not mention that these vandals, who were all unfamiliar - most of them Spanish and German - chartered fifteen buses and transported seven hundred fifty people to the city of Xanthi and continued the vandalism there. I ask: Northern Greece, as you know very well, has too many cities. What's the point of moving them? Is it because, in two days from today, the so-called Turks will take place in Xanthi? Madam Minister, your Government should take immediate steps to protect not only Greek citizens, but also protect national sovereignty. Unfortunately, Greece has been filled with traitors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u88	Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor. Will you talk from there, or will you come to Stepma? It's an adventure, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u89	I am not losing his way, Mr President. Don't be afraid! Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor, not because I have something to judge on a directive which should already have been ratified, and on which, moreover, no amendments are permitted. All I want to do is comment on a number of important issues that the Greek people must listen to. The Centro Association is a European party, which has always advocated European prospects, investment and not State-owned logic. Of course, the directive comes to be ratified at this point in time because of the sale of the 'TRAINOSE'. As is reasonable, all Members today have commented on the low price of this convention, as well as on the fact that due to the manipulations of your own government the price is finally so low. Everyone, of course, reiterated that others were saying and doing more at the end. However, as a businessman, I understand that an investment can ultimately have a different price at a different time. It is now clear - and you prove this to be a great deal - that you are not able to negotiate the best for homeland. Yes, you are - I can say - incapable of negotiating. The sale of the "TRAINOSE" with the blessings of the European institutions is in order to break the scourge of government, bureaucracy and ruptures. My concern, however, is this and I ask, ladies and gentlemen, how do you allow the company to be sold to another public body in a foreign state? Because the 'TRAINOSE', as announced, is acquired by the Italian 'FERROVIE DELLO STATO ITALIANE', the manager of which is the Italian public and shareholder of which, among other things, are the French railways. So explain to me how the private initiative comes in and where the private initiative for the Greek trains is. Finally, I would like to ask whether the Italian and French public are operating in terms of the private market. Why can't you do something like that? In fact, do you think you can't do that, which you think you're a left-wing government? How do the Italians do it? You can't make it, where are the left government, the first time left? I would ask you another question: is the same thing going to happen in the other negotiations that you intend to do about other demilitarizations? Because from the outset, if you remember - I remember it very well - you said the PPA and the airports and your permanent incubation was "validation and not sale". The first one left, the sale stayed. I remember that very well. I would like to ask you: do you consider the contract to be used or sold? I think she's a salesman. The EUR 45 million was a clean sale! Selling because you unconditionally resigned to the so-called investor. It was a clean sale. You were in a battle, and you surrendered unconditionally. In any case, the subject of today's bill is the ratification of the European directive, which had been given since 2012, and which you have been bringing it as an emergency - an urgency, crucify him! - because we sold out everything we had, and we didn't have one, and we have to vote on it. So our country must have a change in its attitude. We need immediately and without any further delay private investment and business to bring about another rationale and other business practices. In Greece of 2016 we must strive to correct the bad texts. It is clear that the first step must be taken by privatisation. The Centro Association has always been and is in favour of this. But I would like to remind you of something: OSCE and TRAINOSE later - from what I remember - for forty years with the previous governments, and the New Democracy and PASOK, it was nothing but a Corban who made appointments. It was the client state. Appoint. He didn't do anything but appoint, always appoint. The client state simply gave positions to have its voters. Debt was growing all the time. Now you continue to enjoy yourself. After giving the Italians land and water, you come to write off them and debts, to charge the public and the poor Greek people to pay these debts. What can I tell you? Left government! But at this point in time, we have a unique opportunity to maybe get on the right track. We'll have to make right moves. At least, since we have more to privatize, we should not sell them out. You guys are running now, if you have a little mind, at least the things we're left with, the rest of you don't get rid of them. To be a good privatization. Historical responsibility is enormous for all of us. We must respond to that responsibility. We must stand up to the circumstances for the sake of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Constantine has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are about to work on today puts an end to a number of obsolete provisions, which were not in any way in line with national legislation and the Community directive 2012/34. The creation of a European single rail area framework is expected to have a positive impact on the functioning and structure of the national railway sector. The direct objectives of this Legislation are as follows: To simplify the concept of legislation that was blocked, to eliminate existing distortions, to remove obsolete provisions, to clarify and modernise provisions of legislation. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the expectations of the draft law concern ensuring transparent and sustainable infrastructure funding, ensuring effective competition on the railway market on equal terms, strengthening regulatory supervision aimed at complying with common rules. The reform approach of the draft law will give impetus to increasing the share of rail transport in the transport market. The obligation to keep separate accounts, on the one hand, for freight transport activities and, on the other, for passenger transport, clears the landscape with public funds, as it is prohibited to carry them from one activity to another. Furthermore, it is possible to monitor the use of revenue from infrastructure charges and surpluses from other commercial activities. The development of new services and the recruitment of new operators is expected to be a possible objective, taking account of the Member States' obligation to make public a five-year strategic development of a railway infrastructure with clear expectations and objectives and not in the air, as has been done so far. I would not like to bore you with the details of the bill that we all know about. I would like to dwell on the well-known "pads" of journalism that speak of a sales of "TRAINOSE". First of all, I would like to make a comment. We have confused the 'TRAINOSE' with the railway infrastructure belonging to the OSE. These are two separate pieces. We're talking about a public-interest transport company and nothing more. After all, the transport monopoly has been abolished for years now and we know that very well. If we did not proceed with the closure of the agreement, the Commission would call for EUR 750 million of illegal State aid. We all know, gentlemen, what this means: Lukeetto. Have we wondered why our country is the last in Europe in infrastructure? Have they wondered why the Greek State, as an employer, did nothing and the workers, at the same time, whistled indifferently in their organization's apparent bankruptcy by selling a trade union without substance? We want a practical syndicate. Because we are all in this place, we know very well that for decades the TECs have been the great bazaar of political power towards votes. We weren't in power. A kitten acquainted with the opposition parties, the sky manna called state grant, was the only concept that now makes us the bill, heavy account! An illegal privilege of public bodies, which divided the free worker and the civil servant. Right now, we have two camps in which people work in public and who are free professionals. It can really - may, I repeat - the price of 'TRAINOSE', to tell the truths too, be small. However, we also need to consider the burden of the debts being borne, and the new investments they need, so that they can bear on it in a truly united Europe of high requirements. Because, as I told you, in Greece we are very far behind. As far as the employees of the company are concerned, let them consider the positive impact that comes from the rescue of the company, since they care so much about securing their positions. The skilled and the workers will remain, they have nothing to fear. The mansioners, however, will go home where they have to go! We all know what trade means and what political thought means to keep their positions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u92	So do we. The Committee's parliamentary representative, Mr Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u93	He says, "Nothing I am tempted." Isn't that what he says? But I'm going to be tempted. Because the one who came out of the Step, as they say in the cleansing house, has now told us how positive an impact and how terrible things will be for the implementation of the European Union directive. I therefore read: 'This directive - dated 3-7-2012 - has serious consequences for the public interest, transport safety and passenger rights. It is written with the dominant neoliberal logic and makes profit a priority, forgetting that it is the states that have financed all existing infrastructures. It promotes the further, almost compulsory, for all the Member States, liberalisation of the railway sector and further separation of the services of operation and maintenance. The concept of an integrated and secure transport system is thus fragmented and the logic and practices of subcontracting are strengthened, thereby undermining the rights of workers, passengers and existing European security measures." That's not what the JRC said. It is the position of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group on this directive. So we ask this: When were you telling the truth, then or now? You have raised the question of workers from a reactionary point of view, not that there are no such phenomena. There are phenomena. We were the only ones to fight against these phenomena over the past few years. But tell us, really! You don't have your God! Two years ago you were saying this and coming here today and you're pulling an anthem about what you complained about at the time! We waited and said you fooled the world. So now, to get into the realm - it is not a personal matter, it is a general matter - it is time for the truth. In particular, when we discuss European directives, then even the fig sheet falls and every good faith can judge in this House that there are two policies. The parties may be eight, but the policies are two. When European directives come, then, everyone who is with the European Union and with the capitalist development path - because they are going to be packed - you agree. Who's the fight? The argument is who will best implement these policies. Who do these European Union policies really serve? I'll say below. Does they serve the interests of the peoples or the interests of capital? I'm guessing you don't even have to answer because it's self-evident. So what should the people and those who see us be judged? Those who agree with this way of development, that is to say, capitalism, and those who agree with the accession of the country to the European Union and the residence and see it as the saints of the saints, are obliged - regardless of what they say - to apply the same policy, the same strategy, regardless of the individual differences. It has also been shown by evolution itself, especially in recent years, that any mixture of the people is paying the bride and the capital is winning with these policies. That's why we're saying the battles are actually individual, fake. What you're all fighting for here is who better manages the interests of capital, because the capitalist development path is serving. These, of course, are inconsistent with the interests of the workers, and this is reflected in all areas. So why are we talking about all this? There are several versions. Let's take the railways. When was the rail sector developed and developed? The railway sector has also been developed on the basis of the development of the economy - and the needs that existed, of course - and there have been massive Statements. Since they were capitalist states, why did they become mass-stated? The capital could not invest in areas from which it would be profitable in the long term. These sectors were the sectors of infrastructure, as was done in energy and in a number of other sectors, especially after World War II. That is why the Greek people and all the peoples with their blood have undertaken to build these state-owned businesses, of course, in capitalism, as the OSCE in Greece and other countries was. Who did they work for, though? The Greek people built the infrastructure. Who were they benefiting? Did they have cheap tickets or quality services, etc.Huh? Oh, no. Basically, monopolistic groups were benefiting, in other words also from transport costs which were double, but also from construction costs. Who was making the wagons? Didn't SIEMENS make them here, with the huge scandals? I don't want to open this kind of thing, because I don't have time. Industry and a number of service sectors, etc., won. The Greek people financed these huge infrastructures, like other peoples, and won nothing. They were won by the large monopolist groups. But over the last few decades this has changed and we have been across the other side. So what I want to say is that both in the state sector and in the public transport sector and others, the capital is good and not the people themselves, because it works in its own interests. That's how the directive works, and I'll prove it later. So why has this changed over the last decades? It has, firstly, changed because these infrastructures have been completed and, secondly, because there are overcompensated funds to be invested in a profit. So we went through the crash - one would say - of state monopolies in all these areas and the quick passage to privatizations, in fact, with a blueprint - and people have to judge it - so that they can invest and ensure a quick and direct profit for overcompensated funds and monopolistic groups. The situation that we are experiencing today - I raise it because Mr Zuraris said so before - is not the result of a crisis. The European Union's policy, which ensures these interests, applies from its existence. In particular, however, it starts in the 1990s. Is it a design that says what? That this sector needs to be fully liberalised, that a single rail market should be created so that monopolistic groups can quickly invest and win. The plan has been progressively advanced. Technically, economically, I would say, with the break-up of the single character, that infrastructure from transport is separate, and at the end comes the removal of all the protective measures that exist in each state, so that there can be this single area. The restructuring of the OSE began in 1997. What's the bill doing? In what direction does it move and who serves? Don't drive us crazy in here! I read you what you were saying. That's right. That's for it. Do not drive us crazy and tell us that you are making all this restructuring to have a good rail network, a cheap ticket, covering people's needs and not to serve the interests of monopolistic groups, particularly with the developments that we have and which the country objectively is a gateway to Europe. So who's gonna win, the worker? Let's start with the workers in the new companies. What are they gonna get? They'll get 700 euros, 500, 200, 100 euros. Everything they take to the other companies. That's all they'll get. So they don't win. What will the Greek people do? Will it win by the so-called 'competition'? Well, where do you live? Here, I have the figures here: Britain between 1997 and 2009 increased the ticket by 20% from privatisation. Germany: In the same period 15%. The Netherlands: Over 10%. The so-called 'competition' and the'market freedom' you say are'monkey'. Finally, the losers are the workers. That's why there's evidence. There are also telecommunications in all sectors. So who does this liberalisation policy benefit? Of course she's drunk and scientific. They're moving on with a plan. We do not underestimate capitalism or their design. They're barely planning in the long term. That's how they went piece and now comes scanning. And you come today to tell us that, in implementing this directive, there will be miracles in Greece in the railway sector. And if the railroads in Greece didn't develop, it's not because of mobism, etc. These are superficial things. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] Mr President, I shall also take my dentistry. I won't talk again. This is due to the fact that Greece is a small economy, has a small manufacturing industry, at the time it was isolated from European countries, and it was also a choice of Greece's urban class for road transport, as is generally the case. But I don't have time to expand. It is unacceptable that such serious issues in which the Greek people can understand and in depth what is happening, you bring them under urgent procedure and we do not have time to place ourselves. That is why the railroads did not develop. They made choices not of mass transport, private, because the companies had profits, for a number of such reasons, because there was a different geopolitical situation. So now what do we have? It keeps the state's high-cost infrastructures and gives private transport companies the profit-driven work. The Greek people will pay to finance the infrastructure. You'll get fees. Aren't you taking? Easy! Slow down, the ends you get! It'll be a trace. And what else? The state budget, namely the Greek people, the taxpayer, the projects and the changes, the improvements made throughout the rail network, will be financed. What for? In order to make it easier for companies' products to be transferred and to make more profits. And don't tell us now - those are not done, I don't think that serious people can believe these things - that in the full sovereignty of the capitalist path to develop capital and within the European Union that gives you orders and executions and you can't do any differently - when you are with the European Union - that we will have all of what you are claiming. Debt: Give her the debt. I'll get into your senses. If one goes and buys it, buy it in debt, redeem it and make its profits. Why, who's gonna pay his debts? Again, the Greek people. How they were created is a great debate and we can do it, as long as we have time. Yeah, but, he says we'll have the regulator. But that's - Mr. Maniotis is missing - for laughter. So we ask: what exactly will the regulator do? It will check whether this directive and this policy are being implemented. Isn't that what he's gonna do? Who is this directive serving? Don't tell us again. This policy of privatization, market liberalisation, etc. serves all this policy of privatization.Huh? The workers? We have the reality in front of us. So this about independent authorities is fairy tales. We therefore call for a philosophical policy. That is why he said that there are two policies. What Chrysayites used to say before is laughing. When you are inside the European Union and in favour of the European Union, you cannot do any of this, which makes people laugh at how they can do it. There's nothing you can do. They are also in favour of the European Union and of entrepreneurship, and indeed provokingly. Philolic policy, therefore, now within the European Union and with capital in power, is not there. This was not achieved by anyone, particularly, today that capitalism has historically bankrupt as a social system. And whoever claims the opposite should put his mind down, because he cannot, by such a development of technology and progress, cover the needs of people, but rather sends them to hell. And this is his historic bankruptcy, his end, regardless of whether the people have not understood it, to overthrow it. So it doesn't exist. You'll do the same thing the rest of us do. That's what you do, and we'd warned about it. And yes to the European Union again, it does not exist. Is there another way? Sure. The road that is mature objectively and scientifically. Society has been developed so that it can go on another path of development. So, to do this, people's property and transport - as a whole - needs socialization - and central planning. Can you make a central design of capitalism? After he's determined by the monopolies. They're the ones who determine. A central planning, therefore, which will have a single transport operator as a whole - on land, air and sea, to say quickly - and will be linked to the rest of the economy in order to meet the needs in key areas. And we can cover them. There is a high level of know-how. And wagons and trains, and everything, we could build, but under such a system: workers' control on the basis of the development of the economy based on the people's needs. And finally, let me say one more thing. Because things have been heard about workers' strikes, we are not the ones who will determine the forms of workers' struggles as a whole, nor do we always agree with these forms they choose. But what do you want, Mr. River? Because I heard Spyros Danellis say: So, what will the workers do? Not to say anything heavy. Will your hands lift up? When are they going to strike to pressure? How will they react? If they don't strike in peak times, they don't push. That's essential.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u94	Secondary is too, Mr. Palphie. And there's no tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u95	I'm done. I am not talking about voting against the bill. We simply call on the people not to get caught in this type of confrontation - everyone agrees in this line - to unite, to elect forces in their associations that are consistently struggling, to help us, to support the JRC, to counter what is coming in the railway sector, but also in general for the people, and to pave the way for another authority - we believe that they are mature objective - which will put a man in the centre rather than capitalist centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Screkas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. It is of great interest, ladies and gentlemen, that the Government brings in and incorporates a Community directive into Greek law by urgent procedure. And the Minister tried, during the meetings of the committee, to enjoy the impressions, saying that the urgency of today's proceedings is not at all related to the privatisation process of the "TRAINOSE". However, it is a great deal clear from today's debate, ladies and gentlemen, that the urgency is precisely about privatization of TRAINOSE. The substance is found in Article 9 and not in the rest of the text. If you want to talk about the directive, it is enough to say that this is a directive that should have come and been incorporated since the summer of 2015. So it's coming over a year's delay. In fact, preparation for the transposition of the directive was made by the previous government and not by your own government, as was heard here in Parliament. All initiatives, ladies and gentlemen, which were promoted for the railway at the time, 2012-2014, were in the spirit of modernising the railway and strengthening it. The effort was and is that Greece should acquire a modern functional, free of the burdens of the past, rail, in order to attract a greater market share and provide better services to Greek citizens, and not just Greek citizens. Indeed, in 2012-2014, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has been done. To note some successes that have contributed to the growth of the economic sizes of TRAINOSE: Firstly, the concession and use of the port of Piraeus was supported by 'COSCO'. When the current government ministers, and then SYRIZA and ANEL executives, committed themselves to cancelling the concession, the government then made painful efforts to restructure TRAINOSE, which led to business deals with 'COSCO' and the other, the American, giant, the 'HEWLETT-PACKARD'. TRAINOSE, ladies and gentlemen, in 2014, had profitability after years of damage, many and great damages, which burdened Greek citizens. In 2014, however, this had changed, and its privatisation would have been the next station. The estimated revenue then I would remind you that it was EUR 300 million, which has been heard many times in this Chamber. Today, privatisation is being done and TRAINOSE is being sold for just 45m euros. We are in favour of making use of the public property that will bring money to the place and to Greece, which will create jobs, jobs, and bring growth. But what was SYRIZA's reaction to this plan then? Then SYRIZA cried out, cried out the ANELs and talked about "shopping". When the estimated price was EUR 300 million, Mr Stathakis denounced the then government for a provocatively low price. I read what Mr Stathakis said at the time: 'TRAINOSE' is now a profitable business. Mr Stathakis also said: 'The planned privatisation is being promoted at the provocatively low price of EUR 300 million'. What is Mr Stathakis saying today, when TRAINOSE is sold for EUR 45 million and with State subsidies of EUR 220 million for the next four years? What did it mean, ladies and gentlemen, by SYRIZA and ANEL? What was he intervening, Minister? What happened to the company in two years has been deceived so much? Why, on the other hand, does the government, rather than selling, prove to be a government of depreciation and locks? I will explain very briefly, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened, because the figures are relentless: TRAINOSE in 2014 had a turnover of EUR 80 million. In 2015, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government took over - this progressive government! -, it presented EUR 68.7 million turnover. We're talking about a 12% reduction. TRAINOSE’s revenues from the goods of 2014 were EUR 18 million. In 2015, as soon as the government of hope took over, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the proceeds from the goods were only EUR 14 million. We are talking about 22% reduction in the revenues of TRAINOSE from the goods. What was that for? It was because for over a month, the refugees - immigrants - had occupied the Iwardian railway line. And then the government watched vaguely on it, did nothing. Like he does nothing today that some amazing guys - who nobody knows where their wrist is from - destroy the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, destroy the public property of the Greek people. Here again, the government is doing nothing. The undisturbed vine has become Greece and immunity grows in this country with this government. What did the government do in 2015 and 2016 for the maintenance of the railway and infrastructure? What did he do to safeguard a high price for TRAINOSE? Nothing. And unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, with the outcome of this privatisation of TRAINOSE, it is a fact that this alliance of SYRIZA cheating - ANEL is, unfortunately, damaging the place. The alleged recovery resulted in the sale of TRAINOSE for only EUR 45 million, when two years ago the valuation was EUR 300 million. This is the depreciation of the 'TRAINOSE' from the unresolved management of the current government, but it is not the only one. Another example of this Ministry: fixed transport, STASS. Profitability in 2013 and 2014 from the previous government after years of losses. Damages in 2015 with this government of hope and progress in stable transport. And the state budget will be imposed this year - for the first time after three years - and the Greek citizens with a half and a half euros to cover this hole. Another example is PPC, the country's largest public enterprise. It's reached point zero. The unrealistic balances are close to 3 billion euros. Her payoff's on the tartars. And then there are other problems. The people, ladies and gentlemen, now understand that the government of hope has become the government of desperation, locks and poverty. And this has to be over quickly and it'll be over quickly. The people are now asking for a roll-over to stop the country being damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u98	Except you're not well informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u99	Thank you. Mrs. Tyloridou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is understandable that the creation of a common understanding of the design of the railway system in the European area, which will take into account the specificities of the national countries and aim at exploiting their advantages for the whole of Europe, is of particular strategic importance. In particular, in a complex geopolitical environment, it requires that in the transport sector there should be cooperation between European countries and that joint management be carried out, that this cooperation should be exploited so that we have the greatest possible benefit from the safe and rapid transport of passengers and goods. It is of great value to address the fragmentation of the European rail network and to maximise efficiency, so that there is also bureaucratic issues and the reliability of services in healthy conditions of competition, with respect for workers and respect for the consumer. This can be done by harmonising this directive we are debating today, as it is necessary to harmonise our own legislation, in order to modernise infrastructure and resources, to ensure adequate funding, to simplify legislation, to strengthen regulatory supervision and to help introduce new railway undertakings that respect the conditions of healthy entrepreneurship. The law tabled today has already come into open consultation, and despite the fact that since 2012 Greek legislation should be harmonised with this European directive, this has not been the case, as the drafting of the strategic plan should already be ready from April 2014. In the last year, we have speeded up all the procedures necessary to get the time lost, which you are accusing us of. And you're saying today that we're bringing this bill as an emergency. Indeed, we are bringing this bill as urgent, because the time that this law had to come for its implementation has been wasted by endless regressions and by putting serious issues, such as this directive and this law, on the bells. I am going to dwell on two points which have been criticised in this House. One point says, from the point of view of counter-population, that Europe is fortunately coming to stress to our own government the respect we must have in the regulatory authorities. And here, of course, you're implying the National Broadcasting Council and you're abducing us for something that is yours exclusively responsible for. We all remember who prevented the operation of the National Broadcasting Council with a single objective: not to give television licences and to continue the lawlessness of the last twenty-five years in the broadcasting landscape. I shall also refer to the regulation of debts and to Article 9, which brings together the arrows of your criticism. The regulation of debts made through this bill relates to debts for the period 2007 to 2011, debts created by weaknesses in the management of your own governments. The way is to deal with the approval by the Directorate-General for Competition, as was done in 2011 and in accordance with the provisions of the Law. 3891/2010. Let us also say that others are the railway infrastructure manager and others are the railway undertaking. I mention this because Article 8 makes it clear that the revenue of the infrastructure manager will balance infrastructure costs. And because many hear about the price of "TRAINOSE", to remind the Greek people of the ten-year failure and overcompensation, the barren parallel competitions and the depreciation in general of state-owned enterprises, which obviously did not come from forty years of government SYRIZA. 'Cause you're about to convince us that we've been ruling these forty years. Your own inertia, however, and ineffectiveness led to the threat of the lock for the company. If the agreement had not been closed by the end of the year, the Commission had made it clear that it would have asked for the unlawful aid of EUR 750 million to be recovered. And you realise what this railway undertaking, for both workers and the consumer, would mean. Rail communication contributes in particular to this critical geopolitical environment that is crucial to the progress and development of trade, the removal of the regions' exclusion, the better organisation of local economies and the promotion and growth of our productive reconstruction. This is an opportunity, especially by exploiting the ports and airports of the country, to get a modern rail network today and to make our country a transit centre which will play a crucial role at European level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u101	So do we. Mr Kedicoglou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. The first words which come to me, ladies and gentlemen, are 'good late, but never before' and I am not talking about the delay - at the last moment, literally - in adopting the Community directive, but about the fact that the prospect of obtaining modern competitive railways is finally being opened up. Greek railways are a typical example of our failed economic model, the model of state-owned capitalism. What has resulted, apart from having another bankrupt state-owned company that demonstrates once again how bad a bad businessman the state is? We had a heavier consequences. A key transport sector was effectively neutralized in Greece. 1% of freight transport is carried by rail. The rest of Europe is 25% to 30%. This has created distortions that have made our transport more expensive in other sectors. How many years have they been lost? How much money was lost? We won't know that, but it's still undetermined. Another originality. It's a big debt, though. Of course, we have given it for for forty-five million, because the government has now decided to do so at the last minute on the basis of the consequences of a fine. I'd say we're not already paying someone to get the railroads. You have an allergy to reforms, you have an allergy to privatisation. You're not surprised, Minister. We have a lot of examples. The Minister of Shipping, Mr. Dritsas, almost undermined the Prime Minister's trip to China with his well-known relics and certainly managed to limit expectations. But you didn't learn from it. Then Mr Skourletis also came to question a privatization that had been properly achieved at a very good price and I am talking about the DESFA. Now I am curious to see, Minister, what you will think in this case. I already have a suspicion with the regulator - say suspiciously - that you will put your own people on and that does not involve any independence and any objectivity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u103	And yours has.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u104	You should be clearer. You will hear from other speakers that this is not a proper independent regulatory authority. It doesn't form that way. What you do not understand is that time is money and you are being delayed. Government ministers on reforms remind me of team players who pretend to be injured and who fall on the stadium to delay them. But they don't understand that the team loses and that they should run to score and they fall down and delay. It tells you, too, that the Bureau of the Parliament's Budget Office must 'run' the reforms and express serious doubts as to how far you can do that. She's telling you more, of course. You must have other priorities. Taxes don't come out. There's got to be cutbacks. But not. You insist on the wrong priorities. We have heard today that you want to bring the electoral law back, the simple analogue, through constitutional revision. You insist after the fiasco you had yesterday. You are insisting on the creation of uncertainty, on the prospect of instability, at the very time when the country must establish confidence, to demonstrate stability in order to allow growth to come. Of course, we know the Prime Minister's preferences. "Great turbulence, wonderful situation," he said recently. "On the bulb the wolf is happy," says our people and we know what happens to the herd, society in this case. However, if Mr Tsipras has a weakness in the words 'great tire', I would remind him of another saying that Mao said: 'Let all flowers blossom.' I am referring to another priority of the government, the attempt to cycl the television landscape, where the government wants its whole "magaz", the whole bouquet with its own flowers. The government's priorities fall exclusively within the framework of its institutional structure. It destroys the independent authorities, degrades Parliament, is increasingly disproportionate to its popularity. In particular, however, for the control of the media by the government, I would like to say one final argument, if you will understand. If the Minister of State has absolute control, then every government will shape the television scene in its own interests, effectively abolishing the independence and objectivity of the media, unless you don't care about all of this because you think you will always have power. I do not want to believe that you are so arrogant, but unfortunately you are making reasonable suspicions and that is why you must leave as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u105	However, the black in the ERT as you will not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u106	Mr Famele, this decision had been passed by the House, confirmed by the Council of State. The 'black' you're trying to shoot in all the media is much worse. And the public television has been all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u107	We don't forget what you did. The Greek people don't forget either. Because he wants courage to change reality because it suits you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Famelle, it takes courage to interrupt the speaker, but we're used to you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u109	You're done, Mr. Kedicoglou!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u110	Okay. Your days are counted!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u111	The Greek people have interrupted you, Mr. Kedicoglou!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u112	Mr Karastassis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, Minister, Mrs Scrivener, ladies and gentlemen, I think we should give an answer to the objections raised by both New Democracy and PASOK. The professionals accused us of amateurism! The professionalism of the New Democracy and PASOK! One and a half million unemployed! Where? From the private sector that supports him! Thousands waited to get pensions, waited to get one. And some people couldn't take funeral expenses. It is well known and it is written. From there on, amateurism about how they handled the fate of the Greek people and led it to poverty. They led thousands of scientists abroad, forcing them to emigrate. And what did they ask us yesterday? They say that we now have to mock them to get them to vote in Greece, to be able to vote in the simple analogue place. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of PASOK, are you not aware that the world did not leave PASOK, but the PASOK leadership left the people? When you realize that, I think it is a matter that needs to be analysed to see exactly what the course of PASOK has done all this time and finally remained the tail of the New Democracy, as it seemed yesterday, decommissioning positions on the simple analogue which we had been presented with some time ago. As far as Potami is concerned, because it has taken too much of the matter, it is in a worse state than PASOK when the tail of the New Democracy is now. They've been fully identified with the New Democracy right now. Colleagues, I think we should talk about the railroads. Let's go see what's going on with this rail network in Greece. Is there another country in Europe that does not have a high-speed rail, namely electricity? I think Albania doesn't. All this time, those who were professionals of politics who used and operated huge amounts, can it be that in 2016 they have not yet handed over Patras - Athens - Thessaloniki by electricity? Let's go to another area, PATHE. Is it possible that it has not yet been given when it has been built since 1980? I do not think you should be feeling too proud and criticising us at the moment about what is going on. I'm going to tell you a very simple example. You started making a twin tunnel in 1994 in Calli road, from nine kilometers to each tunnel. Since 1994 there have been three Community support frameworks. And the new one, because it can't enter fourth anymore, we're trying to find a way to join a new program to complete. This piece cost about 1.8 billion euros and is still not operational. I don't think you're feeling too proud of all this operation over the years in how you've been running the projects. I wanted to say to Mr Pafile that we are making an effort to develop the railroad. Our effort is very important. We understand the problems that exist. However, it is not possible for a country not to support combined transport, namely roads, rails, seas and freight centres. It is not possible, in other words, at this moment that we cannot go to a new development model that will give the country prospects. Of course, you decided that the productive model so far was that of lending. In fact, with borrowing you have managed to share money in the world, you have paid it, you have paid the country, and here are the results. I don't believe this whole situation is the fault of SYRIZA. Soon you'll tell us that SYRIZA must be responsible for the preparatic sin. Ladies and gentlemen, to return to today's bill on the creation of the single European railway area, I would like to say: I think that by Directive 2012/34/EU we are trying to create a single European railway area. The central objective is to simplify, clarify and modernise the institutional framework for rail transport in the European Union by creating a single and coherent text that effectively replaces and delivers the directives previously adopted. At the same time, it introduces substantial additions and improvements where necessary. In particular, experience of the rail sector in the European Union so far shows that the development of the rail transport sector and its ability to compete successfully with other modes of transport is hampered by serious problems relating to insufficient financing and charging for the infrastructure, with constant barriers to competition and lack of appropriate regulatory supervision. We have therefore had a structural fragmentation of the European rail system and, above all, a non- uniform handling of key issues, and therefore an obstacle to the creation of this single European railway area. Therefore, apart from the country's obligation to comply with Community law, they are the real and established needs of the area which dictate that the measures of this directive should be implemented properly. Of course - and this is the effort of the Ministry responsible - these measures are adapted to the specificities of the national sector and are part of a comprehensive strategy to promote the effective and sustainable development of railway infrastructure and the development of a railway market that consolidates healthy competition by establishing conditions for transparent access and fair operation of structures, the removal of administrative and technical barriers and the safeguarding of conditions of equal treatment against competitive modes of transport. The ultimate objective is to strengthen the share of rail transport in the transport market in general. It is not possible at the moment for rail transport to be less than 3% - it is close to 2% of transport - and for passenger transport not to exceed 3%. I do not think we are too proud of all the political parties in this country. It must be said at this point that the bill we are discussing incorporates assessed positions of the railway sector operators after the relevant consultation has been carried out. It should also be noted that an open consultation was held in the same context. In the bill, I think two sections are judged to be very important. This is about the functioning of the railway market, the management of the railway infrastructure, what is from the rail, from the rail, under the OSE and it is public - we have to say this and people understand it - and from there on, the railway transport activities of enterprises as is in this case in the OSE. We know with TRAINOSE what happened. We took her in 2013 and put her in the TIAD to sell her. That's well known. I don't think you're now asking us for the change because this auction took place, with any result. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the need for the country to move directly into a direction of railway planning, reconstruction and development is more than urgent, given that rail transport is a very important factor in social prosperity, in the organisation of transport and in the promotion of economic development. The current bad situation has been shaped in a number of decades. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me two, three more minutes because I am not going to speak. I remember how many openings so many Prime Ministers, so many Secretary-General, have made in PATHE and railways, with applied, policies, dominated by the method of deinvesting in the railways as compared to the motorways, but also with many other reasons. The result of this policy was the development of road transport and private interests at the expense of the railways, the major problems and the many deadlocks for society as a whole. A characteristic of this chronic process is traffic problems in cities and in large suburban arteries. The cloud of pollution in urban areas and the greenhouse effect with bioclimatic changes throughout our planet have as main causes road transport and industry. Let us therefore make it clear that the aim of the directive is not to reorganise railway undertakings that manage transport and infrastructure, as well as clear relations between them to be sold to individuals, but to improve the competitive position of the railway as compared with road and other means of transport. The ultimate objective is to strengthen the share of rail transport in the transport market, because rail is also worth taking a leading position in transport and transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr. Ioannis Sarakiotis, from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u115	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today, you are bringing to the vote in urgent procedure the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks on the harmonisation of our national legislation with Directive 2012/34 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on the establishment of a single European railway area. The harmonisation of Greek legislation with the Community directive provided for is our obligation under Community law, but at the same time it also reflects the direction in which the intentions of this government are being brought into order in accordance with the European example of legislating according to European standards of the rail market and in the field of domestic rail transport, which most of us in this Chamber will agree had been left to his fate in the past decades, with sole responsibility, of course, for this depreciation, of the policies proposed and implemented by the previous governments. Furthermore, the management and operation of the country's railway infrastructure and transport infrastructure will be governed by clear and uniform rules at Community level which will favour and promote healthy competition, set out uniform rules ensuring fully transparent competitive procedures and conditions and rules that are capable of ensuring such transparency in the management and operation of the country's railway networks, excluding, as far as possible, conflicts of interest between the operator of the OIE infrastructure and the individual railway undertakings, and effectively opening up the way for the many destabilised railway transport sector to recover a significant share in the market for freight and passenger transport by allowing, together with the strengthening of competition at European level, and its economically sustainable development at domestic level. The regulatory framework for contracts of law and on objective criteria for authorised rail transport undertakings with the OSE Infrastructure Manager shall be clarified so as to minimise the margins for opaque awards from now on. Under the provisions of the Community directive, which are incorporated into Greek law, rail transport law is being modernised by clarifying certain provisions and repealing other archaics. Legislation also simplifys, eliminates existing overlap of provisions, ensures adequate, transparent and sustainable financing of railway infrastructure. It promotes transparency in the railway market in order to ensure effective competition and avoid distortions. Regulatory oversight shall be strengthened by strengthening independence and the identification and clarification of the responsibilities of the Regulatory Authority for Railways. The ultimate objective of fully harmonising the legislation of the Member States with this Community directive of 2012 is to strengthen the share of rail transport in the transport market, which is an urgent need primarily for the Greek transport market, where the share of rail against other transport remains tragicly low and, of course, very much below the corresponding European average. The package of regulations introduced by the draft legislation we are debating today sets out the additional conditions required and create a legislative environment for the necessary, as well as imperative, resolution of the mismanagement practices of decades of public capital mismanagement called OSE and the revitalisation of the railway industry in general. The main thematic sections of the bill, as developed in detail by his rapporteur and by other speakers, include the following: First, general provisions. Secondly, the development of the Union's railways. Thirdly, the licensing of railway undertakings. Fourthly, a charge for the use of railway infrastructure and the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and, fifthly, final provisions. Allow me, for reasons of time-sharing, to dwell on some specific articles, what I consider to be particularly important, for example, in Article 35. With the creation of a performance system within the infrastructure charging system, incentives are provided to railway undertakings and to the infrastructure manager OSE to improve the performance of the rail network, which will contribute to the improvement and overall upgrading of the railway services provided. Further - something that I note as, perhaps, of the most important arrangements introduced by the bill under discussion - are the provisions of Articles 37 to 54, which regulates issues relating to the functioning of the regulatory body, which defines the Regulatory Authority for Railways as the regulatory body for the railway sector, highlighting its self-evident, independent and legally distinct, at organisational, operational, hierarchical and decision-making level in relation to any other public or private body or state authority. The method of staffing and managing the regulatory body shall guarantee in all respects its independence. The members of the regulatory body shall act independently of the market interests of the railway industry and therefore do not have any interest or business relationships with any of the regulated undertakings. The functions of the regulatory body shall be clearly defined and its independent nature in the operational standards of other regulatory authorities shall be further clarified. This ensures the application of objective, uniform rules of equal distance to all. The regulatory body shall ensure that fees imposed by the infrastructure manager do not discriminate. Negotiations between applicants and infrastructure manager on the level of infrastructure charges shall be allowed only if they are carried out under the supervision of the regulatory body. The decision of the PPA is binding on all parties that cover and are not subject to the control of another administrative authority. Decisions taken by the regulatory body shall be subject to the means provided for in the applicable law of law. Finally, the RAS is allowed to draw conclusions on State aid issues, with the stated reservations. In conclusion, I would like to stress once again that we are discussing harmonisation of our law with a European directive which only has a positive impact on the existing legislative framework for Greek rail transport. I think it will gradually contribute to economic recovery, regeneration of the country's rail network, increasing its competitiveness in general and, of course, to the significant qualitative upgrading of the rail transport services provided. For all these reasons, it must be voted on by the overwhelming majority of colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague Mrs Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA lately. Here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot resist the temptation not to applaud Mr Kedicoglou's crisis of sincerity just before he accepted the responsibilities of his own government, but also the previous ones for the mismanagement and the predicament he made on the railway network in the country, but also the bankrupt political and economic system, which he has served for so many years. I also note for Mr Kedicoglou that I am very pleased that he left early and allowed some flowers to bloom, since he did not succeed in tearing everything out. That is why we are now called upon to orchestrate first and then sow new seeds. So the trains they left. This is how I would characterize the situation in Greece if someone asked me to. A state of complete depreciation and indifference on the railroad. Infrastructures which have not only been designed as a basis for development, movement and entrepreneurship, but also for many stakeholders, constituted an area of special enrichment. You know what I mean. It's also your perception of public space and public property. After all, Mr. Kedicoglou mentioned it before. Games with contractors, massages, stolen materials, excessive wages for counsellors on board the boards, no planning, no improvement, no development prospects, no sector which could, of course, be the basis for safe and economic movement for the public, but also for a cheap and fast-moving infrastructure. Trains. For some romantics it has been left as a memory of their childhood and for many professionals it has stayed as well as demanding a modern, quality and fast railroad. So don't throw crocodile tears to reduce exports, because you have cut off all the bases and infrastructure for the costly transport of products. In Evros in particular - to go to my area - an ideal area for exports, with access to the East and the Balkans market, you have cut off all the rail connections that existed. Projects for exporting enterprises now require difficult equations there. Even the connection of the port to the railroad at Evros is now being planned and launched. I wonder: What progress and development have you been talking about for so many years? What were you planning? What were you doing? I can't understand it. The truck cartels, the CBELs, the road contractors of course had more to offer you than a public railway company. For deforestation of the rail network, turn the mirror on yourself. He'll show you a very beautiful picture! As for the criticism of the co-legislative procedure, you say we're late. Apparently we're late. We're late a year. But I ask: How can you put order in the chaos you have created for so many years in the country? And not only on the rail network, but throughout the country. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law provides for the harmonisation of the national network with Union legislation on rail transport and in particular the recasting of the first railway package. This Directive of the European Parliament on the establishment of a single rail network shall in particular recast the provisions relating to: The development of Community railways, licences for railway undertakings, allocation of the capacity of railway infrastructure and charges for the use of railway infrastructure. It is essentially a strong attempt to create a European market with a high degree of cohesion and it deals with the establishment of rules for the creation of a single European railway area. It is of course worth recognising that the need to unify the transport sector in the Union has now become clear, as a key element in the completion of the internal market, but also in the development of the railway as a vital element in the transport sector's progress. After all, we are in favour of European cooperation and some of us here have fought, without, of course, believing it in practice, as it has been seen. The improvement and effectiveness of the rail network with a view to joining a competitive market compared with roads and so on. transport networks and the resolution of railway undertakings managing transport and infrastructure are the main objectives of this Directive, as mentioned before. We cannot, of course, say that with the prospects presented by this law for the use of railway infrastructure for domestic and international railway, commercial and freight services, it is easier for the whole production economy and the relevant market with the other Member States is opening up, which can make a significant contribution to the development and commercial activities of the country. I personally believe that this directive is the beginning of a series of actions that are to be taken in order to rebuild the rail network in Greece, which I believe is necessary, as the needs, as I said, of both the passenger and freight traffic relate to immediate coverage and satisfaction. I will mention once again, if I may, the importance of rail linking to Evros, my prefecture, which is one of the few prefectures in Greece, which the rail network is crossing across the whole region and across the whole of it. Today, the network of Evros, like the whole of Greece, shows signs of decline and dissolution, not randomly. At least the manned stations and also the recovery works from the catastrophic floods, which have lasted for years, have resulted in serious malfunctions and therefore also in a tragic reduction in the passenger population, who now choose other means of transport. And it was a great blow to our prefecture that international passenger and commercial trains were interrupted by the termination of the railway link between Greece and Bulgaria and Turkey. Some people are responsible, and that's why they'll have to answer for it. Therefore, for us the effort to rebuild the foundations for the smooth and efficient operation of the railway network in the country is of paramount importance. We must make use of our geostrategic position, particularly important, and make the country a transit centre. It's a tough word, not a deed. The rail network, mainly in northern Greece, is top priority for SYRIZA. The electrified railway line has already been announced to strengthen entrepreneurship and facilitate the passenger public. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. On the basis of this draft law, we are given the opportunity to focus on developing a new railway network policy in the country. Besides, trains always open up a positive perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u118	Thank you. Mrs Gara has closed the list of speakers. The Minister has the floor, Mr. Spirtzis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that in the last paragraph of the legislative improvements, 'the wording' is withdrawn as a sign of goodwill. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to confine myself to the draft law. But there have been many issues which cannot be left unanswered. It seems that courtesy is often perceived as weakness and should not be. We understand that last night's simple proportional vote, because it was voted yesterday and by a large majority, hurts a lot. But it hurts more - and I and many others, and the country's progressive world know it very well and let us be hypnotised every day - the tight embrace of specific political spaces with the New Democracy. Finally, it was not just cooperation with Mr Samaras in some governments. With Mr Mitsotakis, this love and alternative progressive proposal still does not need to exist. There is SYRIZA and it certainly does not build such an alternative progressive proposal, as some say, hug it with neoliberalism. That's for sure. A number of party representatives spoke of Idolated. We have quite accidentally there from different sides of the House to talk about Idolathi. But you know that the Greek Government handled and handled one of the most crucial international issues with the country in the eye of the cyclone and the crisis of immigration, ensuring with its attitude the peace, security and stability of the region. We cannot see the subject of the Armed Department. For the railroad, it really is a pity to believe that this policy could be implemented at no cost. The priorities of some people, while all of Europe is facing unprecedented situations, seem to be others and want to see things fragmented, but we all understand very well. Finally, I fully agree with the closure of the speech by my colleague, Mr Maniotis. He is a colleague both as a Member and as an engineer. We can make it. It's not the defeat, the misery, the acceptance of the fatal. This government and the current Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, implements this, in the opposite of the offenses of the Greek people by officials from other countries, who beat Greeks as lazy, incompetent, corrupted, without any response at that time being given at all. I'm going to the draft law. I have to give an answer, as I have given the committee, because we have the procedure we have. I said it yesterday and the committee. First, the 2012 Directive had to be harmonised by 2014. The previous governments didn't do it. In March 2015, we sent the first draft law. But we had a big gap and the big gap was that the relevant body, the Greek Railway Agency, had not expressed any views. The management of the OSE changed in mid-March 2015 and replied in June 2015. In the meantime, we had the warning letter from the European Commission. We had the reasoned opinion. We had responded to them, and obviously the draft law had to be drafted by the CEN as well. If we didn't do what we're doing today, it was very likely that the country's referral. We don't have to be afraid of anything or hide anything. Now, I'm going to the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, the need for the country to move directly into a direction of railway planning, reconstruction and development is more than urgent, given that rail transport is a very important factor in social prosperity, in the organisation of transport and in the promotion of economic development. The current bad situation has been shaped in a number of decades with applied policies with the dominant method of deinvesting in the railways, as well as with the motorways but also with many other causes, such as mismanagement and service of interests within and outside the railway area. As a result of this policy was the development of road transport and private interests at the expense of rail, major problems and many deadlocks in society as a whole. The consequences of rail disinvestment are multi-dimensional and multi-dimensional. They are environmental, economic, competitiveness, spatial planning. I could give you indicative figures on the environmental burden. It is at least 10 times greater than road transport, and the same applies to transport costs per tonne of transported products. You are, of course, aware of the positive consequences in the transport sector of the additional opening up of the Suez Canal. The reduction in transit time has sharply increased freight transport. This brings the Greek ports and the Greek railways to the international planning of combined transport. In addition, our country's geographical position gives us great advantages to be the most important point of combined transport in the Mediterranean. Our aim is not only the goodwill the country gains from transport infrastructure, but the development of high-tech manufacturing and investment, taking advantage of the country's position and the development of combined transport. For these reasons, we need to draw up a national strategic plan, which will give the main weight of transport to rail transport and to modern freight centres. That is the main reason why the government prioritises rail infrastructure and, as you know, fixed tracks, as well as combined transport. My view is that the Greek rail network, apart from the Patras-Athens-Thessaloniki axis, must be completed with Egnatia. This railway infrastructure runs all over northern Greece, allowing us to exploit the linking of the four ports of northern Greece with four vertical axes, namely the connection between Constantinople and Thessaloniki and Piraeus, while at the same time bypassing the Dardanelles and the link between the neighbouring countries and the port of Alexandroupolis and Kavala, the connection to the interior of the Balkans and specifically to Thessaloniki, both with Bulgaria and Romania - is the design that belongs to the trans-European networks - as well as to the traditional route of Thessaloniki - Skopje - Serbia and, finally, the connection between Thessaloniki and the axis of the western Balkans and the Adriatic. These are our priorities and the design that is completed with six major freight centres serving international transport and processing and with smaller centres serving the national production structure. The five freight centres that we speed up their implementation are Triasios - the tender is completed in a few days - the freight centre of Thessaloniki, which completes the precursor work to proceed with the auction contest, followed by the shopping centers of Alexandroupolis, Kavala and Igoumenitsa. An important role is the Thessaloniki freight centre and the freight centre of the Western Peloponnese, which must be located. In order to implement this plan, we must have a clean and modern landscape in rail transport, an institutional framework, infrastructure and operation that will allow for the quality, transparent and sustainable operation of the railway and at the same time its use for passenger transport. First of all, let us inform Parliament in general that this draft law harmonises national legislation with Directive 2004/34 on which - and we have exceeded - a specific date of harmonisation. The previous Directives and previous laws are repealed. And that is why many articles in the old law have been repeated. One of these is Article 9, which talks about deletion of the debts of railway companies. I wonder why they're asking us. They had passed the same provision since 2011. Article 9 gives - and has since been introduced - the possibility of debiting debts from EU State-controlled enterprises for their reassurance. It is not just for the Greek institutions. It was and is a European directive. This is also repeated in this directive. It was not only for Greece, it was for everyone. It has been committed by the country since 2011, by previous governments and by all those mediated, as a condition of viability. The New Democracy Members themselves are saying this as a condition of approval and non-violence of state aid. Let us remind you of the story, however, that the privatisation tender for the 'TRAINOSE' - because you resigned from us - began and failed five times because of conditions of competition. Five times! Obviously, previous governments know much better numbers. Let's not ask them, why hasn't the file been opened? Because they submitted these files to the European Commission. Unless we want to take our eyes off ourselves. I would like to make a further remark. He's really a political courage... [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I will take five minutes to answer everything I have put to you if I may.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u120	All right, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u121	It is, in fact, a political courage, those who created the debts on the railroad, those who fragmented the Greek Railway Agency, to come and ask us for the change. Because we are keeping a fierce attitude to the obligations of the country, which they committed to. The current draft law seeks both the transposition of European legislation and the recasting of provisions of the existing institutional framework, which have hit the railway. If the Secretary-General, Mrs Chrysosvellonis, has been put on the table in an article, I would like to mention the main points we are trying to heal. The first significant change is that it is clearly stated that the OSE is the public infrastructure manager and does not need privatisation. Second significant change is the exclusion of local and regional autonomous passenger transport networks, which allows us to reuse and operate the network of the Peloponnese and the traditional historical tourist lines. Third important change is that there can be public railway undertakings and, of course, the possibility of the OSE participating in them. We do not blame, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the previous governments only because they did not bring the current draft law in time, but because they have had a distortion, as they used to - or rather used to - because I do not see it possible from now on - the old directives distortingly so as to lead to the fragmentation of the OSE and the total sale of the TRAINOSE and the EBRD without being required. That is the point, and I believe that everyone can draw their conclusions on this poor transposition of the earlier directives and the feasibility of them. One thing is certain: the previous directives did not require the fragmentation of the railway or the secession of the ‘TRAINOSE’ and of the EBRD, but the accounting separation of the railway project from the infrastructure manager. I'm saying that to understand how we got to today. Fourthly, a major change is the introduction of the process of strategic and operational planning of the rail system, so that the country does not go as it has been for fifty years in bulk, without compass and without direction. Fifth significant change is the determination of infrastructure usage charges, which are the main source of financing for the OSE. Sixth major change is the institutional framework which also allows the private sector to find resources for the development of railway infrastructure, but separates it from its management. We will not have a repetition of motorways, i.e. any private person involved in the construction of the infrastructure to manage it already. The administrator shall be the public OSE. Finally, with regard to the Regulatory Authority, we all know the hatred that exists over the public sector by the forces that built up an old-fashioned, state-run model that looted the structures of the public, which appointed thousands of ruptured, which smashed resources, structures, the property of the public and built party control mechanisms. And today the same forces, the ones that built this public, come to charge it to us and indeed to a communication rhetoric of reforms. But there is also a terminology in all of this, which has also been seen today at other meetings. You want, ladies and gentlemen of the old governments, to transfer to the new modern parties control mechanisms of the New Democracy and the once PASOK the regulators that you identify with the independent intention. This is a very nice trick: we are decentralising the public and we are continuing to monitor the regulatory authorities in a number of ways. That's what's going on. I would therefore refer you to the last debate on the revision of the Constitution in order to read out the position of former Prime Minister Constantine Mitsotakis and Mr Vangelis Venizelos. It is surprising to abandon us for the supposedly independent functioning of these authorities or to confuse the independent with the regulators. You yourself in the revision of the Constitution sculpted your garments as two different things. And I will refer to this independence of the regulators you call for. Mr. Manatis, I withdrew it as a sign of good will. But I will talk to you about the one you put as President of the RAA in 2011. He is Mr. Tsiamantis Vasilis, a political engineer, member of the OSE at various positions, as a scholar, Head of a maintenance complex, a chief engineer, Head of the New Project Service at the Athens-Thessaloniki, Director of the Research Organisation, Director-General for Development of the OSE, Managing Director of the OSE and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the OSE. This man you put with what you requested will not be able to place. No problem! But you put him! Don't give up on us now! Don't give up on us now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u122	There was the law!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u123	Yes, there was the law, but you hadn't put it inconsistently, as we put it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u124	Was he illegally in?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u125	There was the law on RAS. How did he get in? Did he go to zero? In the void? Secondly, Mr Kedicoglou before speaking - and he has shown the period that he was really Minister with the then Minister who was my counterpart, a respect for the independence of the regulators and I will say it later - said that if you want to put new people, it would not be independent. As far as RA is concerned, her term of office has expired. Mr. Kedicoglou knows that. I mean, if we keep the people that New Democracy put on, it'll be independent, if we put on new ones, it won't be. This is a new neo-colitism. We must keep the ones put in place by the previous governments, so that the authorities can be independent. Yes, sir! I therefore read the practice from the excerpts of the National Telecommunications and Post Committee on the days of Mr Kedicoglou, to see how you respected the independence of the regulators. It says, therefore, that the National Telecommunications and Post Committee in its signed practice: ‘Taking into account the will of the State, as reflected in points 1 and 7 of the relevant letter from the Secretary-General for Telecommunications and Post of the Sub-Meditorate-General (EIB Protocol number 22468/22-5-2013) we do not insist on the expressed view of the Plenary Assembly that two licences for the development of a network of terrestrial broadband national coverage should be issued as a minimum’. Independence to where it's not going! And so the one, the 'DIGEA' and the closure of the ERT! Great independence! You have truly honoured it as spaces very much, especially Mr Kedicoglou who has come here to invoke us. So in the government that appointed this independent authority, the Democratic Integration participated with other party formations at that time. The Prime Minister was Mr. Antonis Samaras. We are now being told about independence from the independent authorities, but we say that we guarantee the independence of the independent authorities and you want dependence from you. That's what we say. And we are saying one more thing: why is the European Commission asking this new directive and why are you asking another independent authority, to which you do not contribute, to making the competitions for the channels? Why does this independent authority not have the power to open tenders, but is it limited to the regulatory role it should have? I'm asking. Why, as the EPCT and as you are asking for channel licences, do you not suggest that the RAS should do the competitions here? Ask for it - I say - so that you are not inconsistent with a regulator in a regulator and we are willing to confuse the regulators with the independent authorities. Otherwise, what I have heard is that the Minister may be dissatisfied or downgrade the independent authorities, but this has already been done by the policies of the previous governments. We don't do it now, and it has to be clean.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u126	Minister, please, finish it up. You've spoken twenty-two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, you are absolutely right and a thousand apologies. To conclude, I think that both the power of the railway and the support of the railway people and the staff of the railway family and the implementation of railway infrastructures and combined transport infrastructures are part of the most important national actions and plans, which both upgrade economic and productively and environmentally in our country. Mr Karamanlis had a self-critic attitude to the responsibilities of the previous governments and he leaves it with a spearhead of national understanding. I conclude by stressing that we appeal to the opposition parties to attempt consensus and cooperation in technical legislation, in the key areas that give added value to the country, in the strategic plan for the country's reconstruction, since we cannot consent to other issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Minister. Mr Katsotis has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u129	Gentlemen, it must be said that capitalist activity in the transport, maritime and land transport sector and in general the logistics chain includes, in addition to the power of logistics in Greece and the process of transiting goods to other destinations. This is the well-known model of Greece as a gateway to entry of goods and energy into the European Union. In this option of the bourgeoisie, all governments are going to contribute to facilitating multi-faceted capitalist development in the transport sector, including the railways, which is the key factor in the creation of the model, which I mentioned above, namely Greece, a transit centre. The policy of privatization of land and state-owned enterprises is not a random option, but a key axis of the capital and European Union strategy to create the new areas of profitability and to unobstructed implementation of the designs of monopolistic groups. Ports, airports, railways, land area, all are allocated for the needs of capitalist development. This is the policy of the European Union and all the parties that serve it. A key aspect of the recovery of business groups is, at the same time, the creation of a friendly business climate, consisting of reducing the price of labour force. This way, gentlemen, you all serve. With passion, you support him. What the people saw yesterday was the game on the street of the deception of the people. You are fighting about who will best serve the design of monopolistic groups and, of course, New Democracy and PASOK today are angry because SYRIZA took the job. What is coming to solve the harmonisation of Greek legislation with the directive of the European Union? Does it come to facilitate the development of railway infrastructure and rail transport to meet the needs of our people? No, it comes - and of course remains - that the directive, in order to remove all the obstacles involved in the concession of rail transport, the 'fille' as a whole. That is what the directive is doing today. It brings this directive to the Member States - and in our country - on how it will manage railway infrastructure, which will, of course, be in the public domain, but the conditions it imposes are to ensure the uninterrupted use by business groups at such a cost, of course, that profitability is always guaranteed. That's what the directive does. It imposes the maintenance, development of the Greek people's money-laundering infrastructure, with the tax-paying effect of the private person, but with the unpaid, because the private person will win through his participation in the so-called PPPs, in order to serve precisely the activity of these railway undertakings. Who will pay and who will win from this policy? Lost will be the workers, but also the railway users. In whatever countries rail transport operates from business groups, tickets and costs in general it has reached the point of view. The parliamentary representative has said enough about how they went up. The safety of the railways themselves is in Nadir, because here the costs are not measured and these costs are not done for safety. The terms of pay and work of the workers have been overturned. There are predominant conditions in the jungle. We have also said about strikes taking place on all the railways throughout Europe that have become private. The government wants to bring in the bill on labour tyres. This is, of course, bound up with the requirement that capital should be used to reduce the labour force as a whole. He wants best practices. We know who they are. If you see what is happening on railroads in Germany, France, Belgium and Italy, you will understand what best practices the government wants to bring here today. There was a debate on the Regulatory Authority for Railways and its independence. But, gentlemen, who are you kidding? Who wants the Railway Regulatory Authority independent from whom? Are there independent authorities? What does the creation of this principle serve? Does it not serve to implement this directive, the framework for the operation of the railways, the facilitation of business groups? A criterion for our attitude and in this draft law are precisely the interests of workers, as well as the people who use railway services, which are very much affected by the directive of the European Union by the law you are bringing today. Of course, we have stressed that the JRC does not support the form that existed to date, because the operation of the railway under the State, with state responsibility, was serving the needs of the capitalist recovery. Can workers and people be prevented, made difficult, prevent this prospect of being delivered to monopolistic groups? We say that the working class, if organized, if the popular strata ally with it and pursue a great counter-attack course, will shape the conditions for conquests, they will shape the conditions for claiming their own power, which will make its own design and does not follow the design of capitalism itself to increase its profits. As long as the reorganisation of the movement is delayed, as long as the struggle against monopolies and political forces that serve them is not strengthened, they will become more aggressive towards the workers and the people and their position will deteriorate further. In this bill, these two strategies conflict. One connects all of you despite your differences, supports capitalist development and, of course, expresses individual differences. The other is the one that the JRC presents, and we call on the world, especially the working class, to join us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Maniotis, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u131	Mr. President, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u132	Tell me what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u133	Can you call the previous president, Mr. Bored? Learn not to iron the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u134	My colleague, Mr. Bored is not here. I don't know what you're talking about. You're probably right. I don't know, but since Mr. Bored is not here, for elementary reasons of discretion, please don't raise the matter. Another time when he's here...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u135	Don't iron the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u136	All right, he'll be transferred.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u137	It's written in the Minutes what he said when I got up to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, my colleague. Because he is not here now, let us agree that we are not moving on with this. Mr. Maniatou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, I want to make a specific proposal, but before that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u140	Excuse me. Do you want to take the floor for your dentistry? To put time, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u141	No, give me a minute on a point of order. Don't put any time on it. Firstly, from our point of view, the Minister's words for independent authorities and regulators are regarded as unspeakable, because yesterday in the committee we agreed that the Minister will send a letter to the President of the Commission so that all the issues of regulators and independent authorities can be discussed in a separate, dedicated debate only. We are therefore not a second-guesser, because we do not want to open the debate. We want to have an organised debate. We consider them, I repeat, to be unspeakable. Now, I would like to make a proposal on a point of order and ask Members about it. Instead of starting to vote on an article - an article, as usual, and since I appreciate the position that we can, for example, make a more collective and more massive vote - we are voting in favour of the bill in principle and in all its articles, since the Minister withdrew the amendment we have asked for - and instead of asking us separately for sixty articles, to vote on it. If colleagues accept it, we shall do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u142	Mr Colleague, ask this House if it agrees. Your proposal generally helps us, but we need to know that all colleagues agree. Do you agree, colleagues?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much. Everybody agrees. So we should get into the voting procedure in the way that my colleague proposed. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks is adjourned: ‘Communication of legislation by means of Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on the creation of a single European railway area (OJ L343/32, 14.12.2012) and other provisions’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u144	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u145	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u146	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u147	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u148	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u149	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u150	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u151	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u152	The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u153	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u154	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u155	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u156	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u157	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u158	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u159	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u160	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u161	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u162	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u163	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u164	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u165	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u166	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u167	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u168	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u169	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u170	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u171	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u172	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u173	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u174	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u175	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u176	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u177	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u178	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u179	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u180	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u181	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u182	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u183	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u184	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u185	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u186	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u187	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u188	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u189	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u190	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u191	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u192	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u193	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u194	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u195	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u196	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u197	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u198	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u199	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u200	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u201	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u202	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u203	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u204	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u205	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u206	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u207	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u208	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u209	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u210	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u211	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u212	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u213	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u214	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u215	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u216	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u217	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u218	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u219	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u220	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u221	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u222	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u223	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u224	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u225	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u226	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u227	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u228	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u229	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u230	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u231	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u232	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u233	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u234	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u235	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u236	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u237	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u238	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u239	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u240	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u241	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u242	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u243	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u244	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u245	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u246	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u247	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u248	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u249	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u250	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u251	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u252	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u253	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u254	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u255	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u256	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u257	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u258	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u259	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u260	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u261	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u262	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u263	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u264	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u265	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u266	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u267	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u268	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u269	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u270	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u271	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u272	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u273	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u274	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u275	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u276	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u277	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u278	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u279	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u280	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u281	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u282	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u283	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u284	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u285	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u286	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u287	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u288	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u289	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u290	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u291	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u292	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u293	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u294	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u295	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u296	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u297	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u298	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u299	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u300	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u301	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u302	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u303	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u304	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u305	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u306	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u307	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u308	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u309	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u310	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u311	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u312	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u313	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u314	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u315	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u316	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u317	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u318	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u319	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u320	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u321	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u322	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u323	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u324	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u325	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u326	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u327	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u328	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u329	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u330	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u331	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u332	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u333	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u334	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u335	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u336	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u337	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u338	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u339	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u340	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u341	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u342	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u343	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u344	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u345	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u346	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u347	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u348	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u349	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u350	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u351	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u352	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u353	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u354	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u355	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u356	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u357	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u358	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u359	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u360	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u361	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u362	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u363	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u364	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u365	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u366	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u367	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u368	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u369	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u370	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u371	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u372	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u373	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u374	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u375	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u376	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u377	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u378	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u379	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u380	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u381	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u382	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u383	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u384	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u385	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u386	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u387	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u388	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u389	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u390	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u391	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u392	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u393	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u394	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u395	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u396	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u397	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u398	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u399	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u400	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u401	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u402	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u403	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u404	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u405	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u406	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u407	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u408	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u409	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u410	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u411	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u412	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u413	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u414	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u415	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u416	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u417	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u418	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u419	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u420	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u421	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u422	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u423	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u424	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u425	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u426	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u427	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u428	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u429	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u430	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u431	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u432	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u433	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u434	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u435	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u436	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u437	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u438	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u439	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u440	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u441	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u442	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u443	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u444	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u445	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u446	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u447	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u448	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u449	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u450	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u451	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u452	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u453	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u454	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u455	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u456	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u457	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u458	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u459	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u460	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u461	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u462	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u463	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u464	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u465	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u466	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u467	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u468	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u469	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u470	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u471	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u472	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u473	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u474	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u475	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u476	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u477	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u478	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u479	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u480	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u481	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u482	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u483	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u484	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u485	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u486	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u487	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u488	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u489	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u490	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u491	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u492	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u493	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u494	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u495	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u496	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u497	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u498	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u499	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u500	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u501	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u502	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u503	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u504	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u505	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u506	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u507	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u508	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u509	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u510	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u511	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u512	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u513	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u514	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u515	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u516	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u517	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u518	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u519	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u520	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u521	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u522	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u523	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u524	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u525	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u526	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u527	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u528	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u529	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u530	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u531	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u532	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u533	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u534	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u535	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u536	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u537	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u538	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u539	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u540	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u541	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u542	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u543	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u544	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u545	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u546	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u547	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u548	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u549	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u550	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u551	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u552	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u553	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u554	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u555	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u556	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u557	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u558	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u559	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u560	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u561	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u562	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u563	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u564	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u565	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u566	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u567	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u568	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u569	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u570	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u571	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u572	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u573	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u574	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u575	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u576	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u577	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u578	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u579	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u580	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u581	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u582	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u583	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u584	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u585	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u586	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u587	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u588	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u589	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u590	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u591	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u592	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u593	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u594	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u595	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u596	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u597	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u598	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u599	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u600	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u601	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u602	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u603	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u604	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u605	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u606	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u607	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u608	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u609	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u610	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u611	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u612	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u613	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u614	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u615	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u616	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u617	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u618	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u619	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u620	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u621	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u622	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u623	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u624	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u625	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u626	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u627	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u628	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u629	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u630	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u631	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u632	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u633	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u634	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u635	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u636	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u637	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u638	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u639	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u640	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u641	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u642	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u643	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u644	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u645	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u646	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u647	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u648	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u649	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u650	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u651	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u652	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u653	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u654	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u655	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u656	Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u657	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u658	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u659	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u660	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u661	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u662	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u663	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u664	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u665	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u666	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u667	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u668	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u669	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u670	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u671	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u672	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u673	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u674	Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u675	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u676	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u677	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u678	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u679	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u680	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u681	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u682	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u683	Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 60 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u684	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u685	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u686	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u687	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u688	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u689	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u690	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u691	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u692	Article 60 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 61 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u693	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u694	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u695	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u696	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u697	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u698	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u699	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u700	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u701	Article 61 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u702	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u703	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u704	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u705	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u706	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u707	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u708	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u709	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u710	Article 62 was therefore accepted as a majority. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u711	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u712	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u713	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u714	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u715	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u716	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u717	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u718	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u719	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks: ‘Compatibility of legislation with Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on the creation of a single European railway area (OJ L343/32, 14.12.2012) and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and on articles. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u720	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u721	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u722	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u723	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u724	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u725	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u726	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u727	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u728	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks: ‘Horizontalisation of legislation with Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on the creation of a single European railway area (OJ L343/32, 14.12.2012) and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u729	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u730	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-22-S1-commons.u731	The meeting on Monday, July 25, 2016, at 13.00, on the subject of the House's work: the only debate and vote at the outset, the articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘Framework on safety in offshore hydrocarbon research and exploitation, incorporation of Directive 2013/30/EU, amendment of Directive 2013/30/EU and other provisions’.
