ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The seventh will be discussed under number 640/10-3-2016 topical question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdou to the Minister of National Defence, on the Hellenic Defence Systems (ESA). The Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas, will answer. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have colleagues who value the icons in Idomen. You have had fellow Members who have made lectures on the 'leaving' of migrants and refugees. You have colleagues who would have Davos in the Mediterranean. You have colleagues who found that in 1821 the formation of the Greek nation begins. It is not a government, Mr President, it is a 'dream team of the puppy'. But in this "dream team of the puppy" you have not been included. You are moderate and have separated your position, at least during the political developments from the team champions. First on this rally comes the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, with what he said yesterday with the "investors" or potential "investors" from refugees and immigrants! You certainly did not seek investors from refugees and immigrants. But, Minister, we had a debate on very low tones with very substantial arguments about a month ago and on many points of your replies, it appears that they would be well described if it gave three 'a' answers. Inaccurate, untrue, ambiguity. And since I do not want our confrontation to take the form of designations, I would ask you to be more specific today and to submit what you promised me and Mr Lambroulis, who chaired that day, a list of the conventions of the NSAs on which they are going, how they are going. In other words, what you have said orally and had failures, inaccurate - I say again - and ambiguities, to have them on a list to see the truth of your names and not to resort to the institution of timely questions, but to do parliamentary control with the institution of written questions. I have invited you and Mr Lambroulis to do so and you have promised - I have the minutes from your reply - how to submit these within the next few days in Parliament or send them to us. You didn't either. I'll tell them in a more specific way in my dentistry. However, in your theology you say, how the magic became and your budget of 2016 changed. You have sent a budget to the Ministry of Finance, I have noticed that you must send it over and in a few days you have sent it over again. What magical way did you do that? And in any case, give us the closure of the company in 2015 and the report for the first quarter of 2016, so that we can reach agreement in this Chamber on very precise terms. The rest I shall refer to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u4	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u5	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Loverdos, who reinstated his question in relation to NSAs and came back and left a little behind what he said that day. As you can see, there is a need for greater cooperation, because it is not possible for a Minister - whatever minister - to close all Mondays and Fridays, if there is a timely question for him. This is not about you. Secondly, I understand that there are opinions or something we need to say, which we bring from home. So your prototype has nothing to do with what you're asking for in this particular question. Thirdly, I want to tell you that what you said about my colleagues and so on...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u6	My introduction was that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u7	Your introduction! I have to tell you, Mr Loverdo, that on certain issues you are right. You're so right, you're asking two questions and you've achieved three! So it really wasn't 11 D.A. lawyers. It was ten. Now how important this is, the number eleven or ten in relation to my speech, I imagine you can explain it to us. Fourthly, Mr. Venizelos and Mrs. Genemas did their job. But in my answer - and not to start and congratulate someone who did his job, that is to say he went to a defensive system report or signed a programme contract - I was not referring to those contracts, in particular to the ATC. We are talking about new contracts and new jobs that we are trying to do with India. But you are also giving me a chance to have a real debate on what happened in connection with the Hellenic Defence Systems. And I think you're here to hear substantial answers. I will begin with your second question, how will we avoid what your government has agreed, the further shrinking of the NSAs to two factories and three hundred eighteen workers, if the extremely ambitious economic targets are not met? We had an agreement at the end of 2013. They were hired to negotiate and implement the four private companies. People got their reward, about 1 million euros. But what are we talking about? We are not discussing whether or not they have done their job well - I will submit documents in relation to this - nor will I judge it. They did their job well. The central idea of the bill, then, was nothing original. They separated "ASS S.A." into a military department, in good and bad. And here is the issue of development. While they say 'in bad will we carry the burdens', what are they actually doing? They're carrying the weights to good. On the one hand, they break up, one company, and they put the bomb on the other company to close. What's still agreed? To close the factory of both Mandra and Elefsina. Let me tell you what we have done and tell you about the budgetary issues you have raised. When I took over as Deputy Minister, the first thing I asked was where the 2015 budget is. Official response from NSAs: 2015 budget- as you know it should have been written in 2014-it wasn't. A company was operating, that is, without a budget. Secondly, we also asked what these companies have done? So these companies, which did the very good work, I say to you that, while they were talking about recovering State aid from the clearing of the political arm, at the end you agreed - all of this - on the break-up balance, on the matching of a share of an old company with the share of the military arm, that is, they transferred all to the essence of the money and the demands on the military arm. What do we do and what do we do? We have honoured your signature. I mean, we made an effort. The Elefsina factory was closed without anyone being fired and at the same time we are integrating the Erika. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] In relation to the question of recruitment, I should like to tell you that it is a different thing to have ten and to make them seven and different to hire one only for Ergy with a fixed-term contract, for six months to 625 euros. Make multiplication 6x625 and consider the three for the total amount. I still want to tell you that on the political side you still included the Epirus Metallurgical Industry. Within nine months, a company, which took 50% of its total cost, has already exceeded - in 2016 - its total cost is compatible and wins. Of course, we are moving on to what we call the CSR. In other words, we put it in special liquidation, which you did not do, while you agreed on it with much better prospects and with greater profits for the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u8	Could you leave something for your dentistry, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u9	I shall conclude, Mr President. I present the breakdown balance sheet with the budget approval of the Hellenic Defence Systems Agency of the year 2016. I'm going to talk to you about this in my dentistry. I am also holding the meeting on the viability of ASAP, i.e. the letter of the four companies to Mr. Quisthos - who was then Deputy Minister - and the response of the NSAs to the question of whether there was an approved budget for 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u11	Minister, I didn't become wiser. I shall, of course, see what you are tabling, whose copy I am asking and which I shall come back with a written question in relation to what is new here. Minister, let me remind you - it is a pity that we are once again discussing the same things, but you are bypassing them and so it is necessary - that the NSAs were going to close down. Now that you live the daily life of cooperation with lenders, I inform you - you will have heard it - that they were going for sure shutdown. They were held because they presented contracts with countries and companies from abroad, and not by accident, whose embassies confirmed the auditors of the lenders, that they were real contracts, as well as contracts that had to do with the interior of the country. Such actions, combined with the internal rationalisation of the NSAs, have shown the NSAs viable and were completely so. Of course, everything depended on the year 2015 and the current year 2016 on the truth of the claims about the company's ability to implement the contracts, to apply faithfully what it signed. There's been a government change. I would remind you that there was another Minister before you named Quiet, with other kinds of targets and in his mind with other things about the troika, about the country's lending and so on. There is one year in 2015, which, according to our information, defence systems are going from evil to worse. I wish you'd be right and not go. However, if you are not right, the Finance Minister will deal with the list of issues and that at the expense of the workers and defence issues in the country. Because that's how we see NSAs, from a double perspective, and that's why we fought to stay upright. I asked you to tell me how it closed in 2015 and the first quarter of 2016. I'm waiting for it. Secondly, when it comes to shrinking - what shrinkage? - the institution of voluntary exit has been predicted and everything has gone calmly in the context of a work peace, with you opposition, Minister. It's rare, though. It is foreseen that if 2015 and 2016 the company fails to meet its obligations, it should shrink further. What are you saying here? You answered me a while ago here that all four factories will have jobs. What do they have to do with them? Look at the record of your answer, where you said they would have jobs. What kind of business will they have? There is no specific evidence of what you are saying. You also told me that we had 11 lawyers in the NSA and you fired the three. Now you're saying it was ten and not eleven. A lot of them are ten. Is it true, though, that you hired a legal counselor? Because, if it's true, it's a different argument, and otherwise, if it's not true, Minister. You also told me that for the six people's redundancies in the company's critical positions, you are talking about it again. The information we have is that you have made no contact in this regard. You also told me that no programme was compromised by the previous government and that I wrongly claim it here. Today you've changed the line of cruising. I also have to tell you, from my study, of programmes that were compatible during the period of Ms. Genemas. I am referring to ammunition 050 and 40L60, as is several more framework contracts. I will have time to deal with some of them if I have another minute, Mr President. You have shown me as the original example of industrial participation in your days. I'll let you know, as I'm told, that it's always been. Industrial participation has always been predicted. You showed me that in relation to Greek companies there was never any participation. The briefing I have is that exactly the opposite was happening. There's always been participation. And if you give concrete evidence, it will come up and it will appear. You are referring to companies with which either a contract has been concluded on Mr Genemas - I add 'HK FRANCE' - or companies that do not exist in this area, such as 'LIOYD'. You are also referring to a contract which, he says, will give the company ten million in 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u12	Finish, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u13	I'll be done. You didn't mention in your speech - and then I hadn't kept it - which company is that. Look at yourself and you'll see these. As you also referred to an agreement with Kenya, which we cannot identify. More. You're pushing me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u14	I'm not pushing you. It has already been doubled and Mr Constantinople is also waiting, who did not think his question would be answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u15	I advise you, not in the sense of political advice, because I am not in a position and neither want to do so, but I think that for our parliamentary cooperation it is more difficult to get your speech from the Minutes of the House about twenty-five days ago and to see what you said to me and send me, by submitting them to the House, not to me - if you like, very gladly - one to one of your arguments with the relevant documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u16	Mr Minister, you have the floor, but not for twice as long, because the questioners do the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u17	No, very soon. I don't know why you didn't hear that, Mr. Loverdos, you might have thought of something else at the time, but as far as your question about recruitment and a new lawyer is concerned, the answer I gave you was that you were recruiting a lawyer under an indefinite contract of indefinite duration.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u18	With 600 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u19	There is a legal project contract for a period of six months and a fee of EUR 625 per month.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u20	What's changing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u21	And with this logic, I told you to count three lawyers at one company on the issue of Errorism and the cost and the reward to end this story of the Error merger. The first is that. Secondly, in order not to be manipulated by any internal information, it is this. What'd you testify for? You tabled a first plan, which I explained to you that I asked and never officially came to my office, because there was no budget for 2015. And I add, if you read well what I answered to you that day of the first question, that I spoke in relation to what was promised by the previous administration and that had never been compromised. I've never raised a matter. If you want to do this with how Mr. Vitsas works, how Mrs. Gennamas worked and how Mr. Venizelos worked, it's another matter. That's why I'm telling you that we're getting all the good stuff and I'm really gonna send it to you, because I guess you don't expect me to tell you one of the contracts. And it is not very proper, at the beginning of 2016, to predict what will happen, in relation to a contract that has so far been rejected, not for substantial reasons, and which will be compatible. I'm talking about OTO Melara, so we can shut it down here. So we and new contracts that are being launched and launched and negotiated with the quartet, if you like, in all these ways, not only will we make it sustainable but also profitable. What I explained to you and you did not answer is that there was no break-up of NSAs to keep NSAs alive, but to end the political part of NCAs and to close NCAs a while later. Therefore, you have never recapitalised the debts, which is why you have transferred the large part of the debts to the military arm of the NSAs, or if you want state subsidies, and so - I am not saying that you have deliberately done so, the troika also pushed you - you have put a bomb to the NSAs themselves. I'm waiting for the written questions. In addition to this, I am tabling the explanatory statement of the NSA Act - the amendment you tabled and voted on at the time - to see what I am talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the President of the People's League Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn, Nicholas Michaloliakos and the Members of his party tabled on 24-3-2016 a proposal for a law: 'Following illegal immigration'. We are going to the second with number 745/38/2-11-2015 question - an application for the submission of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Parliament I of the New Republic of Athens Mr Nikita Kaklamani to the Minister of Finance, concerning the stay of Mr Kim Glenn as advisor to the Government. Mr. Kaklamanis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u23	Minister, Kim Glen was one of the many foreign advisers Mr. Yanis brought to Greece - with a neo-Varoufakis, but to date remains a close associate of the Prime Minister and yours. However, to date there has been no relevant communication on its status, which handles crucial issues of the Greek economy. In fact, a year has already passed since I brought the matter to Parliament, neither you nor the then Minister, Mr Varoufakis, have actually answered it. In my previous written question - a year ago - your predecessor admitted, among other things, that Mr. Kim Glen accompanied the Minister of Finance, Mr. Yani Varoufakis, in his capacity as a private person, with whom he joined the Greek mission under the Minister. To date, this individual has participated with you, as I mention, at the crucial summit held on 12 July, which led to the third memorandum, at a meeting of the Governing Council of Economic Policy, at the meeting of the technical stadiums at a Athens hotel, at a meeting with you on 30 September and the Deputy Prime Minister of Government on 14 October, at a meeting of yours with Mr. Shoeble and Diaselblum. However, to date it has not been formally answered by the Greek Government if the principal in question is institutionally linked to the Greek Government as its adviser and whether payment is made and what amount it is. In Mr Varoufakis' answer to me a year ago - I mean in writing - there is no mention of the question of remuneration. However, as soon as Mr. Varoufakis left, they came to the public eye that stressed that this private consultant demanded the Ministry of Finance 375,000 euros for his services and remained unknown to date... [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Thirty seconds, Mr President. ...if the above money or any other amount have been paid to him, if the publications are true. I don't know. Also, on January 18, 2016, the Secretary General of your Ministry approved 800,000 euros for the award to distinguished experts of the government's advisory work in negotiating the country with partners. Consequently, the questions I ask you, Mr Minister, are: Are these publications true? Does he have an official relationship with the government or the Treasury under contract or anything else? If so, please submit them to the Minutes. If not, what does the Greek State appear to pay him daily expenses, hotel and air tickets? How much money has been paid by the Greek State to Mr Kim Glen in total, but also in kind, from 25 January to today? What matters as a private person accompanying the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister? Is there any contract or confidentiality and confidentiality clause on the highly sensitive issues of the Greek public who handles it? Finally - and I thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance - how is it ensured that a foreigner works for the interests of the Greek State, while it is certain that this gentleman has parallel work and activities, which we do not know, but has them? Do they have conflicting interests or not with the interests of the Greek State?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u24	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. I want to tell you that there were too many questions to answer in three minutes, so I'm gonna use my denture if I don't have time to answer everything. I have to tell you that this Greek Government has a great deal of confidence in public and public officials. If the people listening to us saw how many servants are in my office and how hard they work, legal and economists and others, they would be impressed and might change the opinion of the public sector. Nevertheless, there are many issues - economic, legal, financial - which any government needs more specialised knowledge, and that is why we also need to have consultants. The difference in this government is that in the summer there was a PPP that had a framework that the CYSOP could entrust to projects that are either confidential or exceptional, which needed expertise on the markets, on legal issues, on economic issues, which were related to the support of negotiation, which would be covered by the budget. As you will know, last week there was an amendment that made these provisions clearer. With great transparency, it says that we will be entrusting in the future with the decision of the KYSOP, with my signature and, of course, the Vice-President of the Government and the President of the KYSOP and the relevant Minister, something that they need. I think that's important. I will make you, if you will, compare how they worked and what the previous governments were assigned. I mean, as to the first question, we haven't assigned Glen Kim as a person, but at the office he's got. I mean, along with this PPP has a contract after summer. We're entrusting it to his office. Mr. Glen Kim has a huge experience both in Asian countries and in Iceland on many issues on the capital markets. It's the knowledge of that person. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. Here is a discussion if it was to be done per project, as will be necessary in the future, to award - “PRICE WATERHOUSE”, “TOUCHE”, “ERNST & YOUNG” - and get a package that is usually well paid or if it is better to have such an office, which at any time, except in the form of a report on it or on that subject, you can have someone who can advise you on very difficult things, from bank recapitalisation to red loans, until debt negotiations, until many other issues are negotiated. I think we've made a very good choice. The way we do it is much more transparent and I will explain to you how it was done in the past. I think that if I wanted to tell you something and speak to you honestly, it would be that one of my favorite police novels is the American Mosley, the "Always Outnumbered, Always Outgunned", which means in Greek that I feel many times that I have people who are more and more weapons. I have to tell you that the picture I have, despite all the good words I have said and which I believe in the public sector, is that many times in the negotiation, for example, with the IMF, the weapons and people who have at all times been negotiating are more. The Greek Government's problem, although it is trying to make big savings and not assign work to large houses without good reason, is that many times, as I have felt in the negotiation, the opposite side had more weapons and more people for this negotiation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u26	You have the floor, Mr. Kaklamani.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, if I have not been in this Chamber since 1990, and if I have not been Vice-President of the House - two things which require me to respect the institution - and for reasons of courtesy to the person of the Minister, I should reasonably have left Ethiopia at this time. After eight postponements - because eight postponements were made under Mr Tsakalotou's Minister until today's day before he answered me - you did not answer me, Minister, to any questions. I didn't injure you that you made a clear partnership. Especially you guys would never say that. I didn't tell you if you trust or you don't trust the officials of the Greek State. I asked you seven very specific questions. You didn't answer me to anybody, not one. I asked you numbers. I asked you for money. I told you to testify in the Minutes. You're acting like you didn't hear what I asked you. The only thing that you said, but which unfortunately confirms my fears, is the Act - as you said, the MDG - of 31 July, which you have recently partially amended. You said that on the basis of this MDG of 31 July you signed a contract with Mr. Kim Glenn's office. Please testify to the contract in the Minutes, to see what amount. That's what I asked you to do. But do you want to tell me that from January to 31 July, when you signed the contract with Mr. Kim Glenn's office, this philhellenic and his office were working free of charge for the Greek State? Is that what you want to tell us? If that is the case, I, once you tell me, will believe it and accept it. But it seems very strange for eight months to work an entire office, even giving you such valuable advice as you said, free of charge. Well, then he should also be used by other ministries, since he loves our country so much. We're gonna make a lot of money. So I would ask you, firstly, to tell me what you have in your hands and, in particular, the contract you said that you signed after 31 July, on the basis of the first MDG that was amended, as we said, and everything else that Mr has. For then Mr Varoufakis lied to me, who told me that he was paying his daily expenses, his hotels and all that. We need them. You posted them in "GENERAL", but no amounts next door. Why didn't you put the money to see where he was staying? "Four Seasons" was Mr. Kim Glen staying? Go business class? How much are those amounts, even those that are not remuneration? That's what I've been asking for for a year and you're not bringing them to the House. Please very much, because I have raised demands from you, due to respect for your face. I want you, in everything you are sloppy today to answer, answer it and commit that by Friday you will send to the Minutes of Parliament and to the Convention and any other documents you have.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u28	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u29	I think, Mr. Colleague, you were right to me and Mr. Kim. You blamed me for answering specific questions. I said he's a consultant and he's mine, not the Prime Minister or someone else. He has, of course, helped through me and other ministers. I have answered the specific way in which the contract exists. I have answered what matters he is dealing with, which is within your questions. So I'm wrong with your sarcasm and your irony that he's so philhellene. I have to tell you that it is not rare for people to work pro bono and then, because they show an interest, to get a contract. It's not a rare thing. I have to tell you it's common practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u30	What amount does the contract indicate?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u31	And it's not a rare thing to love a country and want to help her. It's not that rare!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u32	Yes, sir!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u33	Let us not have this deceptive position, because young people are listening to us, and they will see that there are only contracts that are in money. There is now this relationship. The Cyssop made it very clear. And that is what we voted on, that is, that there are contracts which, for reasons of emergency or confidentiality, can be awarded by the CYSOP. That's how it happened. I don't think that's terrible. In relation to what you are saying, namely that you have this story as President - which I respect too - I must tell you that I have not seen all these conventions. Do you know how many millions we talk about the PSI and how many houses? Have you seen these? Is it in the Minutes of the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u34	I did stricter control then!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u35	Do you know that in the banks in 2014 in the recapitalisation we had expenditures of 14.4 million and we in 2015 had 1 million? Do you know that through the HIAD ministers were deciding on specific consultants and then on every privatisation they were paid back through the money from the HIAD?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, I'm sorry, but I'm leaving. I came here and asked other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u37	Why would you leave? Now that the question is answered, will you leave?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u38	No, Mr. President, I specifically answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u39	The Minister is underestimating my intelligence. I didn't ask him to answer what he's telling me right now. Can you deposit the contract?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u40	That's what I'm saying! That's not a question. That's something you're asking for!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u41	It's not something I'm asking. The President read it! It's a question and an application for documents!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u42	I've answered you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u43	So please testify to the contract!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u44	If you want us to have a quiet dialogue, we can do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u45	Are you kidding me now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u46	I think I said what I need to say!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u48	Minister, are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u49	Hey, yeah! I answer the same way he speaks to me! And I'm sorry about that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u51	All right! I'm going to appeal for an attorney's order to get the contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty two students and students and five educational sessions from the 2nd Elementary School of Archangelos Rhodes and the 3rd Municipal School of Afantou Rhodes. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And now we move to the eleventh, with number 429/19-1-2016, a topical question for the second cycle of the Athens MP, Potamios Theocharis Theocharis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the resolution of the problem of the "SSPIS" Group and the determination of the time schedule for payment of the compensation to the beneficiaries. Mr Theocharis, you have the floor and I ask you to set an example of the impeccable maintenance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. I will try, although we are coming to discuss a timely question that is no longer timely. I'm afraid so. It's been a long time since it's been timely. We have tried to respect the obligation to negotiate, but there must also be some respect for the parliamentary procedure. We asked a question about "SPAS", because it has been seven years since 2009, when its authorisation was withdrawn. More than two hundred thousand families are actually in a hostage, waiting for what is finally going to happen with their insured savings, and if, anyway, they will be compensated at some point. My question was about the actions that the Ministry intends to take in order to withdraw the list of beneficiaries. However, the question is totally impeccable, Mr President, since from 18 January 2016 and with the continuous postponements, the deadline for opposition against the list of beneficiaries has already expired. We cannot discuss topical questions about things that do not apply. So let me remind you that the table has included forty thousand of the total two hundred thousand contracts, leaving 80% of the people outside. This is a serious issue and no one could offend this table. So you understand that eighty-five thousand people are in difficulty, because they saw their savings lost and cannot bear the cost of this process, as is the time of the 40-five days to make all these procedures by lawyers, who are supposedly taking many cases together. The beneficiaries of the contracts are therefore in the seventh year of uncertainty and the solution must now be given immediately. So we ask the Minister what action you intend to take as a Ministry, in order to help resolve the "SPAIN PROMOTION" Group? As I said to you, many things have passed, but which, over the last six years, has been afflicting hundreds of thousands of families by harming the private insurance industry and its professionals and the Greek economy, given the fact that the deadline for opposition has expired. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. What actions have been identified and what is the schedule for the payment of compensation to the beneficiaries from the assets of the companies in liquidation, but also from the life assurance fund under Law 3867/2010? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Theochari, I have the painting from the clearer here. The figures are a little different from those you say - it is not of enormous importance - and I shall submit them in the Minutes more to explain the composition of the numbers, more than the absolute numbers and how many unproclaimed contracts we had. A very large percentage - which is not 80%, is a little less, but that is not the essence - is for very small amounts. Obviously, people didn't go to say "and I want to share in it", because it was a small amount and if you put the costs in court, maybe it wasn't worth it. One thing you are asking me, namely what we can do in this case and in other cases, is to see that amount, the costs of legal proceedings, which perhaps for small amounts are not worth the trouble of entering into this procedure. Now, for the contracts announced and not included in the table, I have to tell you that the clearer claims that many of these are investment funds, so they will be able to participate when the joint liquidation takes place and not the insurance liquidation, so that's in the second. I do not think there was much to be done. I think it's all based on the law. I do not have - nor do I understand from your question that there is - some criticism that this whole process has not been carried out properly, which everyone has had time to say that he wants to participate and that he also has demands from the clearer. I have to tell you that the only thing we could think about is for the one who's finished his case if he could get the money ahead of us. As you can see, this process is having a hard time, because if it's unfinished cases, you don't know how much money it's going to take, so it's not easy to pay you, if I don't know what the clearer will get me out of all the other cases. But there is one issue we can look at. So we are also looking at the question of the legal costs that someone needs to be involved in such a procedure. We are also looking at this, whether the procedure could be quicker for those who have decided how much they are entitled to, but beyond that, I cannot tell you that I have seen and been informed that we had to start with something in the process, because it would create too many problems and too many delays for the people who have put their name and said 'I also need to take part in this process'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u56	Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, thank you. Minister, the problem is complicated. I think it is cynicism to see, to talk and say: ‘What to do? These people have had little money and they can't move the procedures, because only the costs will be too great for them." We must find a solution here with regard to these people who have even put these amounts in and need compensation. I will not teach you a lesson - you know that much better than I do - in what situation the Greek people are and how these sums can be important to these people. At the moment, however, we are talking about people - and I recognise that it is not a problem that you created it, it is a problem of private insurance over time, but you are the Minister responsible at the moment and you have this issue in front of you - sold these products as insurance. These people didn't realize they had investment products. We cannot accept that, abundantly drinking, what the clearer says is that we are talking about investment products. And nothing will happen because I tell you that when we go to the joint liquidation there will be no single euro, because the money is not even enough for the insurance clearance. Therefore, these people are telling you that they will get zero, in the process of joint liquidation. So this is where there is a matter of supervising the state and mockery of these people. You need to sit on the same table from the Ministry, the Bank of Greece with the PPC, the Association of Greek Insurance Companies, the clearers and find a process by which you can solve this problem. The essential issue - if you wish - that we can finally activate Mr L.3867/2010 for the guarantee fund, and that there is even partial compensation in such cases, to go to the more general question, is to find financing for the guarantee fund. This funding by issuing bonds up to 200 million, which is theoretically possible, stumbles in the fact that the public cannot be guaranteed by our obligations. Therefore, you must again call on the insurance companies to see if, if necessary, they can guarantee the guarantee fund to go to a bank loan, so that a procedure can also be initiated to compensate some people at the moment. Because, we see that we have enclaved people with life savings. Minister, you have to understand that we are talking about people whose life savings went hand-in-hand and something we have to say to these people. We cannot shut them down, transfer them between Anna and Kaiafa and wash our hands as Pontius Pilates, saying 'we what to do? The law and procedures were followed.’ Their problem is real. They are families with problems and families, which are at the west of their lives, who have no way of dealing with this issue. You need to see it more positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. I think I said it, but to be clear again, it's not the Minister of Finance who says whether it's investment product or not, it's the clearer. So I cannot make any intervention in this part and say 'no, these are not investment'. In relation to the question relating to the guarantee fund, I would like to say that the law as it stands provides that after the end of the insurance liquidation, after the whole of the company's assets have been liquidated, the insured are met symmetrically. If the property is not sufficient to meet the requirements at 100% of the remaining balance, it will pay 70% of the life guarantee capital. Moreover, if I am not mistaken, because you were the rapporteur on the 'Solvency II' side, we are making great efforts to prevent us from getting back to this case again. Isn't that right? Do you know that we have a risk reduction for an insurance policy that cannot meet its obligations? We have things that - I don't remember - but I think you voted for them too. We've done a lot of things so we don't get there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u60	From now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u61	What the Ministry of Finance needs to hear, whatever demands and why they did not make the request, we do so, but you know that it is not possible for the Minister of Finance to go up and tell the clearer "do that" when he has followed all the legal procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, too. The tenth question will be discussed under number 408/18-1-2016 by the Deputy Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance on the progress of the development of the former airport of Greece. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. We've met many times, you and I, without the Minister, but finally good, everything's fine. I hope the Minister will give us answers on the issue of the use of Greek. I begin with the answer given a few days ago by the Minister himself, sending an answer to SYRIZA MPs, on 24-11-2015. It is the answer he sends to the Members of SYRIZA on the subject of the Greek. On the 11th day of the month, I had first tabled the timely question, Minister. We have 28 today. You say that it carries out the Court of Auditors before a contractual review of legality in all the contracts for the exploitation of the GOI. In the case of the Greek tender, the decision 308/7-11-2014 was issued, which was positive from what I understand, Minister, as you write it. So, in the first phase on 24-11-2015 you tell us that this process has proceeded and passed through the Court of Auditors and, at the same time, let us know that the final sale contract of the shares of the GOI and the "LAMDA DEVELOPMENT SA" is going to come for ratification in the House. First of all, Mr Minister, it is a clear question: it has been three months since my question. Will you bring this contract to the House immediately? And why am I saying that? In my view, but also from what I hear from the government, you want to proceed with the investments. For the investment of the Greek, on the basis of not what the company says, but what IOBE says, which you too lately from what I know you are using, I would like to tell you some details. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Firstly, the contribution to the country's GDP, based on the relevant IOB study, will amount to 2%. Ten thousand new jobs will be created immediately during the first five years in which construction work will be carried out and two thousand new jobs will be added each year. IOBE says about seventy thousand direct new jobs. We will have revenues for the insurance funds and for the Greek State. I really believe that this move will be the sovereign of foreign investment, because the country will proceed to a very large investment, in which we do not only have Greek capital but also foreign capital. I would ask you to answer me if the government, as you say in your question, intends to bring the contract to the House immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u64	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u65	Thank you for the question, Mr Colleague. We have several prerequisites for the completion of the project in Greece. The contract is expected to come to ratification by Parliament immediately after the completion of its update process, which is under way. We have the approval of the integrated development plan of the region by a presidential decree. The investor is expected to submit the relevant plans and studies on ‘State environmental impact study’, etc. and then the procedure for the adoption of the President's decree will be initiated. We need a legislative framework for the granting of casino licences and for the award of a casino licence to the extent. In the near future the relevant procedure should be initiated. The procedure for transferring property property rights from the Greek State and TIADE to the Hellenic Republic is already under way and will be completed after the adoption of the Presidential Decree approving the land development plan. Finally, it is the evacuation of the property from all users, public bodies and private individuals. Of the sixty-nine users located in the property - forty-four public and twenty-five private individuals - the majority of private and public bodies have been removed. In the near future, the removal of all other private individuals should be completed and the relocation process for the remaining public entities should be launched. We've done various actions since November 2015 to this day. On 8 November 2015, the new Board of Directors of the Hellenic Republic S.A. was appointed and on 16 November 2015 the coordinator of the project was appointed by government. Since then, the "Hellenic SA" and the project coordinator have been working systematically for the purpose of implementing all the prerequisites of the Greek State. In this context, the following key actions have been taken in recent months: development of a strategy and timetable for the implementation of the prerequisites provided for in the contract, activation of an investor's presence at meetings of the Board of Directors. ‘ELLENIC S.A.’, activation of procedures for the speeding up of the relocation of public entities, presentations by the investor of the development plan to stakeholders, contacts with the investment scheme for the organisation of technical, legal and town-based issues and investment loose ends. We've done more. I won't read it to you. I think that we have done enough to prevent you from stressing this issue. I think we need a renegotiation on a few issues. It is to the benefit of both the Greek Government and the country, as well as of local societies in this region.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u66	Are you covered, Mr. Constantinople? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u67	First of all, I'm not nervous. Normal stress must be given to the government to proceed with the investment under all conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u68	I didn't say it deceptively.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u69	No, to God. I think that's your job. Firstly, I understood that you were sent with a paper, but you did not tell me politically what your timetable is. What is the government's timetable for this investment? I understand that the government wants the investment to go ahead politically. I understand that and I'm happy about it. It's very important. It is a new element, after sixteen months of governance, that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government wants to move forward with the investment of the Greek with all the conditions you have set and all that. The second basic point: Minister, as a political leadership, in addition to the TIAD, is what the timeframe you have set for progressing and bringing the contract to the House? Would you like the next semester? Will you do it for the next two years? The next five years? When? What is it that you're putting as Minister of Finance? I speak on the basis of what you say, Minister. Since you sent the first answer, in January, until now, it has been three months. Are we making progress on this? What's the progress on this? Please, this is a political issue. When will you finish this process? You say that after the end of the first semester growth will begin in the country. Have you put in this process and the investment project related to the Greek project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u70	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u71	Minister, I read you various things that we did after the written answer. What I read to you was things that happened after the answer I gave you. It's what I read. I don't want to talk to you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u72	Will you testify? Are you going to file this text?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u73	I'd love to. It's in a form I can't testify to now. They are my notes, but I will be happy to present the actions we have taken in the last three or four months. As regards the timetable, I think you know that I have a concern as an economist to make predictions on when to finish the project. You'll know the old joke that an economist is someone who'll tell you tomorrow because what he anticipated yesterday wasn't happening today. I don't want to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u74	Say it, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u75	I think that everything we say and discussions with the investor must be over by autumn. In other words, I think it is an objective that is close enough and we can achieve it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u76	In autumn 2016, i.e.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u77	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u78	Next is the third with number 1944/15-12-2015 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, concerning the reduction of charges on the use of plastic money and transactions via e-banking. It's a serious matter. You have the floor, Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u79	Mr Minister, as the President has said, this is a serious matter. First of all, because I have the impression that the country is violating the European legal order. A regulation which had to apply since 9 December. I do not have the information that it has started to apply to our country. It concerns the cap on electronic transactions, transactions carried out through credit and debit cards. Costs have been analysed too many times and too much has been written. It is very great for both consumers and, of course, for businesses, because it is also the mechanism to be purchased, to be guaranteed. Of course, this cost is even greater when it comes to products, markets, small-scale transactions and in cases where we have a very small profit, such as fuels where small-scale transactions and fuels are completely inconsistent with the operator. He has to put a double price on the gasoline to take out the cost of the transaction. Apart from that, I have to add the huge theft made by the banks just as I tell you, theft. The Ministry must not continue to take back to steal people, citizens for simple interbank transactions, i.e. simple interbank transfers. A simple interbank transfer of 1000 euros is charged 10 euros. In the corner, in the neighborhood where you are, Karagiorgis Serbia and Stadium, it's the National. Against the other side is Piraeus Bank. For 1000 euros online, they want 10 euros. When there were no restrictions on the movement of capital, you did this yourself without any cost. Today, therefore, because of the facts and the capital controls this thing has been imposed, because it is not allowed to open a new account to be in the same bank that is free of charge, - if it is National - National, Piraeus - it does not cost - these people bear a huge amount, which means that if a number of times this transaction is made for the same amount, the bank has taken it, "vi - loan" tells it where they play in technical games. Is that a part of the bank? We mustn't leave it. The question is therefore specific: When will the regulation 751/2015 on the wall in trade finally be applied in Greece and whether the Ministry intends to put a wall in the interbank transfers, with which the money is now being stolen from the consumer, the company, the man who wants to fulfil his obligations? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u80	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u81	What is being raised by you is a matter that concerns the government very much. When I had this question and we did an investigation into what is written in the newspapers, namely, how much the cost in various transactions is, we had good news and bad news. In some transactions it is a large percentage that banks take, in some cases it is not so big and we are quite close to the European Union average. I will put you after the numbers so that I do not now read you a large text, on what average of the European Union we are close to and on which we are not. This, as you know, lies more within the competence of the Ministry of Economy, which has the General Secretariat of Trade, which is responsible for consumer protection. I must tell you that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy, the Electronic Banking Observatory is introduced, which will be at the Secretariat-General, which will be looking at and controlling this directive, the regulation you have said. The Regulation shall apply. If it is applied properly, we will see it through this observatory and that's what he'll tell us. My answer is 'yes, the regulation applies'. Whether it is implemented properly and correctly should be the work of this observatory to know. In two or three months maybe I'll have a better answer to give you. The second thing I would say is that I think the way in which we are going to achieve a better balance in these things is to increase the volume of trade. In other words, banks can reduce supply to all transactions when they have more volumes and so they can, with much smaller sums, reach that profit that they need. For this reason, in the next ten days, a draft law will be submitted to Parliament for the extension and incentives for electronic transactions. For us, this is also extremely important for tax evasion. I think that plastic money is the basic way of dealing with at least one part of tax evasion. I think it will have a positive impact on what you are concerned about in this question. There will be an increase in the volume of trade and therefore these costs will not be allowed in those areas, which are really above the European Union's average. It will be reduced at European Union level or even more. Why shouldn't it be lower?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u82	Hasn't the trade volume already multiplied?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u83	It has, but as you can see, not as much as we want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, thank you. I'm starting at the last thing you said. In February 2012 we tabled a well-processed proposal for a law - a large number of Members from the then parliamentary group - which is in Parliament's archives. On the issue of incentives, on the use of electronic transactions and on the treatment of tax evasion, you will take many useful things through this proposal of law, if you consider it. I now come to the point I raised. Not included in the Directive. It's the simple transfer from bank to bank. The simple transfer from bank to bank, not included in the directive, at the moment - in my opinion - is being used as a vehicle for bank revenue. I can't call it speculation. I called her theft. It's not an exaggeration. It's stealing. The bank you send will charge a euro and the bank where the beneficiary's account is held shall charge 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 euros depending on the amount. That is what I think it can be regulated with EUR 1+1 in interbank transactions. That's it. A plus a euro in interbank transactions. Why? We don't have a free economy here. You're the one who obliges the other to go through the bank. I can't go to Karagiorgi Serbia at the corner to take the grand and take it across to Piraeus to put it on. You forbid me. So you are entitled as a state to make regulations to put EUR 1+1 or in any case whatever the cost is. This has nothing to do with the level of trade in the markets. It's another matter that's independent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u86	He's got a little relationship. Anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u87	Okay. But if you don't put it, you'll keep doing a observatory. Come see this now. I can't say it. A month ago, I had a question to Mr Stathakis, who did not want to come because he did not have much responsibility. I explained that he has competence because he has the General Secretariat of Consumers. He came here and submitted information with the same findings on the excessive charges in the same question, he told us that Mr Tsakalotos, that is, the Ministry of Finance, has to make a ministerial decision, so that together with a directive of the Bank of Greece, we can start the implementation of the regulation in Greece. This is the official response of the Ministry of Economy, which you are considered to be most competent. I won't say anything more today. I will simply say 'commence', because any differentiation in dealing with it, which your own inconsistency, unfortunately, each day, is burdening millions of people with the millions of transactions made electronically and interbankingly. I would ask you very much - if you would like to apply for documents - to tell us what the directive is, what the circular is, what the ministerial decision you have adopted - as you had to do, according to Mr Stathakis - is to start the application of Regulation 751/2015 on the cap on electronic transactions. I shall now say to you - and I shall close - that on 25 January, that is, forty days after I submitted my question, on 15 December 2015 - a question to which you do not answer - you attach to me a document from the Bank of Greece, which is an answer on 8 December, that is, one day before the start of the implementation. Because, of course, the Commissioner could not say, in my view, on 25 January that the regulation was in force when it was not applicable. So you sent me a document dated 8 December, one day ago. It's careful not to be exposed by the documents, I understand that. But look at the substance of the matter, because the citizens are really protesting. Not many things are written in the papers, to inform you, because the large amount of funding, which falls in the newspapers by the banks, is a fact. Yeah? Is there any means he doesn't get advertising from the banks?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Kegeroglu, finish so the Minister can answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u89	From the citizens, I would like to say that it does not come to you, through mass media, because little too they put it 'prices', but it is a very big deal. That's what I want to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u90	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u91	I don't know the last thing you say. My remark, when comparing what the banks do with reality, is that the newspapers write very large numbers without wanting to support the banks. I mean, on the contrary, that may have been my prediction, as you said. But that's not from my experience. They write about too many numbers that when we check them, they don't come out that bad. I must tell you that I am already being informed that this directive is being adopted automatically. Let me look at the answer Mr. Stathakis gave you. I knew I didn't have to do anything at all. In other words, there is no need for a ministerial decision or more than the directive. The Directive should apply in principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u92	The regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u93	And I told you that the Observatory will see whether or not it is applied well. Of course, we have the following problem. This regulation, to which you refer, is also for debit cards and credit cards, but it is not for the transfers that are concerned with you. That's another matter. The numbers you told me seemed great. Check that out, too, because I'm not prepared. It seems to me that the number, I will look into it and come back or ask me a written question. I'll testify to you the evidence I have here for the non-transfers, for the debit cards. But for the transfer, perhaps we should have another conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I should like to inform you at this point that due to the obstruction of Members of Parliament, the second under number 684/21-3-2016 is not being discussed by a timely first question of the Evia MP of the New Democracy Mr. Simeon Kedicoglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the change in the tax framework towards higher taxation in the Greek shipping sector. Also, there is no discussion of the fourth question under number 695/223/2016, first question by the Member of Parliament, Atolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the problem of the operation of the TEI Epirus by the lack of teaching staff and equipment. Furthermore, there is no debate on the eighth under number 624/7-3-2016 topical question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Athanasios Pafilis to the Minister of Finance on the privatisation plans of the company "LARCO" and on the safeguarding of the jobs of its employees. Finally, there is no debate on the ninth under number 548/16-2-2016 topical question by MP II of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Georgios Germene to the Minister of Finance about the "sale of Star Vuliagmenos from the TEAD". Now, the first question will be discussed under number 693-22-2016 of the First Circuit of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Chrysolas Katsavrias - Siropoulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the proper management, invoicing and use of water resources of the Plastira and Smokov lakes. Mrs. Katsavria, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this question is only discussed a few days after the world water day. Water is a basic condition of life and a necessary infrastructure for development and culture. We therefore have to do everything to protect him. In the area of Karditsa and in the wider area of Thessaly, the aqueous potential is under great anthropogenic pressure to meet irrigation needs. For many years negative water balances have led to exhaustion outside renewable and large parts of even permanent water reserves. This means that, apart from new water supply projects required, such as small dams, lakes and others, there must be a clear reduction in water demand, mainly focusing on reducing the waste that is being used and transported, for example by slow irrigation and closed water distribution networks. At the same time, at least in Karditsa, I am well aware of a social and economic conflict over irrigated areas coming from the two reservoirs, Smokovos and Plastiras, as well as from drilling. The current situation regarding the organisation and management of water resources is without excessive chaotic. The managing bodies are the TWGs and the municipalities of the region. The transmission ducts are gravel, canals and closed pipelines for in-net irrigated areas and drainage channels or stream beds for off-nets. Evaporation losses and leaks are too great. The cost of water from the two reservoirs ranges from EUR 1 to EUR 18 per acre, while in the drilling networks irrigation costs range from EUR 40 to EUR 60 per acre. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. In these circumstances, waste water is huge, costing is riddle and consumption exceeds 700 cubic meters per acre. This results in the reduction of irrigated areas, the launching of irrigation costs and the drastic reduction of permanent water reserves due to extraction. Moreover, there are major injustices and inequalities between farmers due to the wide variation in production costs in the same region. Since the establishment of a management body per water catchment area contributes to the rational management of water resources and to the single invoicing of water and there is already an integrated study for the establishment of a management body in the Smokov Lake region, I ask you, Minister: What action will your Ministry take to establish a management body per water basin or to have another single institutional approach? Also, when and how will there be a uniform invoicing of irrigation water in order to eliminate existing differences and injustices in cost of production?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Tsironi, you have the floor for three minutes to answer specifically and not for the usefulness of the water in our lives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. The question you ask me is extremely important because water is a very tranquil proof that we have been on the wrong track for so many years. We considered the resources to be eternal and that the economy, which will have an endless growth, will always find resources. That didn't happen. Especially in Greece - because elsewhere they understood it earlier - we have unfortunately received an unrestrained situation with disastrous consequences. I am referring in particular to: Watermen such as Thessaly, but also elsewhere, literally collapse, with water now coming from many hundreds of meters of depth. To talk about the incredible waste we're seeing, because literally no one knows where it's watering, because it's watering and what time it's watering. To talk about refraction that can destroy multiple amounts of water from those that are currently consumed. And of course I should also like to speak about the latter, that the drilling in Greece has not even been recorded, because there has been a regulation and a threat of an unwarranted fine, which, of course, no one would pay and there is a procedure to catch those who have not declared their drilling. In this situation, therefore, there was also Directive 60/2000, where there are heresy, such as making management plans in every catchment area, but also, of course, there is a huge delay. Fortunately, with a race we have finished these projects that we should have already received - if I recall - since 2011. At least this year we received it, and so we go very quickly - because that is heresy - to find the new management plans. Now - to mention, for example, the people - in this process, the projects have the following very important issues: to manage supply and to strengthen containment actions - such as what you mentioned - for ecological evaluation, whether what we take should end up in the rivers. The rivers want a limit quantity, obviously, to work as ecosystems. For the chemical quality of water - we have recently answered a question about nitrates - and here I say that we are going to new projects in a very short time. For the management bodies, I have something to say. There are forty-four drainage basins. It is very difficult to promise at this time that we will have forty-four new operators. We can, however, use water addresses for the time being as bodies, but always in the direction of taking part in this at some point. Finally, I will mention - so as not to get tired - the first factor. We want not uniform pricing - perhaps that would be impossible - we want uniform rules with certain objectives, such as a price ratio, for example, it is very important. Because in other areas we have a lot of water, and in other areas we have a little water. Even in Thessaly, you know that north of Penios, there in Tirnavos we have very large quantities, south of Penios, we have huge problems. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. We need to see the exceptions: poor farmers, important productive investment and, of course, the most important one, the possibility of paying these consumers. It is not simple to talk about water unless we discuss the quality and the ability to pay consumers, always with the social criteria. We are going in this direction and I think we are going on the right road, even though late, on the basis of the situation we have received.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u98	Mrs Chryssoula Katsavria - Siropoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. I agree that water resources should be managed per water catchment area with the establishment of an appropriate management body. In this direction, as far as our region is concerned, the existing comprehensive study as I said before - and I can state - on the Smokov Lake can also be used. The equal treatment of farmers must, of course, be a priority, which is directly linked to a single invoicing system. I think that the kind of intervention that I have put forward is the result of what is needed. They are mainly institutional interventions, which do not cause budgetary costs, on the contrary, they will certainly have a financial benefit. In view of the extremely acute aqueous problem - and I refer to Karditsa as well as to Thessaly in general - the actions to be taken and the measures to be taken should be directed at four main axes: the savings of water used, the sustainable use of stocks, the increase in the efficiency of hydraulic works and the restoration of environmental damage suffered by the aquatic environment and the aqueous system. There is, of course, also the need to build projects, but which will be part of the final solution to the problems of water supply and irrigation even over time. Minister, it is a common place now that the problem of water in Greece is due to the fact that water balances in the water basins of the soil have long been disturbed, with the result that, apart from renewables, a significant part of our permanent water reserves have been consumed for years. This deadlock is largely due to the neoliberal perception of water policy and, more generally, to environmental policy. In the approach that treats natural water systems with owner mentality, manipulating the water cycle to what extent technology allows it. At this point I would like to highlight the enormous difficulties one faces when attempting to approach the problem of water institutionally and politically. From the construction of plumbing to maintenance and management, many ministries, services and institutions are involved. It's, I think, time to put an end to this mess. The Ministry of Environment and Energy and the National Water Council must take the necessary initiatives to pursue a serious, coherent and effective policy. In conclusion, I would like to remind you of this year's UN message for World Water Day 'Better water, better employment'. With this message the UN gives its mark of the adequate quality and quantity of water that can change people's life and lifestyles, which can even transform societies and economies. I wait with interest, Minister, to hear your answer and your thoughts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u100	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, you raised very important issues. I would like to point out that it is a phase of integration - we are finished and now we are studying the latest touches - the cost analysis of water services, which is heresy, and we will have it ready in a few days. Because, indeed, this decision is a pillar so that we can know at the moment how much water costs in each region and there are specific directives. You mentioned another issue, which concerns costs. For example, consumption is currently over 700 cubic metres per acre. When I see here in the management study that, for example in cotton, which is considered by relatively aquatic crops, the required cubic per acre is only 379, waste is scary and we understand it, but no one has ever dealt with it. A crucial issue you raised is who decides on all of this. Here, indeed, our Ministry is a ministry which, literally, works as the "body head". We are responsible for the forests, but the forests belong to the decentralized administration, to another ministry. We are responsible for towns, but towns belong to the municipalities. We are responsible for the waters, but the waters do not belong to us, they still belong to decentralised administration. I could bring dozens of other examples. This cannot be done in any country in the world, no verticalization. It was a solid request. Unfortunately, that takes great change and right now I know that there are greater priorities, but it is one of the things that needs to be done at last, to see who is ruling this place and how we are planning, implementing and implementing. I shall mention something extremely important. People are confusing two issues. One thing is that water is common good and common means that it does not belong to anyone. Water is a natural resource such as air, it is common good, unlike the networks, which, as you mentioned at the moment, are in a bad state, which is a public good. I say public good and I am not talking about privatization - because these have also been heard - to privatise the networks for a very simple reason: I would only accept such a debate if I could choose a network from many networks and not be monopolistic, and only if these fixeds were not made by the state with its citizens' money. We all know that the private person who comes will come only to manage our own values. This touches the limits of irrationality. But it must be public networks for one more reason. It must be public about exactly what you said. There are two things our study says. He's talking about billing - invoicing. Charge - pricing means that if I take it on private criteria, I have to transfer it to the price, the invoice. But this very simply means that Thessaly probably shouldn't have produced goods. Because it would be so expensive for the cost of water if we wanted to transfer all the fixed values and facilities to the farmer, who would obviously have reached this price for the agricultural product, which we would have no chance of buying, with no chance, in Greece. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] So it is a political decision here to transfer and what percentage to transfer from cost to price. And to make this decision, we need to have the real costs, to minimise them - and that is what this study we have almost prepared - and, at the same time, to decide as a state: Do we want to support our agricultural production - that is the parallel programme - or the monetaristic ones - to charge them all the costs? Of course not. And this decision must be made, because we must support agricultural production, we must support the anhydrous regions and not say no matter what the water costs in Santorini, both the Santorini or anyone who comes to the island or elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, too. We go to the fifth under number 688/21-3-2016 a top-level question for the First Circuit of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kossilis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the maintenance of the twenty-seven workers of the Social Structures of Chalkida. Mr. Red has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you well know, this government's main priorities were to address the humanitarian crisis, already in January 2015, with the humanitarian crisis bill and then with the parallel programme. A great deal of work in dealing with the humanitarian crisis produces the social structures of the Ministry of Labour. Evia, namely Chalkida, is one of the areas most affected by poverty and unemployment. The Social Structures of Chalkida serve twenty - seven employees. The work they have done is admirable, as they succeeded in being 500% above the targets. However, while it has been operating since 2013, with two successive extensions it is up to 30-06-2016. So these workers, but also all the people and the people of Chalkida, are asking: Will these Social Structures continue? Will workers be paid for their jobs, where are they from November 2015? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u104	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u105	Thank you for your question. First you asked two questions. I will answer first for the payment of the workers. Because, of course, we are interested in paying the twenty-seven employees of Chalkida and then I will explain to you for your second question, unless you want me to take the time for the two questions you have asked. I don't know, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u106	It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u107	I'll answer once and for all, as you wish. First of all, I'm going to tell you about the payoff of the entrepreneurs. As you know, it was a ESDP project - you said it - which joined the Public Investment Programme, i.e. state money, from September to 31-12. So first of all, we had to make this transfer, that is, the integration and payment of workers for this period. For all poverty structures - as I have repeatedly said - from 31 September to 31 December we have secured 3 million to pay their employees. But this is a complex process, that is, when it passes, changing the way in which it is paid. And so the payment method had to be done as follows: First on 17-12-2015 we completed the integration of the project into the 2015 PPP. From there, we did this at the same time: because we knew that up to 30-06-2016 these structures will continue to work and will not yet be part of the new NSRF, we extended with another 6.5 million more from the Public Investment Program. What's happened to this day? On 5-2-2016, the request for funding was included in the Ministry of Economy for the new period. For two weeks the first instalment has been started for October - December 2015. This first instalment concerns 80% of the total amount, i.e. EUR 2,293,000. The money has been paid in twenty-one of the thirty-six operations, because the contractors had the supporting documents, and payments are expected to be completed in the next few years. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] One second tolerance, Mr President. Only one act of the thirty-seven has not provided the necessary supporting documents. In the structure to which you refer, under the name of the Evia Workers' Centre, the amount of 61,585 has already been paid on 15-3-2016 through the account held at the Bank of Greece by direct transfer of the amount entitled to a bank account credit. Following the accession of the National Bulletin to the EIF, the Office will again make 80% of the disbursements for the remainder of the period up to 30-6 2016. Therefore, next month, i.e. now, in April, 80% will be paid and in the second quarter of 2016. So this is my answer to the payment. Now I should also like to answer the second question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u108	The second was one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u109	What am I supposed to do now? I answer both questions once and for all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u110	Two questions?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u111	You didn't watch.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u112	My question had two legs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u113	The Member won't intervene anymore, he won't do any dentistship.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u114	Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u115	As you know, Mr Papoutsis, there were only five structures with twenty-seven workers throughout Evia and those in Chalkida in Evia. We redesigned the whole program for the whole county. Therefore, of the twenty-seven employees in Chalkida, we designed for Chalkida three structures with fifteen employees as a whole. However, in the adjoining municipalities such as Kymi, Alive, Istia, Ethiopia, Dirfyon - Messapion, Eretria, Karystos, Mandudi and Municipality of Skyros we designed a total of thirteen structures, i.e. six Community Centres, which are a new institution, and seven basic goods structures, which means that we designed in addition to the three other sixteen structures with forty-one employees. Thus, in the twenty-seven old of Chalkida, a forty-one worker and new structures are added for the whole prefecture. That is our policy, that we do not give them to a municipality and we leave them all. We planned, in consultation with the Regional Director, all these structures at the beginning and looked to equalise them to all the municipalities of Evia. This is social policy, not any municipality has ever seen the Lord. In this sense, the workers not only have a prospect of a greater pool, to submit their applications and qualifications with the new NSRP, but at the same time we will be looking at a premium for their previous work, so that in the new NSRP, which, as you know, is done with an ASP, as always is the case with the new NSRP, they have greater opportunities to provide their services throughout the Evia Prefecture, but at the same time, all the Evia Prefecture to enjoy these services, which are absolutely essential for a winter society. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u116	Thank you. The first question will be discussed by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on ensuring the smooth operation of children, infants and nurseries, as well as Creative Employment Centres (CDE) and Children with Disabilities (CDEA). Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, we are seven months after the start of the school year and the problems in children's schools, in nursery schools, in the CDIs and in the CDIs with children's LDIs have accumulated, mainly due to the high delay in the payment of funding from the specific programme financed, the programme: 'Harmonisation of family and working life'. Seven months are unpaid thousands of workers. No insurance contributions shall be paid by the entities of the municipalities and their legal persons. This is the first problem, followed by high fines for municipalities and legal persons. We had told you since the beginning of the summer that it was wrong the term that entered, that 30% were executed, and then they would get an advance or a first instalment. That is what caused the problems in particular. In many municipalities, however, we have to see that it is impossible to comply with the regulation, particularly the relationship established by the regulation on the working of children and nurseries between teachers and children. It's not kept. And is it not kept for what? Why you have not given the necessary funding or approval to work overtime, due to the well-known conversion of the eighth hour into an hour. Furthermore, I should like to tell you that especially in CSRs and CSRs for disabled children, which have been very successful since 1996, they are four hundred seventy-one CSRs and sixty-seven more for disabled children - the workers feel an insecurity and propose solutions. They have sent to you, by letter, on the 24th of the month and they are calling for the Ministry or the Ministers responsible finally to resolve the issue of stable and uninterrupted funding, for legislation or decisions to be taken in the direction of stabilising their employment relationship and strengthening structures in general. There are many problems that accumulate. The accumulation of problems really puts us in a new vicious circle. I will give you an example.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u119	I'm hanging up with this, Mr. President. You gave an extension to the validity of the authorisations of children and nurseries until 31-12-2016. This is a gift of free. Either you have to give it as long as the school year lasts or you don't give it at all. It's not because, when they come in the summer to apply, they won't be able. Madam Minister, if you do not resolve the issue of fines brought by the insurance funds, from the IKA in particular, to the municipalities and to legal persons, they will not have the next payment of tax information to collect the money. It is, in other words, a vicious circle and a solution must also be found to the issue of fines, of course in cooperation with your relevant colleague at the Ministry of Labour which IKA has. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u120	Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kegeroglu, you're probably the person responsible in this House, so you know very well that the NRP has changed from what you've run in the past period with the new NRP. And while the old action, namely the Thematic Objective 9, has had all its money in a sectoral programme, this has changed and there have been twenty-seven programmes. More specifically, it is thirteen regions in terms of people for the programmes of the MEDA - you have already referred to them - another thirteen for nurseries and an additional one from the EMEA. So where we had an act of accession, as you had, we now have twenty-seven. So this new regime, which defined the European project, the Partnership Agreement, the new ESDP, that is, the ETUC, has completely changed the landscape. That was the first. I must tell you that, while we found the money in time, which is a total of 176.5 million - the money from the three sources, as you know well, 49.2 million from the EMCDDA, 74.5 million from the FIFG, from these previous thirteen acts that I told you and the remaining 53 million from national resources - at the moment, a pre-contractual audit had to be carried out by the Court of Auditors for three thousand seventy-four total contracts. We signed three thousand seventy-four total contracts, for which pre-contractual checks had to be carried out. He completed it in December 2015. We must not, in other words, let it be understood that all this was not a clock. They worked a clock and we had to run this new program terribly, which we found in the middle. So I tell you, at the moment, that it was a European Union condition to disburse 30% and to complete 30% of all this - and you know it - compared to the 10% that you had in the previous NRP. [[At the point, the end of the speech bell is ringing by Mrs. Deputy Minister.]] Therefore, in order to pay the first instalment in January 2016, all the previous 30% of the programme should have been implemented. There was a slight delay, in fact, because of the many accession acts. However, at the moment, and through the Bank of Greece, payments began - early March -. The first instalment has been paid to the bodies that have sent documents for the EMCDDA and the first instalment of the MACs has been started, whose money has already been paid to the Bank of Greece. Therefore, applications for payment have been scheduled and will be made by the implementation body to the OPs and to the EMCDDA and all necessary actions for the second instalment are carried out. For the rest, I'll answer you immediately afterwards, unless you want me to answer both one and the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u122	Before I give the floor to Mr. Kegeroglou, I would like to inform the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the Hall "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", thirteen students and students and two teachers attending from the 20 Municipal School of Afantou Rhodes. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor. I would just ask that we stay in the time frames laid down in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, precisely because the framework was more complex, other solutions should be found for this year. For example, could it be paid by the Public Investment Programme? Could an advance be introduced from the Public Investment Programme? It could be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u124	It's established.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u125	So what do I want to say? That what you're saying is really bureaucratic matters, I don't deny it, but they're excuses between us. The unpaid worker and the municipality that ate a fine, because they did not get the money in time to pay the IKA, does not understand that. Therefore, it could also be planned from the Public Investment Programme for advance payments and payment. Of course he could. That is why we ask you: why didn't you do it? Why didn't you do that - this is the question - so that you could give a solution, given that these issues have, as I said, a chain effect?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u126	I'll answer everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u127	And, of course, the same applies to other programmes. Okay, about the subject you told me now, that it's a lot - it's true - the MAGPs etc. But, before that, on the issue of the poverty-sharing structures that you have discussed, which are national money, why are we so late there too? I heard. Why are we so late?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u128	And that's why I'm answering?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u129	You'll answer, Minister, in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u130	Why haven't you signed yet? After you complain, I have to tell you some things: you are not running on time. It is now March and the programming contract for 'Help at Home' has not yet been signed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u131	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u132	Put a question marker on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u133	Rightly, the workers, about five and a half thousand in these structures I mentioned, feel insecure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u134	But he can't say what he wants. That's another thing he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u135	Madam Minister, you have a plan that is meant to be for other programmes. But I am referring to the social programmes as a whole, which in the same way, unfortunately, you are dealing with them. That's what we're talking about. Enable above and take care of it. Workers have the issue of both their late payment and their insecurity with what you are announcing. You should ensure that they do not lose their jobs. They did not lose it the previous time with the stricter procedures that were in place and should not be lost either now. You said some thoughts before replying to my colleague...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u136	All right, Mr. Kegeroglu, you're done. Put a question marker on it. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u137	...and I hope you'll expand all procedures so that no job is lost and no worker is left without his job.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u138	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u139	Mr Kegerolgos, I have not mentioned at all the fact that this question, which has been made timely, and it was a regular question, which you submitted to the Ministry of the Interior, and which was fully answered, you have brought it here today as timely, because you know very well that this question has been answered by another ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u140	He hasn't answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u141	You did it again today for reasons of impression. Workers know very well that they never got paid on time. When I went to this ministry, I had thousands of employees, who had obviously received them from the poverty structures of you, who were not paid, such as the workers of "Children". Last year, they weren't paid. So something is happening, which either you know and you recognize these processes and you say it, or you just spit on the workers' back. It's okay. However, we have designed an RDP that did not provide twenty-seven employees in the Municipality of Chalkida and no one else throughout Evia, as you did. I just developed it before. And that's very important. Do you know what that means? It means that in each municipality there are social poverty structures of the new NSRF, designed by us, while before it was: "Whoever could see the Lord". That was the policy to date, Mr Kegeroglu. And in this policy, we completely overturned it because we believe that there are benefits in all municipalities and they were not just those who were ahead of us. So let it go if we've planned, we haven't planned, how well we do it and how quickly. And faster we are from you and widened and in equal terms, so that everyone can benefit from the money and not anyone who has ever made it. If you were to see the disparity with which the previous NRP was designed, that is, a municipality had all the structures and a side and nothing, absolutely nothing, you would understand the difference in the design of social policy and social protection. I say that the workers are secured and they know it. This is the first time all these safeguards have been made. Now, retrospectively, crocodile tears do not need, in my view. They really don't need it right now, when they know, first,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u142	All right, put on a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u143	I'm done. First, then, they're being paid right now. They know in detail all the workers in all structures what's going on. As for the workers in the anti-poverty structures, you know it's three thousand, you don't have to make them five, so we can hear it and say it. For the "Help at Home" workers: all the others are nine hundred, and we have received them with the new NRP, we will make them a thousand four hundred, if he tells you this to secure the jobs, for more work for all, for larger numbers as far as the beneficiaries are concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u144	Thank you. I would like to inform the House that due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Paul Polakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u146	What do you want now, Mr. Kegeroglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u147	The floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u148	But that's not what this is all about right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u149	How can it not be predicted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u150	It's not predictable! That's not what this is all about right now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u151	I expect you to give me the floor to substantiate the personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u152	Is the question personal, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u153	In this sense, Mr Kegeroglu, any questioner could prove a personal problem. Respect now...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u154	The Rules of Procedure for you to give me a minute to document the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u155	I will have to answer that later, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u156	I say, Mr Kegeroglu, that in this sense each question could substantiate a personal problem, because he is the one he is asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u157	If there was personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u158	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u159	The staff are the fact that the Minister, by saying untrue - to tell her kindly - accused me of asking the question, while all the workers are paid and there is no question. Look, he said the Home Office has answered the question completely. I would therefore refer you to the reply from the Ministry of the Interior, which tells me that another Ministry is responsible. This is the answer of the Ministry of Interior. So you'll get back that I'm doing it for reasons...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u160	I have the answer from the Ministry of Interior, and I'll testify now. That's not what he's saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u161	That's another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u162	I have the answer. I'll testify now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u163	So, Minister, while you had to come last week, you didn't come again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u164	I've answered why.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Kegeroglu,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u166	So the question is a long time ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u167	I have the answer from the Ministry of Interior and I'll testify to it. That's not what he's saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u168	Mr. Kegeroglu, listen to me. He said 'is answered' he did not say 'completely'. That's what he said. She's covering for you. The second question under number 686/21-32016 is the second question of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health, concerning the problems of the Emergency Department of the Rhodes Hospital, is not discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Pavlos Polakis. Also, the third with number 660/15-3-2016 topical question by MP Kavala of New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the reintroduction and restoration of the payroll subsidy under European regulations is not discussed due to the impediment of Minister Stathakis. The sixth question, under number 661/15-32016, is the second question of the Member of Parliament, Evros, New Democracy. Anastasios State, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the reintroduction and restoration of a payroll measure based on European regulations, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. Also, the fourth question under number 639/10-3-2016, on "Greek Sugar Industry", is not debated by the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Marcos Bolaris, as a result of the impediment of the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food. Also, for the same reason, the third question under number 689/21-3-2016 is not discussed, first question by the Member of Parliament for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Michael Jeleighs, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the recovery of agricultural aid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u169	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u170	What do you want, Mr. Jelloney?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, I would like to add to the question that has just been discussed, that I submitted a document in the Minutes, which shows that the specific question submitted by the three Members and then made timely, because - he says - I did not answer it, has been answered by the Ministry of the Interior and has not replied that it is unresponsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u172	Good, good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u173	In the end, the answer says that it is another Ministry responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u174	Please, is this a procedure? You're old MPs. Please! Mr. Jelloney, you only have the floor for a few seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u175	Thirty seconds, I'll need a minute. Unfortunately, the absence of the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development to answer the timely questioning procedure is not the individual thing, but it is the usual one on the part of the Ministry of Rural Development, and indeed on the issues of flaming and topical, as the Conference of Presidents has chosen to discuss, such as the future of the "Greek Sugar Industry" and the recovery of agricultural aid. I would like to say here - and I really call for the protection of Members of Parliament and Parliament and the procedure for parliamentary scrutiny - that the Bureau should adopt a position. It is not possible on major issues to contempt Greek farmers who are asking for information through this procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Jelloney, I heard you. The Bureau has repeatedly taken a position that the ministers and the relevant Deputy Ministers should come in. In this sense, every Member whose question is not answered would take the same time as he would have when his question was answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u177	I need a second to show you the unacceptable. I have been informed at least Thursday about one question, that it will not be discussed. The other question about the recoveries, they told me it was going to be discussed. And three hours before the debate, when I came from northern Greece - and I had no more parliamentary work - in honor of Parliament and of those who sent me here, I found that the ministers are absent. I was informed three hours ago! At least they must have the right to inform the Members in advance. They're talking about a workload coming up in about five!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u178	We will now discuss the first with number 685/21-3-2016 topical question by MP I Piraeus, New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, Minister for Health, on the need for health control of migrants and refugees entering our country. Mr. Katasfados, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u179	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, refugee and immigration are a problem that will be working for some time, apparently, for our country. It is a problem which, apart from social, economic and national, also has health. As you know, in Piraeus there are two hot spots. One is the handmade hot spot from the structures that the port of Piraeus itself had and there is the hot spot in Schistos. Bearing in mind the agony and insecurity of my fellow citizens in Piraeus - but I understand that the same agony exists to all Greek citizens - I wanted to ask you whether all these illegal immigrants and refugees, who enter our country, are subject to some health control in connection with transmitted diseases, namely, and all that, because, from what CEDEFOP has said - I would like to mention what CEDEFOP has said - the inhabitants of these countries, immigrants and refugees who come from Syria, Iraq, Bangladesh, Afghanistan, have an epidemiological profile of infections, which is completely different from what Europeans and Greeks have. I would also like to inform you that the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, the ECDC, has spoken on time for the fear of spreading diseases - such as scabs - and diseases transmitted by droplets or airborne diseases, due to poor living conditions and hypercoastalism in hot spots. However, the Hellenic Society of Infections at a recent press conference pointed out that there is a risk of rejuvenation of tuberculosis due to the very bad living and hygiene conditions of all these individuals and the easy transmission of this virus. On the occasion of all that I told you before and also taking into account the weather conditions, which will be quite different as it comes in the summer, I would like an answer to whether all these immigrants and refugees, who enter our country, are subject to some health control or whether there is a health profile for all of them, so that citizens also feel more security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u180	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u181	My dear colleague, this question, which is raised by you and by several media in this period in our country, has largely been answered by the international scientific community. It has been documented by both the World Health Organisation and the ECDC, which you mentioned, that the epidemiological profile of this period of immigration and refugee flows is the profile of healthy immigrant. In no way is the image of a health bomb, which threatens public health in our country or in any other country that is receiving refugees. These people are basically a healthy population. Of course, they are afflicted by travel and bad living conditions. Today, most of them, 40% now, are children and 22% are women. The diseases, which occur during their stay in the country, are community diseases. Respiratory infections exist, gastrointestinal infections, dermatological diseases and injuries. These are the main categories of illness. Of course, there are also populations with special problems, such as pregnant women and incubators, especially the very small children, and even infants and infants, who are currently living in our country. I believe that the major problem is the poor living conditions, housing, nutrition and, of course, individual hygiene, which in some areas these refugees are hosted are problematic, as they are mainly in Idomeni. In other open hospitality structures and in other camps these conditions are much more dignified and I think that the effort that must be made to invest - if you want - in public health is precisely to improve these conditions. This is the most important deterrent. During their stay in our country, there are cases of infections to which I referred earlier, and sporadic cases of communicable diseases. This is why there is a mechanism mainly from the CEDEFOP, which is responsible for direct intervention, epidemiological surveillance and information from the National Centre for Health, the EMCDDA, which has overall coordination of health activities throughout the country. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] There is a mechanism that has been set up, with the help of the human resources of public health structures, health centres and hospitals, especially at the point of first entry, but also in the areas where there are camps that house thousands of people, as some of them are forced to go through for smaller or more serious health problems in neighbouring public structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u182	Minister, you have your second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u183	I shall conclude, Mr President. Also, there is the assistance of the Armed Forces health personnel, which plays a catalytic role in having constant health care in the camps, especially in northern Greece. There is the assistance of the non-governmental organisations, the certified humanitarian organisations, which have been acting in the field for too long, and of course of the fellow citizens, the medical and pharmaceutical associations that are active, of society in general, which has been extremely reflexive at present. I therefore think that the problem of immigrants' health care is manageable and we really want to tell the citizens of our country that there are no major risk factors for public health. There are problems that we must be alert to. The conditions for the co-existence of thousands of people always create favorable ground for infectious diseases. I believe, however, that with the experience we have and the ongoing surveillance of infections, carried out through the CEDEFOP, there is no such risk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u184	Do you have a further question, Mr. Katasfados?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u185	I want to get a second. Minister, under no circumstances was I able to cause a climate of panic to our fellow citizens. I just want to prevent any situations that may develop negatively. I would like to inform you in this respect: I see that at least as far as Piraeus is concerned, the state is shining in its absence. Today there are five thousand three hundred people in Piraeus. The presence of CDC is exhausted in a van, with a pediatrician from 9 a.m. to 12 a.m. in the morning. Also, there's an AEMY trailer with a doctor from 8:00 to 12:00. This is the state presence. From there on, there is a Red Cross doctor from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m., a caravan from the "Smiling of the Child", with a doctor from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m. and a trailer from the Piraeus Medical Association with a doctor from 8 a.m. to 20 a.m. and a doctor from 20 a.m. to 0.00' evening from the "Doctors of the World". Let me also inform you that there are only ten toilets in the stone warehouse and ten more at gate E2. So there are a total of twenty toilets and a week ago there were another thirty chemical toilets. So you understand that the conditions prevailing in Piraeus are very special. I will also inform you that there are complaints that 40% of Afghans in Shhsto - because two and a half thousand in Shhsto are in their overwhelming majority of Afghan citizens - they have fish. All of this, with an open hot spot, to be able to turn people around and there is the serious risk of an epidemic coming up, they give thought to the world. So the presence of the state is not the anticipated or the one that should be, but the rest of the structures. We were witnesses, we saw in Idomen that she recently gave birth to a woman in a scene. I'm not coming to blame the government, Minister. I come here to prevent situations, as I told you, and to see how quickly we can create a climate and conditions such as this, so that the refugees and immigrants are safe, and the Greek population is also living in those areas. Honestly, then, I'm telling you that the situation in Piraeus is terrible because, as you can see, there is a battle for who's going to get into the toilets. Whether they're taking a bath, we're not talking about it. They're diving into the sea. You saw these things. Because it comes in the summer and is rising and the temperature is greater the risk of some epidemics. So I draw attention to you, and I tell you that the presence of the state in what it has to do with the port of Piraeus is exhausted to a pediatrician from CEDEFOP and to a doctor from AEMY who is there from 8:00 ́ until 12:00 ́. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u186	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u187	My dear colleague, to be aware of what is happening in our country, I note that we have the greatest refugee and migration wave after World War II. Last year, eight hundred and fifty thousand people passed through our country and this year, another hundred fifty thousand have come from 1-1-2016. This is a huge challenge, which obviously cannot be handled by a European country alone, no matter how well organized it is. Always in such times of major humanitarian crises, the states, even the most organized, appear to be inadequate and inadequate. That is why we need to help all these non-governmental organisations, the people of solidarity, which is excellent. We have a huge dowry of humanity and solidarity right now in our country. The behaviour of the ordinary people, who have opened up their homes, have taken care of, and of course have covered, if you like, inadequacies that the central state is forced to display. We, therefore, first of all, have strengthened public structures on the first-hand islands. We have received a European programme of EUR 3.3 million. We hired a hundred and forty doctors, rescuers and nurses. We have strengthened public structures on nine islands. This is what we are now organising, in order to have a stable health presence, state, in all the hospitality structures developed throughout Greece. This was done within a very short period of time. The contribution of the Armed Forces, however, is critical and catalytic and the support of the public structures, too. The EKRD, my dear colleague, is a state agency and is present in all public structures. It crosses all incidents, has a 24-hour presence both in Piraeus and in Greek and in Idomeni and in all centres with a lot of population, especially in northern Greece. It is, of course, the AEMY, which you rightly said is present in Piraeus. It's a public health unit. It is also the CERVO, which is the epidemiological arm, if you like, of the Ministry, and it is, of course, the CERVO that has the general coordination. There are too many volunteers from all layers and from all healthcare providers whose contribution is catalytic. I am not saying that we are pleased with this intervention, but I think that with the synergy - because this is the issue - of all these individual places and the central coordination that is being imposed, I think we can safely give the feeling that the health side of the refugee problem is the least worrying side. Where emphasis needs to be placed on improving - and you are rightly insisting on this - the conditions of life, living, food and, of course, individual hygiene of these people. This is the best prevention intervention for any public health problems. I therefore believe that there is a need for constant monitoring in this part. We have no desire to look at the situation. The public health system and its human resources have been greatly aggravated. I have a personal image, too. I've been to Idomen recently. I visited Kilkis Hospital, Polykastro Health Center. I know very well how pressed human resources have been and how much it is necessary to support, support and, of course, to improve the supply of hospitals and their coverage with health material and medicines. We are moving in this direction, and I think there will be no serious problem, which will not be managed in the next few years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The fifth will be discussed under number 670/153/2016 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the reconstructing of the Labour Housing and Workshop Organisations. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is well known that in 2012 with the second memorandum, among the other conquests that were abolished at the time, we had also abolished the Labour Housing and Labour Housing Organization. The closure of the agencies was a heavy blow to the beneficiaries and workers, as a number of benefits were abolished and, in particular, construction work, Mr Minister, was the most important programme that could offer cheap and quality housing to workers and to the people's families. In particular, the granting of interest-free loans from OEC funds for multi-purpose and other categories of workers has, of course, been abolished. The loans for the completion and repair of residential dwellings which were indifferent from OEC funds and the grant of the rent were also abolished. They were also abolished, Minister, several benefits provided by the Labour Housing Agency, such as theatre cards, books and others. Social tourism programs returned two years later to beneficiaries and in days, excluding thousands of workers and pensioners. Respectively, Minister, there are major gaps and a lack of workers, particularly in teaching, and a considerable reduction in the number of infants and infants in relation to the stock-raising capacity available. You will know very well that the jobs are enough despite the high demand for day-to-day kindergartens. We ask you, Minister: what measures will you take? Does your Government, like 2012, insist on reconstituting the Agency with all its responsibilities? What measures will you take to start and strengthen the construction programme, start all the programmes that have been abolished, broaden social tourism programmes, fill gaps in nurseries with the corresponding provision of workers? We want your answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Mrs. Antonopoulou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u191	Mr Katsotis, thank you for your question. Because you have a lot of questions, I will try to answer them within the next three minutes and I may have to go on with secondary. Firstly, to reconstitute the OEC and the Labour Housing Organisations, as you know, on 18 April 2013, with L.4144 and in particular Article 35, OAED became a universal successor and was assigned to it all the rights and obligations of the two desolated bodies. So there is a follow-up - with a gap, of course, created - in the work that the agencies were doing and, at the moment we are talking about, there is no question of reconstructing them. Their work continues with the OAED. Let me now refer to the new and old construction work of the OEC. For about three years, the OAED has been exercising the powers, as I have said, of the two demolished bodies, apart from the new construction work. This exemption is a Memorandum of Understanding, as you know, and for the time being it cannot be disqualified. This commitment is legally effective. However, let us not forget the following. The OAED continues the construction work of the former OEC, which had remained incomplete during its abolition. In some cases it was extremely problematic, as you know. When we talk about the continuation of the OEC's construction work, we know that we are talking about some fifteen semi-finished works on natural objects, of which OAS managed to complete about ten at a faster rate than the former OEC. I would also like to point out that, for beneficiaries of the former OEC, who are unemployed and who have been granted loans for the completion, extension and reform of the sites, we are at the moment promoting a retroactive adjustment of their dues from 1-1-2011 and after the cancellation of the interest on late payment. As far as the social tourism programme, as you know, provides for a 10 million-dollar expenditure and the budget that will continue to be drawn up for the year 2016-2017 cannot exceed this threshold, due to commitments from the 2013-2016 Financial Strategy Framework. I should like to say and point out that in islands, which may be affected by the traffic of the main points due to the influx of refugees, such as Lesvos, Chios, Samos, Leros and Kos, it is necessary to strengthen them, through the enlargement of the Social Tourism Programme, and move forward in this direction. I want to reply very soon to the nurseries too, if I may. What I would like to say is that today there are and can be hosted - from the livestock side - about two thousand sixty babies and toddlers, while at the moment only a thousand thirty-three are hosted. As far as your question is concerned, the way in which the lack of staff gaps will be covered, with a view to covering the building capacity of stations, is already in the process of proposing legislation on the possibility of recruiting teaching staff under contracts of employment in accordance with the existing provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u192	Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u193	Madam Minister, I think that this answer makes the world of work even more sad and continues to pay for its contribution to the CEC. It is a worker's only contribution, as employers have been relieved. Now, at the moment, they are tabled, they belong to the Agency of 320 million. Construction has stopped. As you said, it will not go on until the work that was done by the Agency has been completed. But the needs for people's housing are very great. On the one hand, you cannot say that the development machine must be put forward and on the other hand, you, as a government, in this area of popular housing, agree to stop the Agency's construction work. I think that the Agency has highly qualified staff. It has plots of five million square meters in and out of the settlements. Many of them are considered ‘fillets’. Indeed, there could be a construction project of this kind which would provide the right-wing people with their homes. Apart from that, Minister, there are today two hundred and twenty houses of the Agency indisposed. I think you know that too. There can be no two hundred twenty houses paid by the working class through its contributions and today remain indisposed. You know very well that without their maintenance, without someone inside, these houses will be damaged. Madam Secretary, you said about nursery stations. They are twenty-four, indeed, the kind of kindergarten that they are currently working on. Indeed, today there are a thousand three hundred children, and they could be two thousand. Two thousand sixty-five, you said. We won't disagree about that. You say that by law, workers will be hired. There is today the way to be hired for eleven months. It is planned and you have not done so far and, unfortunately, almost a thousand children are now lacking in a child-care station, like, of course, the workers who could be recruited to cover these existing stations. Also, Minister, there are four stations in place which do not work. And these were done with the employee contributions. They don't work because, indeed, there are no staff hires. Finally, Minister, we would like to say that we strongly disagree with your view that we cannot overcome the Memorandum of Understanding and continue the Agency's construction work. It is the most important issue that should go ahead at the moment. We believe that the working class within its demands, within its claims, will raise this issue more strongly, because it is necessary. As you know, with the information you have, we have too many homeless, we have too many people in the rent, too many who cannot respond today, if you like, to the cover of the accommodation itself. We believe that this sector, the construction sector, should go ahead and the working class should claim the construction work, the reconstituting of the Agency. Because you say the OAED has taken responsibility. However, the OAED has not yet made any progress, Minister, beyond the concessions it has given these beneficiaries, beyond the completion of certain projects. The rest, which was the responsibility of the other institutions, is outside the activity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u194	Mrs Antonopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u195	It is understandable, I imagine, that the issue of housing policy in general and the question of homeless housing, the use of existing buildings, homes, etc., is very important and concerns our Ministry and OAED. Of course it's in the issues that take priority for us. However, I would like to say that, as far as concessions are concerned, we are moving forward. As regards the completion of these dwellings - as I have said before - which are pending before a new cycle begins and beyond the Memorandum of Understanding we have to complete what was launched and not completed. So in that direction we are moving. As far as the issue you mentioned about nurseries is concerned, I told you before that it is regulated so that they can be recruited, in accordance with the law, which is not just temporary. Otherwise, I would like to assure you that the system, the issue of the commitments made by the OAED to both these agencies and the acceleration of governmental work on these obligations, is still a priority for our ministry. And as I have said to a previous similar question, we are completing a process and an overall proposal for these two agencies - for the OSCE now, just as the OAED has undertaken - which we will table for discussion and consultation very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u196	However, construction operator, Minister, only Greece and Latvia do not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u197	And we thank the Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-28-S1-commons.u198	With the consent of the House at 20.42' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, 29 March 2016 at 19.00, on the subject of the proceedings of the House: a pre-dated debate, in accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, at the initiative of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, at the level of parties, on developments in the field of justice, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
