ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 3-3-2016, the minutes of its PRACTICAL Sessions of Thursday 3 March 2016, with regard to the resolution as a whole: ‘Deposit guarantee schemes (incorporation of Directive 2014/49/EU), Deposit Guarantee Fund and other provisions’.]] Before entering the debate on the topical and urgent questions, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Monday's Question Time of 7 March 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 606/1-32016 by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Prussias Prussias, to the Minister of Health, on the need for a direct staffing of the Xanthi Hospital's radiodiagnostic clinic. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food about the additional works of the Bramian Hierapetra dam. 3. The Question No 610/1-32016 by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Pafili to the Ministers for Environment and Energy and Finance concerning the privatisation plans of the company "LARCO" and the safeguarding of the jobs of its employees. 4. The Question No 605/1-32016 by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the recovery of HICP by the spouse of bankruptcy with regard to the properties of his management being supervised. 5. The Question No 596/29-2-2016 by the Deputy of Attica of the Union of Centres Mr Dimitrios Kavalellas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the lack of measures to protect the waters against nitrates. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 607/1-32016 by MP Magnesia of the New Democracy, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the National Accreditation System (E.S.D.). 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Mr. Andreas Loverdos asked the Minister of Finance about the bonds of natural persons. 3. The Question No 611/1-32016 by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the working conditions of professional drivers in land transport and the acute problems in the industry. 4. Under number 577/23-2-2016, a topical question by MP Elias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gerasimios Balaoura to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the delay in tabling a bill on regulating the residence permit and work of illegally staying migrant workers. 5. The No. 575/23-2-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Finance regarding the repayment of loans granted to ND and PASOK parties. 6. The No 566/22-2-2016 topical question by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios Prussias, Minister of Culture and Sport, on the emergence of the "Samothraki Victory" as a pan-European symbol. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by Mr Andreas Katsaniotis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction regarding the imposition of municipal fees by the Municipality of Patras on professional establishments in the area by decision of the municipal council. 8. The Question No 466/1-2-2016 by Mr. Attica of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiari to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the "millions shared by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to the bankrupt parties". 9. The question by No. 548/16-2-2016 was raised by MP B' Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Georgios Germenis to the Minister of Finance, on the "sales of the Star Bulk from the TEAD". 10. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance about the progress of the projects for the development of the former airport of Greece. 11. The question by No 429/19-1-2016 of the Athens MP, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the resolution of the "SAPIS" Group's problem and the determination of the time schedule for the payment of the compensation to the beneficiaries. B. REFERENCES - Questions (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 745/38/2-11-2015 - an application for the submission of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the stay of Mr Kim Glen as Prime Minister. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance about the reduction of charges on the use of plastic money and transactions via e-banking. 3. The question asked by MP B' Athens, George Amyras, to the Minister of Finance, regarding the procurement of banks for the interbank transfers and the use of cards. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question under number 600/1-32016 will be discussed with the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the termination of the operation of the North Aegean DISCOUNT and the restoration of cultural activity in a sensitive region of Greece. Mrs Vaguea's timely question will be answered by the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr Aristides Baltas. Mrs Vaguea, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u2	First of all, thank you, Minister, for responding directly to this question. Although it seems detail, it's not because in my opinion God is in detail. Perhaps one wonders that I, a Member of the Larisa Prefecture, deal with an issue of the northern Aegean, Chios. But if anyone were a little more aware of my history, he would understand this interest, because, as some people know, we founded - not alone - with many important people of art, in 1975 the Thessaic Theatre, which was the protagonist, the protagonist, and the idea of following in 1983, to be created by the late Melina Mercouri and George Gennimata, the local regional theaters. So it explains my particular interest in this institution. This institution has offered many things to the creation, decentralisation and vitality of the cities and areas in which these theatres were founded. The North Aegean - unfortunately - in Chios, which has had a long and good history, seems that the municipality in recent years does not want, fail or want to support it. So, basically, his operation has stopped and I asked for the municipality's intention. The pretext is, there are earlier management debts, which are large amounts, mainly in insurance funds and which are now asking for additional grants from the Ministry of Culture to be paid by the Ministry of Culture so that they can continue to operate. I think that in the difficult economic situation we are - you know that better than I do - it is not possible to grant this theatre any more. So it is the responsibility of the Municipality of Chios to decide whether he wants to keep this theatre in his town and in his area. Otherwise, in my opinion, another seat, another island of the Aegean, should be found, because this sensitive area without a municipal theater should not be left.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Baguea. Mr Aristides Baltas has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mrs Bagena, for these are useful questions to understand where we are and how we are going. You are right that there is a reluctance of the Municipality of Chios about the maintenance and operation of the North Aegean DISTRIBUTION. We signed at the end of November, after a long delay in the municipality, the grant. It was impossible for the well-known procedures of the government's accounting system to go to the previous year and we are pushing to send us the programming contract with the new year to move forward. Indeed, there seems to be reluctance for the operation of the DUTY there. We are open to changing seat so at least temporarily there is a theatrical quality organization in the northern Aegean. I do not hide from you that I like the question, because it is precisely the question of the PPC as a whole. There is, as you quite rightly say, an important institution, starting with Larissa, which in many provincial cities has bloomed and helped greatly in theatrical education and the well-known entertainment of citizens. We want to see this all over again. We want to see this again with regard to the municipalities, with regard to the regions, understand how the minimum money we can make available to make better and more use of possible synergies, with possible mergers where needed and so on. We didn't have the time to see it systematically, but it's one of our first concerns from now on to see the whole institution of PICKI. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Bagena has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u6	We agree with the Minister on PPC issues. I mean, we've done an important job, as an EDUCE of culture, around the DIFF. We have all the evidence, and we have to look at it. The institution must be reviewed. It has been thirty years, and it is an opportunity to talk about it more generally. We need to see each area separately, with its specific features, Minister. We must not, in my view, legislate horizontally, because each region has the peculiarities and local communities make a great contribution to this, and we must take into account their opinion. Also, as the economic situation is shaped, I believe that the PPC is a matter for the municipalities and regions in particular. The regions, by name, typically participate in the programming contracts. They don't actually give money, they don't help. They are entitled 'democratic regional theatres', which means that the regions must also take responsibility, not just the name. So we should soon see the whole institution. Now, with regard to the North Aegean PPC - these islands that are being tested at the moment by the refugee crisis, the islands of the northern Aegean - I believe that we should not neglect these issues of culture that, as I have said in my prototype, seem to be details, but it is not because there is the life of the permanent inhabitants, which we should not in any way ignore. We must not stop normality, we must barely strengthen the normality of the lives of the locals, of the people there. The south Aegean PIC which had been based in Rhodes, unfortunately, has been closed for two years. Therefore, the Aegean will remain without a municipal theatre, if the PPC of Chios closes. I took the initiative - I hope you will agree - if I speak by phone with the Mayor of Lesvos. He seems willing to accept the seat of the PICKI. Of course, the formal proposal and the whole initiative must be made by you. We are waiting for this initiative and the Mayor of Lesvos is waiting for it, so that we can see where the seat of the North Aegean DINGO will finally take place. Our concern is not to close down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Baguea. The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u8	In essence, I have nothing to add. I fully agree with the importance of PPC to the whole of the islands of the northern Aegean, especially in the present circumstances. We are very willing to discuss the transfer of the seat to Lesvos or Samos, or where the municipalities think, and how the municipalities themselves can cooperate and propose a solution of this kind. I also fully agree that theatrical education and artistic education in general or artistic production at this time, with the refugee flows and the great turmoil that is taking place throughout the region, is a key element in dealing with not just humanitarian but at a deeper level, the situation that is currently going on in that region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. That concludes the question. The second time under number 594/29-2-2016, the first-round question of the New Democracy Parliamentary Serres Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister for Health, on the draft merger - abolishing units of the Primary Care for Health, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The third, with number 598/29-2-2016, is a top-level question for Congressman II Piraeus Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Lagossou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, about “growth of tension and the methods of the Turkish consulate in Thrace”, not discussed due to lack of responsibility. The fourth under number 602/1-32016 topical question for the F' Vice President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of National Defence, on the impoverishment of refugees - non-legislative immigrants in Kastelorizo, will not be debated as a result of an impediment by the Minister. The fifth question under number 608/1-32016 of the First Cycle of the Greek Communist Party MP Iraklios Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks concerning compensation for the officials involved in the organisation, support and conduct of the tests of qualifications and behaviour of the candidates will not be discussed due to lack of competence. We enter the sixth question under number 603/1-32016. First question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Independent Greeks, Athanasios Papachristopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning delays in the extradition of the pensions of IKA. The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor to develop his question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. The last thing I have, my Minister, is opposition and I want you to believe me about it. I have in front of me the question of a British retired British woman, 'When I ‘ll be paid?' And the answer - I will not read it in English, I will read it in English - is from the English investment magazine in Britain, where its service is almost apologies that it cannot pay the next day for making its request, but it needs to wait on the first day of public payments, i.e. six days. And it apologizes for this thing the English public in the British asking when she's going to get her pension. Why am I saying it? I'm not ethers or I don't think that can be done in a few days. From this point on, however, until we arrive, my Minister, in the event some people will be able to fill three and a half years from the day they have left their service, I think it touches the limits of exaggeration. And here I want to tell you one thing. I'm the last person I don't know in what state the country is. We're talking about three hundred and thirty thousand applications that are over 3.5 billion. And if the reason really was that "children, you know, we have inherited forty years looting and we don't have money", I wouldn't ask at all. But, in front of me, I have the evidence that many workers' clubs give. And I tell you this, Minister. Three hundred and thirty thousand applications are not just the IKA, but they are all the funds in it. But I am bringing an example of the IKA. I've got them all together. In IKA Patisia - let us say - they are eight thousand applications, they are four employees and they reach three and a half years. At the IKA of Saints Anargyros there are seven employees with fifteen and a half thousand applications and up to three and a half years. In Alexandra IKA are four employees with seven and a half thousand applications and reach three and a half years. At IKA Amarousio are six employees with nine thousand applications and reach three and a half years. But I want to be fair. There are also IKAs, such as Ilioupoli and Peristeri, which within six to eight months give the pension. And there's better IKA. For example, in Trikala and Kalamata they give it within three or four months. This, in just Greek, means that it's not just a lack of money. They stress - and I believe them - that it is mainly the lack of proper adaptation to new technologies. It is incomprehensible that the funds should be consulted by letters and mail. Mostly, however, it is a lack of staff. It's very important. And I don't think I have any more sensitivity than you and I say again that I don't want in my CV to have many such questions. It's a scream of agony because I have contact with people who tell me I'm going to die and don't get my pension. I'll say a few things in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u11	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u12	To finish my question. Do we have the possibility, where these huge gaps exist, of transferring officials from another public service? We're talking about two or three employees.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u13	Good. Don't expand any more, Mr. Papachristopoulos. First the Minister answer and then you'll tell your dentistry. The Deputy Minister, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papachristopoulos, and the extent of your question, as you have developed it, shows your sensitivity and anxiety, which are also known from the struggles you have made on social issues. So we have the same sensitivity. Mr Papachristoulou, it is not a question of transferring staff to a system which, even if you are transferring officials, will not, as you have already said, be able to operate, according to the standards that you have explained, for example the United Kingdom. This is because we have a system with the existing structures, with the existing systems for calculating benefits, so complex, so dashing, that even if you add employees, they will not respond to the validity and time-consuming performance of obligations that the system should give and respond immediately, as you have rightly said. The solution will be found in the insurance reform, Mr Papachristopoulos. The insurance reform we are promoting will be an exemplary case of public service to the benefit of the Greek people. It will be one, not only rapidly fulfilling the obligations and correct in assessing it, but also with the sensitivity it must have, in particular, a social security system expressing in its operation. You know thousands of people's tails at midnight in the IKA waiting for service. They are images that were constantly repeated in the past, but all these numbers to which you mentioned and are correct will be a past. They will be a past, since indeed all of us, both the social actors and the representatives of the insured and the workers themselves in the insurance funds and, above all, the Skills and the Opposition Groups in this Parliament, see that in these conditions of the humanitarian crisis that characterise our country, we must at last put things in order, to deal with, as we have had to deal with, such top issues as social security, which is a reason for a society, a reason for organising a society in order to be able to meet the needs of the citizens. At the moment, we have neither a system nor a social security system. Therefore, the problem will not be solved by transporting officials to enable them to respond, because even so they will not respond. It is also not the question of whether there is money to pay these pensions. This is an issue which is very easy to deal with with with with a true, honest attitude to the real needs. The insured has no problem getting a temporary pension for a short time. He has a problem not getting a pension, waiting for three or four years, which is now happening or receiving a temporary pension for four and five years, which is now happening. Therefore, the precise assessment of the country's potential and the fair distribution of benefits to everyone is something in which the Greek people agree to exist, as long as it is done in terms of justice and without a rehearsal on the basis of customer relations in favour of some and at the expense of others.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u16	The Minister's answer is honest. I'm a man you know very well that I'm fighting for insurance reform. I also believe that under the conditions under which it is made it is a heroic effort. For years the Left has asked for a fund - we do not discuss this - which will save both time and employees and so on. However, I would like to ask you and to commit to this, Minister: This transitional period, until application, how long will it last? You know, it's very important for some, especially for extreme cases. I'm telling you, for example, about the CSAY, about my fund, without wanting to bless my beards, where the waiting is thirty three months. Until it is implemented - and I agree with you and I am next to you - in this transitional period, is there anything less to be done about the extreme cases of people who have submitted their papers in 2012, Minister, and is currently waiting to be retired? Otherwise, I am covered by your answer. I am not asking the question - and I say again - for opposition reasons. I believe it and I wanted to hear it. And one last question. ‘When the insurance passes, will the FEK have effect from or retroactive effect as from 1 January 2016? If you want, you answer that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Before you answer, Mr. Theonas, because he's been through this post...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u18	It's a huge experience.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u19	Yeah, by way of derogation, we'll give him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u20	It's all right, it's a matter of substance. It's a great pleasure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would just like to say an idea, which has concerned me with as short a time as possible, of course, I was in the administration of the IKA. What is needed at the same time or at the same time as reforming the insurance system is the computerization of the insurance history of all the insured IKAs, say from 1980 onwards, so that all the data are processed electronically and do not consume any time in calculating pensions and all the other issues that need to be calculated. I think it's a great project, and it needs to be done. I had charged it to myself, but I didn't stay long to be able to push it forward. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u22	Nektarios didn't do it with the red man on the spot.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Theonas. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papachristopoulos and honourable Members, we have moved on a titanium leap in a long time. We have already prepared, to a very large extent, applications that go ahead. I believe that in March we will be happy to announce applications which will first of all be implemented in the Free Professional Insurance Agency, because I had the luck of being commander of the OSH there to go forward with my short term of four-five months of work, which will be a model for all social security providers, where every insured person will see all about his own insurance situation. Everything. To pay even his insurance contributions and a number of topics which make it possible to pay contributions, without becoming a contributor, because as you know, even if a euro was missing, when the insured person paid the contribution, he was losing his awareness. These are amazing things happening and happening. It is because of what you have said, and the former commander of IKA and now a member of the SYRIZA, said that in today's technological revolution, at least at the level of computerisation, the country has been giving solutions to these issues - so many years, the logic of Psorocostanina, rather than in a very simple way of dealing with these problems. That's what we're organizing. That's social security. The question of money will be the least costly social investment for the country's fate in what we do. This reform will really remain in history as a revolutionary intersection with the least cost and the greatest possible social benefit. And we have to do it and we will do it and it will prove, because it is our duty, the obligation of the SYRIZA - Independent Greeks, to show that there is another way for this country to live. And if we do not manage to save money in order to make people's lives richer, because this depends on a number of factors and outside and outside our own intention, what we will achieve and is our own, is to organise in a way that really serves the citizen, a system that operates in a way of e-service, without even having to go to the places where social security institutions are located. We have a huge staff deficit - 1/3 of the employees from IKA in the last four years, it is about three and a half thousand people left the IKA who left without completing the void created - and we have a huge problem waiting for people to be served in pension, which really many of them unwisely end their lives before well - good time to retire. We're going to solve this problem. We are already facing very sensitive cases, where some for the sake of social needs must have the service we should provide, such as people with special needs, with urgent needs. From a serious pressure on their own needs, they must have the priority, and under no circumstances must there be the service that exists in certain cases, where, for other reasons, some must take precedence when they do not have that right. It ends this, and above all it ends with the system that we introduce. I look forward to and call again on this question, because it is a top issue for the country, and at last the political forces are responsible to rely on the plan that we have introduced, to correct it, if it is possible for corrections and where it is possible for corrections, but to adopt it as a national purpose. It is an obligation and we cannot in these circumstances see political forces still firing tensions and narrating the country's effort, as we express it. If they have anything else to say, let them say it. We are ready and very quickly to complete the legislative work of our bill. We call on the scientific bodies to come to the conclusion of the agreement in the national field too, to deal successfully with the negotiation process with lenders. There is an obligation here for everyone and they must at last meet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u25	Thanks to the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. Petropoulos. The first under number 595/29-2-2016 topical question of the second question of the New Democracy MP Christos Boukokorous to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the rental of forest firefighting helicopters, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The second, with number 599/1-32016, is a topical question of the Attica Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on redundancies in the Greek Defence Systems (ESA), will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The third, with No. 609/1-32016, question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Dellis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the dismissal of a trade union worker in the chain of coffee shops "MIKEL - COFFEE COMPANY" in Drama, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. The fourth question will be discussed under number 604/1-32016 by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance concerning the extension of the car withdrawal measure. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Tree Alexiadis. Mr. Kammene, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. I'll see you again. Parliamentary control also brings some news. We are here today to discuss the issue of the withdrawal of cars. Questions are clear. We would not like and this government should not withdraw the withdrawal measure. The measure of the withdrawal of cars is a measure that has helped the Greek economy very much, the automobile market, car dealers, too many inter-professional professions. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. There are problems in customs with cars that have remained there. The information is said for two to six thousand cars, which are locked up and waiting for an extension of the withdrawal measure. At the same time, as you and I are aware very well, the common sense of economic and economic policy, the costs are borne by businesses, wages, currents, fees and loans. It should therefore not freeze the withdrawal measure. We'd like a briefing from you. When I'm second, I'll say some other things and I'll rely on your answer. You ask yourself, Minister: What is the official position of the Ministry of Finance concerning the extension or not of the withdrawal of cars? Is it true that the Ministry of Finance is positive for another extension of a relevant provision, yet the lenders object to the effectiveness and integrity of the measure? Finally, when is a definitive answer expected to be given to this issue in order for our fellow citizens to know whether they can withdraw their car and unlock the process that keeps them reluctant to buy a new car? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. The reason for this is the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Treasury Alexiadis, to answer the Member's current question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, Mr Papoutsis, you raise a very serious issue which concerns a large sector of our economy. It also employs the automobile trade sector and insurance companies and the automobile repair industry and their own citizens. It also concerns us in the Ministry of Finance, because when we don't have car sales, we don't have any revenue. For a large part of the sale price for each car - good or bad - is charged with tax obligations. But when there are no sales, we don't have any revenue. We are very concerned about this. I say, then, clearly, that I think that this is the end of the negotiation, and very soon we will bring the relevant provision to the House, with which we will resolve this problem. I cannot at this moment commit to time and time, but this problem will be solved. Because this cannot continue. I'm sure there's a long delay. There is a long delay, not just in this. There are other issues. There is in tax statements and other bills. We are doing everything we can and we are pressing for things to go ahead, but the political and economic context and the issues of negotiation are also clear. On the matter of withdrawal, it was indeed a measure that started in 2011. It is a tax incentive with a reduced registration fee for new cars with specific conditions, which enables cars to be withdrawn from the traffic that are polluting and old technology, to go for destruction and replaced with new cars. It is therefore a measure that has a specific environmental and ecological content, but, of course, it also has a serious economic content for both the citizens and the Ministry of Finance. This measure was applied, as you know, to new passenger cars up to two thousand cubic centimeters and to new trucks up to three and a half tons. That was the objective, because these concern, in particular, the low and medium-sized income classes and low incomes. It certainly stimulated the automobile market. And here I say clearly that this measure should have been dealt with legally before the date even expires. Unfortunately, from the problems you know they exist, they were unable to deal with them. I think that very promptly this provision will come and solve this problem, and I hope so for all the other issues we have openly on tax issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kammene, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Minister. I think it is a good news that your coming and your answer to my question and to the market for both the citizens and the direct and indirect income - if you like - of our economy, as regards the withdrawal of cars. This specific measure is a key incentive for GDP growth, whatever view one sees. I would like to say some statistics to be made known and recorded. Based on the data of the Car Importer Association by the end of 2015 - from February 2010 when the withdrawal started - it has led to the removal of four hundred and fifty thousand low weight passenger cars. That means, as you quite rightly said, that the ecological footprint is very important. Pollution has declined too much and beyond the direct economic benefits we should always see the benefits to the environment. However, let us not forget that in a society which has been tortured over the past five years by economic closeness and unemployment, the measure should continue. You have to keep giving the motive. Because the benefit in the car of up to two thousand cubic metres is 2,800 euros per car. By placing the taxes on goodwill, traffic charges, insurances or additional taxes on the public in the car, when it is sold, a huge chain of services and revenue arises, which the State does not have the ability and luxury of not losing, but of not losing any time to start its implementation immediately. Because we should always have in mind that time is being wasted. And this time is lost sales, which are not easy to replace. Repairing sales to many of us who know from the market is very difficult to find after the first quarter or the first quarter of the year. Because we are entering another period after spring and summer, when sales are not repaid. Therefore, the costs that have been incurred during the first quarter - four months to companies and revenues that have not come to the Greek State are difficult to compensate for. Let us do this as soon as possible for both the benefit of the citizens and the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Cammene. The Minister has the floor, Mr Alexiadis, to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. The evidence you have provided, Mr Kammene, helps with the negotiation, which is being completed in this area. I would like to repeat that it will immediately come a provision and give relief to both citizens and businesses and public revenues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Then we will discuss the fifth under number 601/1-32016 a top-level question by the Independent MEP, Achaias Nikolopoulos, to the Minister of Finance, on the publication of the magazine “Enjoy” on the participation of Papastavrou on the Board of Directors of the legal company “MG Capital Advisors S.A.” by Marveve Grabovski - Mitsotakis. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Treasury Alexiadis. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, first of all I would like to wish, on behalf of not only the Christian Democratic Party but also of all the Greeks, that today's meeting of the political leaders will bring good results and send out that message of national unity, which times and the big issue require and not be a new theatre of cheap micro-groups. Above all, the positions and especially the Chief of Officerial Responsibility do not constitute the advocacy of those who want this problem to deal with it, and we cannot and must not, our country. But it is indeed impressive that the latest information, the ones published, say that the Chief of Anti-Population will refuse to give his own consent to veto, if necessary. And there is no one, not only to wonder but also to fight and worry, thinking about whether it was Kostas Karamanlis' position then what he would do with the Annan plan or what he would do for the name of Macedonia. Besides, the choice of Nikolaos Georgiades, the one who said Macedonia was bullshit, as leader of its election campaign, is probably bad news. I come to the question quickly, Minister. Mr. Mitsotakis spoke of a clear vine. Is your ministry really a clear-cut vine? Didn't you guys get a lot of shit? Just the ones we're dating outside asks if there's two yards and two stations? Only to us do people say "Korack eye doesn't work"? Do you not know anything about business, as has been done in many magazines, such as the 'Emergency', 'Hot Doc' and the daily press? And much more, did you not hear that you had no record of the changes made to Mr. Mitsotakis' wife? The excuse given you know it and laughs at the full - time. And surely one laughs at thinking about how the same politicians reacted in the case of other Members of Parliament, but much more about what is predicted for anyone who is not doing the right thing, saying the excuse "we did not live together, without having divorced." So, in his tax statement, what did he do? So the questions are being raised, because as soon as yesterday the centre-right newspaper 'Dimoratia', Mr Alexiadis - and I will be tabling them - is saying that Mr Stasinopoulou's SIC made the wrong eyes of Kalamata, the former Secretary-General, on the case of Mr Psycharis. And I did not read that you had ordered SADs, even you, and said, "Why did he do it?" As also, I have never learned and have never been able to reply despite the parliamentary scrutiny which has been carried out and about similar cases at that time. Today, then, the questions are very clear. So in the period of his marriage, Mr. Mitsotakis had declared his profits, the losses of the company in question during all the years of operation from 2007 onwards? Does this company show up in Mr. Mitsotakis' statement of financial interests? Is their company involved in the economic activity of Mr Papastavros, because of which he paid a fine of EUR 3.3 million? Has the IMO, the General Secretariat of Income and the Financial Prosecutors been asked for all this, except in the case of the year 2007-2012, during which the company's board of directors was responsible and controlled for the list of Lagard, Mr Stavros Papastavrou? If not, will they be asked? Not to tell us that you didn't hear them, that you didn't read, that you had a lot of work to do. Has the ILO and the General Secretariat of Revenue requested all public balance sheets and contracts for any projects undertaken by that company and under what regime? If not, will they be asked? And during the previous government, was Mr. Mitsotakis and Mr. Papastavrous advisor to the Prime Minister, this company participated in public tenders? And if so, what projects did he take? Finally, the capital increases, as they arise from the Stock Exchange, were made with own funds? And if so, have the competent supervisory and judicial authorities investigated whether these things appear on Mr. Mitsotakis' side? Has this company been audited by the relevant FAO for all these years? And finally, let us know if you had time to examine the published Newspapers of the Government in the press and in the magazines I mentioned, whether they were valid or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. Since the question was so big, what did you want the first two minutes and consumed them in strange things? Anyway. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u36	I shall try, Mr President, and the honourable Member, within the short time to answer the nine questions - seven more than is provided for in Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure on the topical and urgent subjects, which stipulates that they must be only two - but I will try, because, with your torrential political and written speech, you have raised a great many issues. First of all, I would like to make a point so that anything can be left to this Chamber. The Treasury is not a clear vine. The Ministry of Finance is a service that has problems, has shortcomings, but is not a clear vineyard, and it is not an enclosure that some will feed to have their own benefits. The Ministry of Finance only aims to strengthen public revenues and fight for tax justice. The pathogens that existed in previous periods, where some were trying to use tax and control services, either to strengthen their own political friends or to cover others or to prosecute political opponents, ended and ended in the most clear way, in the case of Law4336, where the Greek Parliament voted and said that we had, unfortunately, a past of political interventions in the Ministry of Finance. That's over. There is no political intervention to benefit from, or punish or target anyone. Clear things. As far as your too many questions are concerned now. In the first question, there is an incompetence with us. Let us make it clear that the issue of the declaration, wherever you were, is the responsibility of the committee responsible. There's no way the Treasury can control itself unless it's requested. And, of course, if it is requested, that is where we will assist and provide audit staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u37	There is a complaint here, however, and it must be checked.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u38	I'll tell you. As far as the Anti-Fraud Authority is concerned, I will submit all relevant documents and there are too many of them, where we have been informed about Mr Papastavros that he had submitted any time in 2012 and 2104 because he belonged to the'special positions' category. As regards the fifth question, for the contracts, the Ministry of Finance only has information on its own contracts and according to the relevant note, which we will submit to you, there is no contract with this company. On the subject of the FEO, which you are talking about, it is the only issue I can talk about, because we commit ourselves and honour tax confidentiality. We are not following situations of our predecessors, who have leaked tax secrets to hurt political opponents. That's over for us. However, as far as the FEK is concerned, it is a public document and I will table this in the Minutes. That is what these names are, without any targeting, because it is a public document, which is why we are responding to that. As to Question ninth, we have lack of competence. As far as the issue of the prosecution order is concerned, we are also presenting you with the answer from the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority, from which, as I said, the issue of where you came from arises. We will provide you with a document from the Financial Prosecutor, which shows that there has been no case-file on this matter, and also the document of the IMO, which clearly says that it has not gone to the IMO with regard to the dossiers referred to in the first question. In other words, no such file has been sent to the IORP by a service. As far as the prosecution order is concerned, the so-called Lagard list explains very clearly what has happened. In closing the debate, I would like to make it quite clear that we must either issue an order as a Ministry of Finance or have specific criteria to check that this case comes out or have been breached or have a complaint. With these rules we are moving and it is very good that, where there is to be scrutiny, it is not a decision by Tsakalotus or Alexiadis or whoever is in this position, but it is a matter of services with specific, uniform, measurable and transparent criteria.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u40	Minister, those who listen to us and those who listen to us - because your answer will be presented and will be sent to all those who give the form of the complaint in their questions - who are waiting for your answer. I say that you will reinforce those who say that you rather want Mr. Mitsotakis hostage to ask you to move the controls when the time is right to surround his "port" policy from square to square. But we won't do that to you. The Minutes today, since for you it is not a complaint, we will send them to the ILO. The ILO, in other words, considers an anonymous complaint by any citizen enough to start control, and the Minister said to us: 'Look, we are not doing this, because we are good children. Let's say you want to. We don't know. What you say, yes, may apply, may not apply, but nobody did anything." What different is the IMO doing today from the Stasinopoulou SAR? Absolutely nothing! On the occasion, therefore, because we will return, as you can imagine, to Mr Pyres at the 'Section of Sunday' that, because of parliamentary scrutiny, he will be sitting on the stool or Mr Alfouzos again because of parliamentary control over SEVEN X, not even Mr Mioney, who has not been given an answer yet. If you are able to answer us, Mr Papastavros speaks of a loan contract with Mr Miones. Have these been filed at the DUT houses? We have also not received an answer to the well-known oil smuggling story, Minister. In conclusion, I would like to say that - and if you do not know it, you accept it as a complaint - it writes 'Hot Doc' and other electronic news sites that Mr Mitsotakis and Mrs Grabovski appear, according to documents revealing, to use the same VAT, which they obviously say - and you will know, because you are the job - that is illegal. Will sanctions be imposed here, fines, as you would have done for every citizen? Didn't you even hear that at the Ministry? No one told you? Will you consider this trick of getting in and saying 'I'm in a dimension', the other saying other arguments, that it can be an effective way to hide illegal assets? Is that the case in this case? Do we have any hidden assets? Shouldn't that be investigated? I didn't say it was like that. Will you consider, finally, the possibility that the magazines reveal, that the Kyriakos Mitsotakis family was adjacent to the core of the protagonists of the 'SIEMENS' scandal by buying neighboring plots and using the same notary or whether this neighborhood is simply geographical?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u41	Thank you. The Minister has the floor to close the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u42	Your Honor, you have to accuse me of delays, incompetence, ignorance, I will accept it. But, if there's a charge of covering, "not a hair," what do they call it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u43	And you don't have much!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u44	There's nothing growing on the volcano, so we're comforted! But we must make it clear that there is no way we can cover anything up. That's very clear. We barely have too many issues to investigate at the Ministry of Finance. As far as I am concerned, in my first speech to the House, I said - and this has not remained in the file simply, it is something that goes on - that the affairs of the Ministry of Finance, for which a mandate for tax control has been issued or an order for the prosecution has been issued, involving political persons and the media. Why did I say that? Because it must not be hovered above the political world or above the media any grey zone. And it must not be anyone of Alexiadis today or tomorrow who is blackmailing, pressing or ensuring certain things with any tax control that is under way. This has to be over!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u45	That's exactly why I asked the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u46	And here it is unacceptable that there have been such control orders since 2012 and remain in some services' archives. And to that you also expect developments in these matters. There's no way. With regard to your question, I answered your question. Now, if you in your question put me new publications and new information, these are for investigation by the competent authorities. We cannot involve old tax cases with new complaints. Each one has its own destiny. But you must know - and I can assure you in the most unequivocal way - that we will not use tax services and, in general, the public for political exploitation, as others have done, neither to favour anyone nor to target others. The public will function properly. Tax justice will work properly. There's no way she can get away with it. As far as the issues of loans are concerned. I do not know exactly what had been done with this loan, but when one citizen gives a loan to another, there are the related obligations and repayment of the loan - to go back to previous political years, because this has been forgotten - it is a presumption for the taxpayer. That is, if I get a loan from you, I will have to justify these incomes when I return the instalments to you. But these are things that we know and will be monitoring in the coming years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u47	This is 3.3 million!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u48	This proves that in this country everything has not been destroyed. There is wealth and someone can pay their tax obligations very easily. But be sure, Mr Nicholas, that in the tax matters that exist in the Ministry of Finance and others that are constantly opening, not only will we not have a cover, but we will do everything possible as political leadership not to intervene, but to support the audit services. Because these cases must be cleared and finally brought to justice or to the Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, I would like to put before you, please, a great deal and be written in the Minutes. Minister, look at them and read them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u50	You must testify!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u51	Complaints are awesome, like the last one about Mr. Stergiotis and a gentleman gave it to me out here to see his works and days!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u52	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-nine students and students and three educational sessions from the Gymnasium of Gumenissa Kilkis, which is hosted in Athens, as part of an educational programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Denkias, has asked for the floor. We should give him the floor, because he is asking to explain to us the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the House in accordance with Rule 67(2), Article 24(1) and Rule 129(2) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I do not know whether the Minister will be accused of covering up, but he is sure that he is being accused here and now of collusion. And I would like to explain that this question infringes all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House and can be taught as an example of this in legal schools. As has been noted, first of all, the questions go far beyond the two set out in Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, the whole question, with the exception of two, concerns the Commission, whether or not you have chosen, obediently and with anger in the hand, to come and reply, even with a low quality - you will allow me to express - ten - the morality of the present government and the disclosure of the tax-duty. The other two questions do not concern the Commission. One is for judicial and judicial matters, and the Minister has responded in good time. If someone responded, they should be the Minister of Justice. The other question arises from public documents, of course published. There is, therefore, still no parliamentary scrutiny, which cannot, in any case, come from publications and on the basis of publications. It's a regular tactic of the House. I would like to say this: I will not go into the logic of the debate on this question. I would just like to say that the government must have a lightly glimpse - new Greek, shameful - and reddening, because in an hour's time there will be a meeting of the political leaders on a major national issue, in which it calls for a consensus of counter-population, it comes here and directs discussions on questions of this type. These things do not honor the government, but at times of national crisis, however trivial, indifference and humbly and though they are, they deeply harm the country, society, homeland.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. Record your proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u56	Yes, you have the floor for a minute, Mr Alexiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u57	I was not impressed by the content of what was heard. But I was not expecting this from this Member, because I am used to another level of political controversy. But I am constantly taught as a new Minister in the House. But to make it clear a few things, because Mr. Deedias was probably not here all along. I have said for myself that Rule 129 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure says two questions and the questions are nine. I said it myself. I also said that for some questions I am unreserved. I do not understand where the criticism is made in me, after I have made it clear that these matters are not the responsibility of the Ministry, but other ministries and I have tabled documents from which specific things arise. The only document that is public - and I have been able to answer - is the FEK. That is what I have tabled, as well as the replies from the relevant ministries. The question whether it was my responsibility or not I accept it. But I do not understand the proposal. So what do you suggest?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u58	Are you serious about this? A little serious, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u59	Don't be serious, Mr. Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u60	Work proves serious, Minister. Is that why you came to the House? To deposit FEC? In one hour is the meeting of the political leaders and you came to the House to testify to FEK? That was your role?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Dendia, I came to the House to answer a question...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Tendia, will you fight us, why are we answering?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u63	I'm not talking to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u64	I'm not talking to you either. But I don't understand why you're gonna fight us because we're answering? Take it easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Dendia, I understand why you want to create tension. You're welcome, though. I came to the House to answer two questions, and I don't understand what you suggested.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u66	I see you have a right-wing singer on the left for me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u67	Mr Polakis, let's stop the confrontation with Mr. Dendia, so we can finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u68	May I come to the House to answer Mr Kammenos's question and say a word about Mr Nikolaopoulos's question? Besides, you can read what I said in the Minutes. It clearly arises. Now, whether there is a more general political controversy exists, it is not about me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u69	Thank you. We enter the debate of the sixth under number 576/23-2-2016 topical question of the second-round question of the Parliamentary Kirkra of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Fotinis Vakis to the Minister of Health on the subsistence of the General Hospital of Corfu. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Paul Paulakis. Mrs Vaki, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u70	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the current government has shown its respect in practice for the right to health as a supreme asset protected by the Greek Constitution. Besides, the parallel program, which introduces full free medical care for all uninsured people, is a law of the state, such as the law of the State, and the regulation of issues for the maintenance of intensive care units and the maintenance of remote and frontier rural hospitals, health centres and so on. But you will allow me to refer to the urgent needs of the General Hospital of Corfu, noting that this is only part of the most urgent problem facing this hospital. The establishment plan of the General Hospital of Corfu, the only public hospital to which the inhabitants of the island have direct access, is for the doctors of the HSH sector a hundred forty - eight seats, but they are only fifty - four. Nursing staff accounted for 50% in the Departments of University Education and Sisters of Secondary Education, while the Category of Nursing Technology Nursing has just 35% coverage. The situation is particularly urgent in the artificial kidney unit, where a nephrologist and a pathologist serve, as well as in the pediatric clinic where two pediatricians serve. Additional medical posts have been opened to serve the artificial kidney unit and the pediatric clinic, but so far the problem has not been solved entirely. In the case of the emergency department, a lack of qualified and qualified doctors and nurses is recorded. It is noted that the emergency department staff meets the needs of patients together with the physicians of clinics, who are also under-represented. In addition, it is the problem of the MRI of the hospital, which has never worked, even though it could have been operational for six years, i.e. since the relocation of the hospital to a new building. This results in patients heading to private external medical services, which were the only ones who benefited from this situation, while at the same time the insurance funds were being charged. Today the training of two doctors is under way, but there is no skilled operator of the magnetic tomograph. In view of the above, I ask you: what actions do you intend to take to solve the problem of the lack of qualified doctors in the paediatric clinic and in the artificial kidney unit, as well as the substitution of the emergency department? When do you expect the General Hospital of Corfu to be staffed with radio and radiology technician for the operation of the magnetic tomograph? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, since they have previously participated in the educational programme of the "Corporate of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, tens of eighteen students and students and two attendants of teachers from the 4th Athens Municipal School. The House welcomes them. Mr Polakis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u72	Mrs. Vaki, thank you for the question. I will respond very specifically to what you have set out. I think you, too, know, like the whole House and the whole country, that we have received a situation in which the universe was being dissolved. As we said in the first speech of the programme statements, the system needs support first of all with funding and secondly with a mass-blooded staff. We have been moving in this sense for four or five months, with too many obstacles, but with a clear political choice for the government to support the social sector, health and education. This was translated into your own hospital and several other hospitals. This result will appear more complete very soon. I am specifically going to say the following. Since the October notice, the nine hundred and eighty-five other staff, in your hospital, a PD position has been announced, four nursing posts and two nursing schools. The provisional table for the three hundred and fifty and the remaining ones is expected to be completed within the next few days. Already where the provisional table has been completed, it has been sent to hospitals for HR and university posts to proceed with appointments from the provisional table. From there on, in the notice of five hundred and eighty-five ancillary staff - and I reply to your question about the magnetic tomographer - which comes out in the air in very few days, there have been two TSE class positions of radiology and an assistant pharmacy, which need just to get into operation a machine that has been there for six years. Because we bought it, it's done, and from there on, we don't care if it works, because it's going to spoil the relationships with the various shops that exist outside! Nothing is random in this country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u73	That's right, that's it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u74	Also, for curator II nephrologist to inform you that a second nephew has been signed since February 19, when a nephrotic doctor at the hospital in Thessaloniki was serving at your hospital in order to strengthen the hospital and the nephrological clinic with a second nephroologist. As far as the pediatric clinic is concerned, there has been an ancillary pediatrician and we have called for three other subsidiary pediatricians to be appointed for the second post, but they have not accepted any appointment. Also, February 16 was signed the appointment of another pediatrician we have not yet learned whether to go to the hospital or not. Unfortunately, there is also this problem. A number of secondary doctors have been appointed, but they have not been served. This is about the system that forces some to go to positions other than those they prefer, but that's where we have the needs. I believe that this will be solved by changing the method of selecting subsidiary doctors that we have voted in the parallel programme. In this way, the application will now be made to the U.S. and to two hospitals in particular. So we won't have this problem with the size of the sanitary district extending from Piraeus to Lemnos, say, where in Piraeus they might have gone, but in Lemnos they don't. Also, you should know that there is programming, which will come out in a few days' time, for the thousands of eight hundred posts of the other hospital staff - the great proclamation - along with the six hundred ninety doctors who are also provided for some places for the hospital, either in other staff or in doctors. We are talking about permanent posts, which will be announced in the next few days. The reason why this notice has been delayed is because we expect the provisional tables and the final results of the previous one to be brought to an end so that we do not wait again for the next notice for the common qualifications in both of these major notices, which first came out after six years. Finally, I should like to inform you that as regards the notice of CEDEFOP for intensive care units, the following positions have been announced for your hospital: a doctor, an IP class nurse, three TSE nurses and a IC class nurse, to strengthen your hospital intensive care unit. That's all I had to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Vaki has the floor for her second language for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u76	Mr Minister, thank you very much for your very satisfactory reply. Of course, the effort made by the Ministry of Health in the field of public health is well known, given the enormously dramatic accumulated problems that have been inherited in it. In fact, at this point, I will also refer to a recent incident from the General Hospital of Corfu. The director of the second pathological clinic resigned this week for the purpose of running and organising the clinic. In fact, because of his specialty he served diabetic patients. This is also a sign of worsening, understood and difficult working conditions in the hospital. Also, as you know, islandity is an important factor, as far as the functioning of our hospital is concerned, because because of this subsistence, the largest number of patients have been forced to move for examinations or hospitals in nearby towns and usually in Ioannina. I would like to say, finally, two more things. It is of the utmost importance that Corfu EAW, which is administratively subject to the EAW of Ioanninas, is functioning, causing additional organisational problems. The strength of the EAW in Corfu consists of staff of only twenty-seven people and given the highest workload, especially during the tourist season, the existing mileage of more than 100 kilometres and the problematic road network, it is necessary to increase existing staff in the short term, while in the long term the creation of the EAW of the Ionian Islands would be particularly positive. I also conclude with another organisational malfunction - these, of course, for the future - which is also seen in the 6th Health Region, to which our hospital is subject and which is facing a serious problem because of the huge extent and the many structures it has to deal with. We know that it is your overall design that the administrative restructuring of the health system structure is part of the administrative restructuring, and that is why let me point out that the re-creation of an Ionian Ionian region would make a significant contribution to improving health care at local level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. Mr Paulakis, Deputy Minister for Health, has the floor to complete his reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u78	Mrs Vaki, some people who have been serving for many years in these areas and who accept a huge workload, indeed, bend and that is why we are really trying as much as we can to strengthen the system with staff. Once this problem has been created, we will look to cover it. On the subject of the EMCDDA, you know that we appointed a hundred and eighty-seven people in the EMCDDA at the beginning of January.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u79	Yes, of course, I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u80	From there on, within the next few days, a "in the air" and a notice for another hundred people, including recruitment in areas that had not gone from the hundred and eighty-seven. Ionians and Corfu are in there, there are places for them. It's not that small the number twenty-seven. In Chania they have thirty-six, in Rethymnon they have twenty-nine. It's not a small number. There is a question of sharing the number and functioning of things. Then there will also be a question about the ambulances, where I will say some things. In relation to the EAW, that is, there will be an answer. As regards the last thing you said about the health region, it is clear that a health region that is from Tinaro to the Ottomans - Mathraki - Eretusa is not functional. It's obvious. If one breaks a sanitary district - which will break and another - one of them is the 6th OSH. There are two designs. One is to be the Epirus along with the North Ionians or to go all the Ionians along with Western Greece. We'll see what the most functional solution is. I don't think it's only functional on the Ionian Islands. It is not possible and that is not so functional, because it has to do with where secondary structures should be addressed to higher education then and you must have such a design. However, in this respect in 2016 we will end up with this as a sin from the past with the seven health regions now in existence, which especially two have a serious malfunctioning problem because of their huge extent. One is the 6th, and the other is the 2nd Health Region, which is Piraeus and Lemnos goes to Rhodes and Kastelorizo, which are obviously to be broken into more functional shapes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The seventh question under number 565/22-2-2016, on the continuation of the operation of the University Departments in Agrinio, is not discussed due to a stewardship of the Member of Parliament. Eleventh Question No 578/23-2-2016 topical question by MP 2 Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the dismissal of a worker at the factory of "K.E. KARAMARAKIS - KARAS S.A. - ANNUAL INDUSTRIAL AND TRADE INSTITUTIONS' IN the Industrial Area of Sindos, in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki, is not being discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The twelfth under No 573/23-2-2016 topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kosilis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the need for more complete information to the customers of PPC on the possibilities and protection offered to sensitive social groups, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The tenth third under number 571/22-2-2016 is to be discussed with a topical question by MP I of the Thessaloniki Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis, Minister for Health, on the need to complete the tender launched since 2007 for the supply of new ambulances of the EMCDDA. The Deputy Minister for Health will answer Mr. Paul Paulakis. Mr. Ioannis Saridis has the floor to develop his question for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u82	Minister, it is well known that the EMCDDA has been trying to obtain what is strictly necessary for the functioning of the ambulance since 2007. The course of this competition demonstrates the strength of bureaucracy, against us, against every argument, even in what it says people are dying. For the process of supplying ninety ambulances from the total hundred and eighty-sixteen informing Parliament on August 10, 2015, in reply to a protocol number 2836 asked by my fellow Member, Nikita Kaklamani, that this is at a final stage. For the remaining ninety-six while there are the relevant court rulings and final judgments, you ignore them and choose to indulge in the interest of the Greek people and their needs. The government continues to legislate with the urgent procedure on matters which have nothing to do with the needs of Greek citizens and are not as urgent as the ambulances are for us. After that, Mr Minister: Is the need for these ambulances to be acquired urgently? Are you in a position to commit on when to complete the procurement procedure for these ambulances? Do you know that, under the responsibility of your Ministry, there are no judicial decisions that could remove the obstacles to the completion of this competition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Mr Paulakis, the Deputy Minister for Health, has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Saridis, thank you for the question. On 10 August I did not reply because I was not the Deputy Minister of Health at that time. I want to tell you a chronological order of things that put the issue in its real dimension and position. The competition for these ambulances began in 2007. It's not just bureaucracy, Mr. Saridis, it's also a war of heated conflicting interests within the EAEC, within governments, with companies who were killing what the job would get, because it was a great deal of money. And all this - changes of standards, objections to objections - started in 2007 and we finished half of it, running with the soul in the mouth, in 2015. After the elections on 20 September, we found the ninety ambulances - ninety, not ninety-six - to be at the so-called pre-contractual audit stage by the Court of Auditors. This check you know can last from three months to six or seven or eight months. The programming period expired on 31 December. And in October, with the help of the Court of Auditors and a great deal of pressure there, pre-contractual monitoring took place in a record time for the Court of Auditors' data. From that point on, we coordinated eight regions to make the necessary decisions, to commit the advances, to sign the contracts for each region separately - because it is through the MAGPs of the regions - and to sign with the mixed company in this section of the ambulances and to be able to actually save the 'no more than one' of the ninety ambulances. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Deputy Minister hits the warning bell.]] If we didn't do what we did, and if we didn't do a few hours every day for two months, it wouldn't happen, because this monster of Greek bureaucracy has set you up in every step. To get that thing over there, you might want thirty cards. Maybe he wants thirty cards this way. This thing needs to be taken care of, because it is a key analogue factor in any development process in our country. We have the commitment - and the conventions have been signed - that the ninety ambulances will be delivered by 30 June. It concerns the regions: Ionian Islands six, Crete twenty-five, Northern Aegean two, South Aegean eight, Epirus eleven, Western Macedonia fourteen, Eastern Macedonia and Thrace fourteen and Peloponnese ten. In fact, we had a fight with the company the other day, because we were promised that the first ambulances would arrive at February, but we were told that the transformation was delayed in Italy and that the first thirteen to twenty ambulances would come in March. Now, as far as the remaining ninety-six ambulances are concerned, look at what's going on. There was a political choice because the companies were chasing. And to say some things, be careful to see what happened. In a competition for a hundred and eighty-six ambulances, we get - says - ninety to 48,650 euros one - what we have achieved and what we are going to get - and the other ninety-six should have taken it, says, with 63,000 euros one. And it started - and rightly so - that one company was succeeded against each other and that part of the competition was cancelled. There was an opinion and with a broad interpretation the other ninety-six could be taken. In other words, we would actually do a procedure which, through a broad interpretation of a judicial decision, we could give the other part to the previous broker. What we have done is: In cooperation with the Committee on Health Procurement, in cooperation with both the regions and with the EAEC, we are extending the possibility of calling for tenders up to 30-6 - because there is money in the MAGPs for them in all five regions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u85	Do you mean reopening?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u86	We'll call the competition again. This process has already begun. We will go with the specifications that exist, with the approval of appropriateness that exists from the previous one and with an extension of the NPV for competitions that come from old, ending on 31-3 and going 30-6, we will be able to open this competition for the remaining ninety-six patients without any conditions that were so that only two companies, let's say, can apply to these competitions. So we'll call him in the next time. And it will be clearer and we will also be judged, of course, whether red tape is going to eat us or whether we are going to take the red tape down. That is the answer, Mr Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Here, Mr Saridis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u88	Minister, if we are talking about reopening the competition, we have been talking for two and a half years. From the date on which you will actually proceed, you will proceed to the notice until the conventions we have been talking about for two and a half years. At the moment, you have a tender with the tenders closed, which you do not continue with. If it is for the good and not to disperse public money, we are in agreement and will welcome you. But you have supported yourself - and I read from a post: "Polakis Reports in the House for incredible waste in the field of health" - how much it costs an ambulance from the old, old-fashioned ambulances we have. I'm tabling this for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Saridis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In addition to the specific you have supported, I would like to say that both the EAW and all the organisations and all the parties are talking about urgency at this time of supplying the ambulances and such a competition places it in two and a half years. There are two judicial decisions, 2925/2015 and 2924/2015, by the Athens Administrative Court of Appeal, which speak of this competition - and I will testify them for the Minutes - on the fact that the competition is a single one. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Saridis, presents for the minutes the judgments referred to above, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now, if there are, as you said, EUR 48 000 for some EUR 63 000 for others, that is something I do not know. It's another ninety ambulances, another ninety-six. In other regions, ninety ambulances go to another ninety-six. That's the truth. If the invitation to tender for the ninety-sixty-six patients had other standards, clearly the price given can be EUR 63,000. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, it is a matter which you and I know do not have the opportunity at this time to know. I would like to put you in front of your political responsibilities, to say that at the moment there is no human life cost, just how much more than a hundred. If we're talking about two and a half years to get a new ambulance, get that particular responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Mr Paulakis, Deputy Minister for Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Saridis, as I told you before, we'll be judged for doing two and a half years. As we were judged, we finished a pre-contractual check within less than a month. And that's where we were judged. Otherwise, the ninety ambulances wouldn't even come. And if there was a need for the ninety-six ambulances, there was a greater need for the ninety, dating back to 2007. And not to say much, the exact same ambulances that gave us now with EUR 63,000 in the period of 2004 we bought them with EUR 96,000. To understand, that is, what's going on. And in some things, we stop holding a light, so I can say it popular. From there on, the ambulance repairs cost us and cost us too much, whether they are old or expensive. In the last few days, however, with the new administration of the EAW - the board of directors has been fully reconstructed - and with the differing function of the workshop in place, ten more ambulances have been on the shifts than they were in the workshops. So it's not so pathetic and everywhere. We took all nine ambulances from the fire department, which was sitting for five years. Of these, four were mobile units and are currently allocated throughout Greece where there is a need. No human life will be lost, Mr. Saridis. Don't do it so heartbeat. The EMCDDA has reduced its time, worked, strengthened, and with an eighty - seven staff, it will also be strengthened with another hundred. And from there on, it will be a test of our Government as well to make it in other terms, much faster and with a better result for the public interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u91	I hope you bring better prices.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u92	This story that "if we're gone with the ambulances" has been holding since 2007.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u93	However, you have said that the cost of maintaining ambulances is 5,000 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u94	Yeah, that's 4,500,000 euros a year. This does not mean that this must be the reality. Because, as I have said other times, when you have a workshop in Thessaloniki - which is one of the best workshops there - and because it doesn't have two specialties, it doesn't work, then, yes, it costs you, because you're giving them out. That's the story.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u95	Is it urgent, my Minister? Is that the only thing you can tell me is an urgent matter of providing the ambulances?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u96	It's an emergency, it's not. That there is a need in some areas, that is. As well, there are too many ambulances. And we've moved on to a record. Because if we catch the Dubot to get down to Crete, we'll find at least sixty with seventy ambulances, which they're sitting on. Some agencies gave it up. Some regions bought them themselves with another competition. Because that's not all. Other ambulances have been taken by the districts, with other contests. Also, there have been donations from NGOs. And that is what they sit down for, because the malfunction and bureaucracy that exists in that state did not allow - because it will allow them to move and strengthen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Foreign, Home and Administrative Reconstruction Ministers and the Deputy Ministers of Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Foreign Affairs submitted on 4-3-2016 a draft law: "Structuring the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Criminals of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on cooperation in matters of the European Union". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Next is the eighth under number 569/22-2-2016 topical question by Hercules Iraklios of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the contribution of the Ministry to improving the banking product under the name "Carta Farm". This timely question will be answered by the Minister, Evangelos Apostolos. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor to develop his timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the farmer is compressing. The agricultural sector is compressed because of the increase in costs, but also because of the general economic suffocation which our country is going through because of the new recession in the country. And, obviously, he needs state support. One more reason for this support is that over-taxation and new measures will further compress its income and economic potential. The question concerns the banking product 'Piraeus', namely the possibility offered by Piraeus Bank - I do not know whether any other banks proceed with this method - to secure liquidity to the farmer so that he can grow and fulfil his obligations. What role can the Ministry play and what do we ask of you? Today the interest rate of the "Cartas Farm" is 7% and the height, the wall, is about 50% of the subsidies. What we are asking you to answer is whether the Ministry is thinking of working together to reduce interest rates or of a system of interest subsidy, through financial instruments at its disposal. Also, if the Ministry and OPEKEPE can guarantee the entire subsidy and, of course, the entire income, which is aid and income from production, so that the bank can increase the threshold with which it will cover the farmer by lending through the Carta Farm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Apostleu has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u100	Mr Colleagues, indeed the rural area has problems, more importantly, I would say, the liquidity problem, particularly after the real abolition of the Agricultural Bank as a credit instrument for the area. So we are implementing the new policies that we have on the rural area, which aims not only to cover the need for liquidity but at least in the medium term to help the development of rural activity. We therefore have tabled a specific national trade mark with the word 'Harta Farmer', 'Agrocarta'. I'll testify for it to be in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What do we really want to do about this card? Firstly, the farmer should make withdrawals to finance the needs of his holding, using as a guarantee, through the development programme, the allocations that will be made and, above all, of course, by placing the aid resulting from his rights as a guarantee. Basic targeting right now is that these funds should be made at a low interest rate. It is really time for the tachypical function that existed and there is still in the rural area to be addressed. What's he buying? Mostly it will cover supplies, operating, maintenance, and I would say - we will see it in the relevant negotiation - that it also covers part of the consumption requirements. We have already addressed our proposal to the Association of Greek Banks. There has been a debate on this, and we are, I would say, in the integration phase, in order to present the Cartas Farm with all the parameters. The rural world will be informed when this process is completed. What we have at least been informed about right now is that the banks have already entered the review process of their tariffs, in particular as regards the product concerned, and the interest rates that are being formed, at least in the discussions that are taking place, are much lower than the current ones. So we are in this process and, of course, in my dentistry, I will also tell you the possibilities that this card has, if it actually goes on for further use, and in particular for other products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am not talking about an idea you have and a signal you have forged, which can also guarantee any NGOs or any citizen. I am referring to existing banking products and I will present this full-size advertising of Piraeus Bank, which before your recapitalisation was, in terms of equity, the public. Piraeus Bank before your recapitalisation the latter was by a majority of the public. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So do not go back to the past, asking for justifications for the current difficulties caused by inertia and lack of planning, initiative and will, I would say. The question is specific. Do you have the will, in the banking products now provided by the banks - the Piraeus Bank provides it, likely to provide other banks - to contribute with interest subsidy or in any way for low interest rates, or to 'bless' 7%? That's the question. It can't be the future, that's it now. Now people go and get it. And, of course, if you can, you can guarantee through OPEKEPE and the rest so as to increase the plaque. That is the specific question and answer me. If it becomes a theoretical or other product, we'll talk about it then. I'm talking to you about now. To tell you, too, that the need for liquidity does not exist because one of the banks or many of the banks was abolished some years ago, because we have too many mergers. It is not just the Agricultural Bank.’ Too many banks have merged and we have a specific banking system today. They're delaying subsidies. For example, you have not yet paid the rest of the base and the "creaming" and the other one does not know when it will be paid. At least tell him he'll be paid in April, knowing not to go to borrow. You can tell him when he gets the money. The balancing on the islands when will it be paid? When will the state's obligations be met so that it doesn't need, at least the one who does, to get? Some people will need to grow up, obviously. And look, because we're having conversations about things of the future, and the present is eating him the farmer and his income. See in livestock, for example, that you do not care about, what is going on with milk, the Greekizations, the fall in prices. And you have purpose and you have not answered the question we have asked you for a long time. Finally, on these tenths, 11 - I don't know how many days - will you apply them? Why do you not bring the provision to abolish what, unfortunately, can be a loop for a large industry? But the most important thing, Minister, is not to mention the future, but to the moment. Now tell us what you are going to do on these important issues which are confusing the farmer and the agricultural sector as a whole. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. For three minutes now, the Minister has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. I'm not going to say the generalization of your question. I just want to tell you that we are doing what you forty years, ruling the country, didn't do. And I would like to be, particularly as regards the part of the payments, consistent, because after a while your colleague has a question and I will answer it then. I would like to make it clear, however, that the product called the Carta Farmer is a product which is aimed at the entire banking system through the Association of Greek Banks, because it aims to tackle those interest rates that are even currently being diluted in the rural area, first through the process of competition. Because there is a possibility when we talk about guaranteed liquidity. At the same time, there is the possibility - as you have said - of even linking it to an income which will already be shaped. But we don't start with this parameter now. We will see how the interest rate will go ahead in the first phase in particular. What you mentioned about numbers, we don't even talk about them. We are talking about interest rates, which will be too low in relation to the current situation. So let's see this part. Let us see, of course, the products that the banks themselves can proceed with, with the reference to the Cartas Farmer. From there on, we in the context of our policy, plan and strategy, want this particular feature, which the rural area has to defend with all our potential and, of course, through the establishment of a development bank, which will have a special role to play in the rural area, but also, of course, in walking, a project that, having as the basic point of reference the agri-food complex, will give many answers quickly to the rural area.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u105	Thank you to the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Evangelos Apostolos. The ninth under number 564/22-2-2016 a topical question by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance regarding the assessment of the new financial measures for the period 2015-2016 is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The tenth question will be discussed under number 568/22-2-2016, the second question of the Members of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the payment of the compensation and aid due to the farmers of Elias for the damage to agricultural production in the first half of 2015. Mr Evangelos Apostolos will answer the timely question by the Minister for Rural Development and Food. Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor to develop his timely question for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have just admitted - and this is the harsh reality - that the rural world is facing a strong problem, among other problems, the problem of liquidity, the available resources, which are necessary for the supply of agricultural supplies to do its job. This liquidity problem has to do with the recession, it has to do with capital controls, it has to do with the removal of incomes from the farmer's pocket, with overtaxation, particularly the increase in VAT that, as I told you when we discussed our relevant question, amounts to a very significant amount. You reacted, but it's a considerable amount anyway, anyway. Of course, the problem is not dealt with in the way you said, as you talk about what banks will do, not about what you as government will do. After all, if we load another 7% cost to the farmer, he will actually have nothing left. My timely question, then, is that you owe Elias compensation for the loss of last year that was very important. I was informed that at the end of the month, namely a week after my timely question, some payments were made. I want you to tell us when the rest will happen. Of course, Elias Prefecture is an excellence agricultural prefecture, as 50% of its GDP comes from agricultural income. In addition to the compensation, you owe the farmers of Elias the single payment, that is to say the 1 billion you owe the Greek farmers, Elias has a substantial sum to receive, which is missing from the farmer's pocket. The farmer cannot plan to cultivate, seek ways of borrowing, cost and wait for the government to give him a clear timetable for when to get his money. These are the questions and we are waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u108	So what do we do today, dear fellow Member? I'm starting with ELGA. ELGA, for damage caused by various natural hazards in 2014, has paid the farmers and farmers of the country in 2015 the amount of EUR 175 million, 60 million more than it paid in 2014 for the losses of 2013. Nearly the payment of compensation for 2014 has been completed, i.e. there has been no need to use the EUR 50 million available - I say why you mention it in the Bank of Greece for better use. At the same time, payment for the losses of 2015- the first quarter - which will continue at regular intervals, per month, until it is completed. It is noted that during the coming year the amount of EUR 16 million was paid for the payment of State aid, known as CSEs. On 29 January 2016, a further EUR 7,5 million was paid for crop and livestock damage caused in 2015, while on 26 February 2016 another EUR 18,5 million was paid. On 10 February 2016, a further EUR 2,5 million was paid for the CEECs. The Agency's planning is - as I told you - the payment of all outstanding 2015 by June. In the Regional Unit of Elias - as you said - the damages in 2015 were assessed by the Services and findings were communicated and, at the same time, compensation was started. Already on February 26, 2016, we gave Elia EUR 2.7 million compensation for damages in 2015, which you mentioned, and which will continue, as I said before, until June 2016, to complete all the corresponding compensation. As far as the issues of payments of the single payment scheme are concerned, you know that a right title has been issued. We're talking about new CAPs, new data. Of course, with regard to those who had a problem, with regard to the payment of December, through the procedure for granting definitive rights - because that is what we are preparing to do at this time - they will be announced soon and when the payments will be made. I don't have time, I'll tell you more in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Minister. Before I give you the floor, Mr Koutsouko, I would like to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirty-three students and students and five educational attendants from the Agia Paraskevi School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for the development of your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u110	Minister, as I said, some payments were made in February and if my timely question had been discussed in the time that we should have made some news about the farmers of Elias.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u111	Out of the result...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u112	However, you did not answer all the debts of the ELGA. Because I told you that in the first half of 2015 we had significant damage to Elias. When we have substantial damage, we pay more money. Minister, you must not forget that in 2010 there was a reform in the country by the PASOK government, which then you, as a minor opposition, fought it, but the major opposition did not support it, the late reformists. And this reform prompted ELGA and enabled him to have surpluses and to pay in time. Today we are talking about a year of damage. So give a timeline, because the problem of liquidity is huge. Farmers can't schedule. I accept your wishes that payments will run in the first half of 2016, but give a schedule per damage. Because the controls and the findings are over, the farmers have them in their hands. They know what they have to take. And ELGA's money, Minister, is not to be kicked into the Bank of Greece to get it! They belong to the farmers. They come from their contributions. I now come to the question of single payment. You are fourteen months there, Minister, - if I am not mistaken - in this position. In these fourteen months you should have planned when to make the payments of the single payment. Money is data. They had been assured by the previous ones, the ones that you swept through. And you know very well that, when we were there, we were paying the deposit up to 15 October - and if we were delaying one day, there was a huge noise - and the payment ends December. You also paid an advance on the end of December, and now you 'live, my black man, to eat a loaf in May', as the farmers say in the relevant proverb for payment. So tell them a timetable, because as we said earlier, with this huge lack of liquidity, they cannot grow or have to borrow at excessive cost. Minister, problems are always one after another. I was informed by the group of producers of the Amalada industrial tomato that they cannot make contracts with the industries because you have given a deadline that is close to harvest. When the other one does not have the contract, he cannot go to the bank and borrow on the basis of these banking products, which Mr Kegeroglu told you earlier, which are banking products. They have nothing to do with your work. So we want specific answers instead of wishing, which refer to the future, so that farmers also know how to do their job. For that is exactly what you and yours should be and ours, which we exercise parliamentary control over you, asking for specific answers, which unfortunately have not been received so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, MP for the Democratic Association of PASOK. He now has the floor for three minutes, to complete his reply, the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Evangelos Apostolos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u114	For the allowances of the ELGA, we have said so, and I will not come back. In the case of payments for the others relating to aid, ladies and gentlemen, you know that we have received a mess. And chaos only seems when it comes to one and a half billion counts and one and a half billion financial corrections - fines. So you understand that, starting a new CAP, we had as a basic objective as far as possible to guarantee rights without having the same procedures. Don't forget that every year we had 320m euros fines. For the first time, then, our country has no fine. We were told that "you're doing well" and that was our main target. What is more, something you forget: we are talking about new CAPs. They change the data completely and indeed its implementation procedures are so complex. We were one of the first countries in the European Union to make payments. There are still countries that have not completed the process. At last, however, let's say what we're doing. Objections have been raised, we are considering these objections and mistakes that might exist and we have said that we are entering phase two. We paid about 54% of the single payment. So we come to the second part, which deals with 'druging', which you know themselves. You say, 'Let it be given now'. It cannot be granted before all rights are finalised. So everything is a process that will be done and certainly the planning says that payments will be made in April. It is therefore a process which needs certain parameters, which we cannot overcome. The implementing regulation - you voted for it - creates all these difficulties. From then on, I want to make one thing clear: at some point, a class will be introduced into these payments, which will begin at the end of November and will end up - ending at the end of March - let us get to 10% of what you know is the liquidation in June. That is our objective and we will be serving from now on, having as the main point of view the rights to be guaranteed, to solve too many problems. Do you know how many young farmers have problems? They were not paid, because the regulation was so strict in terms of reference time and it caused us a great deal of trouble. And that is where the Rules of Procedure want to be changed to overcome the problems. So trust us. We know the place and we will try as far as possible to ensure that this section on payments takes place in a series and that it is now a one-way road after a year that there is no problem. That's our target.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u115	Thank you to the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Evangelos Apostolos. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-04-S1-commons.u116	With the consent of the House at 12.05 p.m. the sitting for Monday, March 7, 2016 at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, is closed, a debate on topical questions.
