ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 9-3-2016, PH's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the PH's PH's PH's minutes of Wednesday, 9 March 2016, with regard to the resolution as a whole of the draft law: "Strengthening the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Criminals of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on cooperation in matters of European Union and other provisions".]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Friday 11 March 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiota Vranza to the Minister for Rural Development and Food concerning the allocation of rights to support the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) for the period 2015-2019. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Mavroudi Voridis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the "prohibition of the speech of Metropolitan Laureate and Mesogeias Mr. Nicholas in the 15th Single High School of Thessaloniki". 3. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the "execution of the Orthodox Hierarchies from the Greek schools". 4. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction about the problems created in the operation of all the social structures and services of the municipalities throughout the country. 5. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Finance, concerning compensation for the officials involved in the organisation, support and conduct of the tests of qualifications and behaviour of the candidates. 6. The question of the transfer of public services to the Kerani Kamnos Kammenis S.A. under number 631/8-32016. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, on the reopening of the Police School and the conversion of the Carditsa Police Department. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Evros of New Democracy Mr Anastasios Publisher to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the completion of the Greek School of Munich. 3. The question asked by Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of State, concerning measures to ensure the impartial conduct of the polls. 4. The Question No 630/8-32016 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Finance about the amount of delayed loans granted to the Pegasus company. 5. The Question No 602/1-32016 by F Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of National Defence, on the abundance of refugees - non-legitimate immigrants in Kastelorizo. 6. PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on redundancies in the Greek Defence Systems (ESA). 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Ioannis Dellis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the dismissal of the trade unionist, working on the chain of shops - business coffee, "MIKEL COFFEE COMPANY" in Drama. 8. The question by No 578/23-2-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Athanasios (Sakis) Vardalis, Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the dismissal of a worker at the "K.E. KALAMARAKIS - KALAS SA - ANIMALS INDUSTRY AND TRADE INSTITUTIONS" in the Industrial Region of Sindos, in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. B. REFERENCES - Questions (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity about the need for a government's legislative initiative on pensions and welfare issues for HEIs. Before entering the debate on topical and urgent questions, I must also speak from this step, once again, the strong discontent and the Bureau, and personally, but I think that the whole House of Members is also expressing its views on the fact that even today, from the twenty-two topical questions to be debated, only eight are being discussed. The same happened last week. The percentages vary approximately in this context. I have to say that last week at the Conference of Presidents the issue was discussed and the relevant interventions were made to the government, once again, and we hope that in the near future the government or the ministers, if you wish, will respond to the current questions by the Members, who - I am passing away - have to say that there have been delays of two and three months.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, please tell the government that it is not optional. They don't have the right not to come.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, may I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u5	No, it's not a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u6	Can I have the floor? I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u7	No, I'm not giving you the floor. We will enter the debate on the topical and urgent questions. Any objections that exist when your own timely question is announced, then, if you want me to give you the floor, ask him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u8	Because we will be at the Ministry in a national dialogue, which is why I am asking for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u9	Excuse me. I made an intervention at the outset by taking the time off the topical questions, once again, to express our displeasure, in view of the fact that I am also expressing the whole of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, I would be done. It's a specific issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u11	We will not hold a dialogue, we will proceed directly, because the ministers too want to leave. They asked for priority from some of them to start the debate, to be handled and to leave. They have urgent business.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u12	There is a question twenty-three times unanswered. I'm telling you why you said two or three months.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u13	We won't have a dialogue. Please, it's not predictable!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u14	It's not just that they don't answer the topical questions. They don't even answer the writings!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u15	I repeat, when it is announced that your question is not being discussed, I am very pleased to give you the floor - this has been established - for one minute and to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u16	Wait two hours for this while I have to go to the Ministry? I'd be done now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with our fourth question under number 612/1-32016.Point 2 of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, thank you and I will waste little of the time you give me to say that I support your remark now. And I would like to say that, as a Member, I knew until recently that the ministers were calling - sometimes it was a good thing for the Members - to explain their position and to transfer, with common consent, the date of question, because, of course, the ministers also have many problems and unsettled obligations. We understand that. But what is happening, Mr President, has no precedent. Literally, questions are not answered, but without any explanation. Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. He's here. That's where we arrived, Mr. Undersecretary. It does not, of course, concern you personally who are here, but it is, unfortunately, a situation which is, as has happened in recent months. Minister, there are at the moment too many pensioners - and you know that, you may also have timely information to give us - who are waiting on a waiting list for the single payment. That list has grown too much. There's a frustration about that, too. Of course, Mr President, the debate on this topical and urgent debate coincides with another very important occasion in the debate on insurance. We may then, if we have time, talk about it. But I would like you, Minister, to explain something to me. On 17 February the Minister responsible, Mr Katrugalos, sent a circular to the funds for the preparation of proportionate studies. Mr Katrugalos said that there are proportionate studies and even as a teacher himself he had signed an opinion. I have here an excerpt that I want to read to you. He says Mr Katrugalos as legal: ‘The obligation to provide for proportionate studies arises from the constitutional obligation of the State to ensure social security under Article 22(5). However, it also arises directly from the International Convention of the European Social Security Code." That's what Mr. Katrugalos said. At the moment, however, Minister, while by the end of 2014 we had almost 100 thousand pensioners, about ninety thousand pensioners, had been given a single payment, but it has stopped payment and call on you to answer how it will be calculated, whether cuts will be made and when the government has finally planned to start paying the single pensioners.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mrs Christophilopoulou. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you know what the dramatic situation is and the funds that provide a single one. There are dramatic shortages of funds. Since 2011, the government had a proportionate study of the Public Procurement Fund that said a deficit of EUR 4 billion. Things have evolved even worse than those who remain in insurance. We had a blunt flow toward the exit, too many people insured. From about 12 thousand who had left in 2009, more than doubled the number of those who left in 2010 and - I will say exactly the numbers - we have reached twenty-seven thousand. In 2011 we had twenty-four thousand. In 2012, we had twenty-four thousand again. In 2013, we had twenty-two thousand. By 2014 eighteen thousand insured persons ceased to be in the field of social security and thus did not grant contributions for the one. On the contrary, they became the same beneficiaries alone with an already huge deficit of 4 billion, recorded by a proportionate study by the then government of New Democracy and PASOK. In this situation, you should see that we also have a problem of additional deprivation of funds from the insurance funds. Specifically for those single-selling funds there is a very large loss due to the PSI. The Private Welfare Fund had 1,211 billion and ended up after the PSI had only 692 million. Nearly half of them stayed in the TIPIT and the Treasury of Civil Services from 351 million, due to the PSI, were 201 million, i.e. less than 150 million. There is a shortage of almost half of the funds available. After 2013, they have not been granted at all, you know that, and we all know that, and from the previous governments, because there was a mathematical formula that was inappropriate. In fact, according to your dear expression, he was "flying the ball on the platform" with a mathematical formula that could not be applied and that is why the single ones were not paid. Therefore, the current government cannot be indicted for this situation in all these funds. In my dentistry, I will explain the solutions that we think about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u22	Minister, the PSI, if I remember correctly, took place in 2012. I'm not going into this conversation or we're having time. You have received the answers you need to get and the Greek people have understood now. From 2012 to the end of 2014 3 billion euros were granted from the previous government to a single minister, Minister. So let go of these. Tell the Greek Parliament better, after you go there, what happened with the reserves of the funds that we received because of the proud "baroufakia" negotiation that stuck everything for months. Mr President, the reserves of the funds, the reserves of the hospitals and the reserves of local government have been drained! Unheard of, With the previous government there may have been mistakes, failures may have been, necessary cuts may have been, but there was no such drain and a total lack of elementary reserve provision. Answer that, but you really want to throw the ball. Tell us further what the funds have lost since the recent recapitalisation of the banks, which was unnecessarily due. Because you closed down the banks, you closed the border, and you can't negotiate, but you can't command them either. Can I tell you something? Three billion euros were provided. You mind the math guy. Why didn't you change him? You obviously can't. Let me tell you another example of non-management: the law you voted on for pensions, you have not taken out a circular, to explain to all the funds, and the funds do not know exactly how to calculate pensions, namely, an additional delay in the awarding of pensions that is already delayed. So you tell us about proud negotiations, you tell us that you have come to do the bad things, but the right thing is to say this - that you have stopped paying the single ones, without telling us why and without a proportionate study. Mr President, there are also written questions which are not answered as you have said. On 4 February - I can put it in the Minutes - three Members of the Democratic Incorporation - Mr Kegeroglou, Mr Loverdos and I - have tabled a question to the Government and a request for documents on the proportionate studies. As the last update of 2011 data was carried out on a proportionate basis in 2014. Today the government has no proportional studies, it goes blindly. At the moment it is in a gap between society as a whole - farmers, scientists, free traders, pensioners - and lenders on the other hand. And at the moment, even those lumpy and pitiful things you have dared to say, negotiate, a little lower the contributions of lawyers, doctors, engineers, farmers, and these are not accepted by lenders. Is this a good situation? You are asking for the contribution of counterpopulation. The opposition, which set back this summer, could put back, Mr Minister, if you and your chief minister and the government as a whole had the willingness to have a genuine and institutional dialogue with both parties and with the institutions. It's just that there were bodies meeting when the streets closed, and when there were protests, some had to see and see them. Nor was the insurance sector solved and we are at the worst possible time of negotiation. So answer me, firstly, when the single, secondly, where are the proportionate studies, and thirdly, what are you going to do with the multiple cuts and the rate of the replacement of the main and the auxiliary and the single ones, which are to come to the negotiation? Answer me, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mrs Christophilopoulou. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u24	Mrs Christophilopoulou, since September 2013, SYRIZA has not been a government and is not only being paid. They're not paid at all. Not one. We are now intimidated because the previous governments have created this situation, which causes you so much anger about the existence of this situation...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u25	Your lies, not the situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u26	And you do well to be angry, but with the wrong political space you get angry. To be angry with yourself that you had this situation within the insurance funds, without meaning that we, because it was the situation, must not take action. Of course we'll take measures. We're on the fifth month of governance...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u27	In the fifth? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u28	We complete the insurance bill, the proportionate studies will accompany the bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u29	I'll, I'll...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u30	But it never gets any different. Always the proportionate study, in accordance with the rules in force - in all cases - in the European Union, is accompanied by bills. The bill has not been filed. When the bill is submitted to the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u31	What are you talking about? How will you table a bill without a proportionate study?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u32	When, Mrs Christophilopoulou, the bill is tabled in the House, you will be glad to see that we have drawn up a system of distribution of the single in a very fair and transparent manner, in accordance with the rules that must be in place, and of course in return for the contributions paid by the insured, because, as you know, the one-off payment system is a reward, it does not qualify for a subsidy from the state budget. It never accepted a subsidy from the state budget. Therefore, even for uncircuited pensions, this is due to the fact that the bill has not been completed. You know that Law 3863 never applied.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u33	The law adopted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u34	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, don't interrupt. Let the Minister answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u35	I have no second language, Mr President, which is why I am interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u36	Law 3863...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u37	The law you have passed, I say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u38	But you ask, for the Greek people to be informed, through this question. So let the Greek people hear what the government says about the questions you have raised. We have nothing to hide, because you are asking what is what we want to hide at the end. Within the next few days, the bill will be submitted. What is there to hide information which will, in any case, be placed in public consultation and in the view of the committee responsible in Parliament for processing? With regard to the proportional studies on the one hand, of course, there will also be agreement on those who are insured and on the Greek people. Unfortunately, the debate with farmers has been delayed. We said this from the outset that dialogue with them would lead to an agreement. This dialogue has been held, we have reached an agreement. When with scientists, independent scientists, we came to a first meeting, we approached finding a solution. And as the government approached the solution, according to the proposals submitted by them, they were then removed and afflicted by a whole sector which is lagging, the sector of lawyers and other scientific bodies, for no reason. Today we will see the notaries and the judges. I am sure they will come to a debate and - I say it now - I am sure we will reach an agreement. Let others come and talk and come to an agreement, and then we will really be judged on what we have to say. Because when they do not come to discuss, how can there be an agreement without dialogue? Where there was a dialogue between the government and the citizens, with the insured, and that is what we will do in any case. I can assure you that the bill which will also be put in your own crisis will not be such that you can reject it. You'll have a big problem if you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the second with number 618/4-3-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Kilkis Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Health, on tackling the burden of the health structures of Kilkis Prefecture due to the refugee-migration flows. The Minister of Health, Mr. Blondos, will answer. Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. I have one advice, one suggestion for my fellow Members: in order to discuss their topical questions, the issue that concerns them in the world should be raised. The Kilkis Hospital and the situation in Idomeni became a global issue. And because it has become a global issue, and the question has been tabled since 11 December, it is being discussed today. The Minister could not be here today, when the first issue in all the news releases is the situation in Idomeni, a situation which also affects the health structures of the Kilkis Prefecture. On 11 December the same question was tabled, with the same content, as the burden was already in existence and we were seeing and what is coming, although it was not answered, and today, after being re-issued, it is fortunately being discussed. There's certain data at Kilkis Hospital, Minister. We have at the moment in Kilkis Prefecture from eighteen to twenty thousand refugees or immigrants in the three structures that exist: the two are the official, Hersus and Nea Kavala, and the other, the informal camp of Idomeni, where there are about thirteen thousand people. They are twenty thousand, that is, additional people in Kilkis Prefecture, with the health problems you all see, with many young children and at the same time with a Kilkis Hospital, which, instead of strengthening, is underfunded. In the 2016 budgets, the Prefecture of Kilkis, the Hospitals of Kilkis and Gumenissa, forecast less than 27% against the 2015 budget when in many hospitals in the Region, Kavala, Drama, we had an increase. I do not know if this is a target for the depreciation of the Kilkis Hospital, and there is something I do not know, but the fact is that the situation is tragic at the moment is really tertiary, it is truly tertiary-world at the Kilkis Hospital for both the hospital refugees and the local population, who do not have access to health structures, and it is not possible because of the many incidents, the multitude of patients with their escorts. We must, Minister, immediately - because this is the immediate need - answer me what your planning is, so that in this matter, which concerns the inhabitants of Kilkis, but also all of Greece, we can find a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. The Minister for Health, Mr. Xanthos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u42	My dear colleague, I think that your sensitivity is reasonable to raise this issue. Indeed, the situation in Irodimenis is what we say in the definition of the humanitarian crisis. There are thousands of people, without the infrastructure being hosted, in terrible conditions, especially at this time because of the bad weather and we fully understand the burden that has arisen for the public structures of the region. In the other two places of open hospitality, the army has health responsibility, Hersso and Nea Kavala.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u43	I've had her in the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u44	Yeah. Apparently, however, the incidents that need hospitality are burdening the Kilkis Hospital. Fortunately, my dear colleague, we now have - I think - an undeniable picture that from the refugee issue, the migration problem, its most important aspect is not the health aspect. I am glad to say that it is important for these people to take care, particularly of living conditions, feedingstuffs, shelters and, above all, personal hygiene. This is the first priority today, and I think that is also the mechanism to prevent public health problems. Of course, it is a population with particular characteristics. The child population has increased very much in this group. It's 36%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u45	Are the children 36%?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u46	Kids are 36% right now. Pregnant women have grown, even in the incubators, and there is a need for special attention to pediatric care, and it is also true that in this part we have a difficulty in the public health system, especially in the province. These days we have - I think - overcome some initial problems of lack of coordination. The state presence on the part of health care has improved. It is from the first two CEDEFOP mobile units with six staff and a pediatrician. Yesterday, the commander of the EMCDDA Mr Papastathi headed a stage of the EMCDDA. We have entrusted the EMCDDA with general health coordination throughout the country and for the whole treatment of the refugee. Today, a special meeting is held at the seat of the 4th RCD, in order to organise the whole system better and, above all, to ensure that, within the framework of the RCDs, the necessary staff are moved in a targeted manner to meet the urgent needs. The urgent need at the moment at the Kilkis Hospital is to strengthen the pediatric clinic, which, as I was informed yesterday, is a 30-one refugee child, while its overall capacity is eighteen beds. Obviously, there will be a ranch and there will be a forced burden on this section. There is an attempt to strengthen it with subsidiary staff. Unfortunately, of the four assignments that we have made in recent times, only one responded and fortunately was a pediatrician. We also need reinforcement and we are looking to find a solution with a woman with a gynecologist - an obstetrician, because there is also the question of the difficulty of examining male doctors in populations who have this religious and cultural specificity. Of course, there is a need for support with nursing staff and interpreters, which will facilitate the consultation of especially those who need to be dismantled from Ido-denominated to the Kilkis Hospital. We have given a mandate to increase the budget to 100% rather than to 90%, as is the case with other hospitals. We are in agreement with the Ministry's Directorate-General for Economic Affairs, with the administration of the Ministry and with the administration of the hospital, to provide additional funding, which will enable the hospital to respond with credibility and with regard to the pressure it receives from the refugee current, but also to meet the needs of the local society. I therefore believe that, with the efforts made with the coordination at the Ministry level, which includes the EMCDDA, the CEDEFOP, the National School of Public Health, an excellent postgraduate degree in the University of Athens specialising in health crisis, with the synergy of non-governmental organisations, which are fortunately enough there, and which have contributed and continue to provide very important subsidiary assistance to the health care of these people, the Kilkis Hospital will also be able to do so. We will seek to strengthen the next allocation of positions. We now have an eighty-five-five-five-five-five-four subsistence notice and once 4K and 5K are completed, we will publish the second package, which is two thousand four hundred forty-four recruitments....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Secretary, you have the ability of dentistry. Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u48	I shall conclude, Mr President. So there will be special attention to that. The original programming is for five doctors and four other staff. We will see whether we can strengthen it even further. With this whole grid of interventions and in constant communication with the administration of the region's health system, I think we can make the corrective steps to ensure the adequacy and effectiveness of healthcare.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u50	Minister, I do not want to evaluate your intentions, but I have to bring to Parliament the data available. The first presumption is that Kilkis Hospital, unfortunately, has been headless for three months. You made sure to decapitate administrations in many hospitals without immediately seeing their replacement. That is a matter. Now, can you imagine Kilkis Hospital with these problems, with these issues not having a commander for three months? That is the first question. Secondly, you talk to me about four auxiliary doctors, of whom, unfortunately, the three refused to go up. How can the subsidiary go up for just one year in Kilkis under these circumstances if you don't make sure to call Kilkis Hospital as a problematic area? If it's not a problem area right now, Kilkis Hospital with the burden it has, then what is it? This will enable doctors either with a two-year or three-year term to actually choose to come to Kilkis. And that's a demand for Kilkis' society, with an amendment of Presidential Decree 131/1987 to qualify as Kilkis' Hospital. He's not either in the First or Second Class. Only the Hospital of Guenissa is in 2nd, that is to say, two years of service. We definitely have to do this. Because this problem will not disappear today. We know very well that Eidomeni won't stop tomorrow. Apart from this, there are two structures of refugee camps, which have been created - and will obviously be staying for some time - in Hersos and in Nea Kavala. So Kilkis can't have subsidiary doctors for just one year. Secondly, things are very simple. I'm listening for meetings. They did step up. They went up and went to Idomen too. But you know that the demands are two. One is what number of doctors you can send immediately, either subsidiary or others. In an express procedure you have brought many amendments, as a government, and you have solved many problems concerning you. This issue must be a priority for everyone, because it is indeed the humanitarian person of our government, our state, which you have constantly invoked, but we do not see results. Bring in a regulation which specifically provides for the polluted areas due to refugees to have an urgent procedure to carry out the loopholes which exist on permanent staff. The Medical Association of Kilkis Hospital asks for twenty-one doctor. He says there is a need for twenty doctors. It's not just that the doctors are away. It's not just that the spaces have been overwhelmed by patients, but also by their escorts. The problem is that the local population really has no access there. In order to solve the incidents quickly, two things are needed: doctors and an increase in the budget. The Kilkis Hospital cannot have a 27% reduction in the budget for 2016 compared to 2015 when in hospitals such as Kavala, Xanthi, Drama, we have an increase and, of course, in the hospitals of Thessaloniki we have an increase of 19% and 20%. You did well to raise the budget in the hospitals of Thessaloniki and the other regional hospitals, but we cannot at Kilkis Hospital have a 27% reduction. The problem of Identified was not created for a week. The problem of Asylum is all in 2015. Nourishments to the Ministry were constant both by the Association of Doctors and by the hospital commander - when there was - and by me with constant questions. We cannot therefore speak vaguely about the need to solve the problem, but do not give a direct solution. Direct solutions are two, Minister: Immediate increase in the financing of the hospital by at least the amount you deprive him of from the previous year. It is about 1,200,000 euros less than the 2015 budget. That is what you need to decide today. And the other is to find the solution, either by increasing the term of office of assistants, either through the moves you say, or in any other way the Ministry chooses to actually serve the hospital, from which there is a very large number of medical personnel missing. These two must be answered, Minister. I'm waiting for an answer, and I'm waiting for an answer, and Kilkis' society, which has shown its humanism. We are just waiting now for the official state to show that it understands these issues and not only verbally, but also actually stands next to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. Minister, you have the floor. I would ask you to be within the limits, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u52	Okay. Mr Colleague, in order to have contact with reality, our country is currently facing the greatest refugee - migration current after World War II. It is a social problem of enormous proportions which also plays a part in Europe's cohesion. In reply to this big issue, the future of Europe itself will be judged, in my view, and developments in the wider region will be sealed. This is a great test, which is obviously not just about our country, and for which there must be another kind of policy at European level too. And that's our main target. Now, fortunately, we agree that we don't have a health bomb. We have people who want special care, have health problems in the community and, of course, some of them need specialized hospitalisation and treatment. This is a burden on the system and we must move towards strengthening the system, especially in areas that are under great pressure. We did so on the islands: we have secured a programme from Europe of EUR 3.3 million. We've got a hundred and forty people we've placed right now. This is an important relief for local communities. Care for refugees has improved and the overall performance of public structures is beginning to improve. This also concerns the local population. This will now also be yours in the wider region.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u53	Kilkis alone has half the number of refugees that are all over Greece!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u54	We agree on the need. As far as the budget is concerned - we have checked it out and we are discussing it with the 4th RC - there was obviously a question of the good allocation of funds between hospitals in the Health Region. We'll make corrective moves. The overall budget for the health system is increased. In the third month of the year there is no resource problem in order to meet the current needs. Perhaps, if there is no additional funding, there will be a problem during the year. At this stage, the budget is not the problem. The problem is staffing with human resources. And that's where they need quick procedures. Unfortunately, the procedures of either recruiting ancillary staff, much more permanent, and even exploiting other industrial relations which we often have to use, such as blocks, are on the table. We are trying in every way to strengthen this process. We have also asked the European Union, from a special fund, the 'AMIF', a grant to hire health personnel for open hospitality structures. Mostly what is directly is through a consultation of the health structures in the region, putting the whole system in a situation of increased readiness and caution, to fill the most urgent gaps. The term of secondary doctors is all over Greece, after a regulation we made in spring, two years. One-year term is only in Athens and Thessaloniki. Two-year-olds are in all provincial hospitals. Three years is terminology in certain units, such as intensive, artificial kidney units, oncology sections, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u55	Only on paper is that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u56	Watch out, then. While this is well known, the hospital administrations have only pledged credit for the current year. This was not known to the candidates and they thought the notice was only one year old, and it is two years old. So it is a two-year term right now and the auxiliary doctors who will be recruited, to the extent that the hospital commits the credit and the next year can work for two years. So we know that there are problems, that is what we are going to do. We have made it possible in the latter law for the Minister of Health, exceptionally the President-in-Office, to be able to characterise certain areas as infertile and problematic sanitary areas. So we're updating this list right now and we're going to put other areas like Kilkis in the three-year term. This is predetermined and it's our commitment. I therefore think - and I am closing down with this - that at the present time this great social problem can only be tackled with the support of all the forces and bodies which our society has. It is time for all of us, both for the government and for the political system, both for self-government and for Europe. I believe that we have an excellent product of humanity and solidarity right now, especially by the citizens, but also by many players of self-government, local societies, voluntary organisations and social organisations, who have given examples of writing extremely and have contributed to the effort made by the state to have a central, regulatory and coordinating role to face up to this great need and pressure of the period.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the next topical question, let me make a statement to you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-eight students and students and two educational sessions from the 6th Kamateros Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Continue with the first with number 620/7-3-2016 topical question of Samos MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the Archaeological Resources Fund. Mr Baltas will answer the timely question. Mr. Sevastakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u58	Minister, thank you very much for coming to answer the question. The Archaeological Resources Fund, which was inspired, in particular, by Constantine Tripani, is one of the few mechanisms with which the Ministry can finance actions and actions, precisely during the period of incapacitation of funding for the entire public sector. It concerns the sale of goods, reproductions, tickets and within his interests or the possibilities of business, even expropriation or the financing of expropriation of archaeological sites or sites of archaeological interest. Because the preservation of cultural heritage is a productive question under the circumstances and because it is the only revenue manager, I would like to ask you, first of all, what action the Ministry intends to take to give this structural flexibility to the system itself and, secondly, how it advances, how it matures, how both the electronicisation of the ticket and the electronic control of the revenues are completed with greater clarity and reliability.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Sevastakis. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, thank you for the question, because we are being given the opportunity to the House in a very short time, to say a few things about the archaeological Resources and Expropriations Fund, which is, in a way, the economic arm of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, in relation to the economic use of all the archaeological sites and museums and related activities there. As you know, the new administration of the fund proceeds to a landscape that is not always very easy, because the interests that are invested around the archaeological sites are often many and not very clearly many times, in a landscape, which is quite difficult to move with the fastest possible steps towards real use of this tool, if I may. The first thing that has been completed and is in final consultation, in relation to the workers and their associations, is the fund agency. This is necessary, in order for the organic positions to be clear, to be able to have notices now that we are mainly allowed for IT specialists or accountants, so that at organisation level the fund is also what needs to be done. Now, more technically, in about two months, the establishment of a thing called 'ERP' in English and the translation of which is a 'central information system for the management of operational resources' will begin. This is an information system that connects museums, warehouses, online tickets, what happens every time. You can check very systematically what is missing and what is not missing in every archaeological site in flat things for sale, how many tickets have gone ahead, how you can design things further. With the same system there is an e-shop process, in short what can be sold there, and so, at technical level, things go fast. With the new tourist season, this will work and we will be able to slowly restore full operation in all these related processes. Electronic tickets. And this process has gone ahead. It cannot be done in all archaeological sites by one. It will start immediately from the Acropolis and Knossos, which are the main archaeological sites and those that produce the largest revenue. From there on, there is a bidding competition for museum refreshments, which in some museums is a little tragic. These must also be modernised and made decent for tourists and not just. The design contest has also been completed for objects that can be sold at museums and archaeological sites, inspired by performances or ideas related to the archaeological site. The results of the design contest were published. It's nice the things artists have proposed. From there on, we are in the process of ordering these things, obviously by competition. There's two more - three things. I will be given a chance to answer the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Sevastakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u62	I'll start with the last one. In other words, beyond the interpretation - because the design is a form of interpretation of the 'product', of the cultural good - there are certified replicators who retire and therefore the relationship between the Archaeological Resources Fund and sculptors who will play certified copies, which are also growing exponential goodwill, must be renewed. I've got the natural, analogue visitor. I can also have the visitor of the image, the visitor, the holder of the copy. This creates a very dynamic picture and a great potential for developing the ways in which the museum or the archaeological site not only has revenue but strengthens its cultural identities and identity. In addition to the electronization of sales and the "virtual" dispersion, it would be important to note that in 2014 the Archaeological Resources Fund had some 54-55 million revenues. It is indeed a valuable source in the area of culture, which is the most marginalised or at least economically marginalised and assessed during the period of crisis. We must also say that this reciprocity legalises cultural action in the eyes of the public of average consciousness. The cultural and qualitative documentation of reproductions, works, versions, interpretations of the archaeological site, I also think, is a kind of added value which can potentially be extended to all archaeological sites, even those we do not currently have the capital to make use of. Therefore, the concept of the archaeological landscape in its diversity is reinforced by the dispersion of image and three-dimensional reproductions, which is why I insist very much on modernising this aspect of the operation of the Archaeological Resources Fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Sevastakis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u64	We fully agree on this, and I would add that the financial operation of the EFF is also interesting, because the production of certified copies from the EFF with very strict standards is an activity which - if you like - at the level of the crafts sector with all the efforts that are being made to make the proper use of archaeological sites and museums. One is that. The second moves in exactly the same direction. There is also a need to rationalise the costs of the EDF. This means that the sites in which he is somehow scattered - his workshops, his administration, etc. - they must be consolidated. As far as possible, rents should be reduced. In this direction we are in a systematic discussion with the National Bank so that on that plot of Piraeus 260, which is what the Athens Festival is using mainly, a piece of buildings can accommodate the EFF and the rent, which will be obliged to pay the EFF to be hosted there, it is built in an agreement with the bank so that the overall savings of resources go to the benefit of the Ministry as a whole. Because, with the corresponding "contract", let's say, at the end of a period, which we will discuss with the bank, the whole area will come to the ownership of the Ministry of Culture, while, at the same time, "Piraeus 260" will be a form of dialogue, if you like, of ancient heritage and contemporary culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move on to the next timely question, let me take two announcements: Firstly, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House on 9-3-2016 a criminal case law concerning the former Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Evripidis Stylianidis, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 ‘Prime responsibility of the Ministers’, as is the case. Secondly, the President of the Group of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas and the Members of his party tabled a proposal for a law on 9-3-2016: "Reinstate a lower wage, reintroducing the 13th and 14th pensions, 13th and 14th wages. Arrangements for Collective Work Agreements and repealing anti-territorial provisions’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The third under number 613/3-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the MEP Evia of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the destruction of the catch by vegetarians is not discussed due to the Minister's obstruction. Likewise, due to the impediment of the Minister, the fifth is not discussed under number 624/7-3-2016, a top-level question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Athanasios Pafili to the Minister of Finance regarding the privatisation plans of the company "LARCO" and the safeguarding of the jobs of its employees. Also, due to the impediment of the Minister responsible, the seventh under number 615/3-2016 is not discussed by a topical question of the first cycle of MP I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, concerning the possible establishment of offices of a Turkish organisation in Greece. We enter the sixth cycle under number 622-7-2016. First cycle question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance on the management of the sanctuary. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Tree Alexiadis, will answer. Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. We are entering the tourist season and we are in a situation in which we need to make clear the management of the hays in relation to the revenues and the legality and regularity that the state has to govern now, since we have been in management and the government over the past year and a half. Since the Council of State has already considered the conceivable process of granting the right to rent to the municipalities and the Ministry of Finance has not yet made any legislative arrangements on this matter, some questions arise. The decision of the Council of State did not surprise anyone and should not surprise them that it reflects the unacceptable situation on many beaches, which are "principally occupied" by umbrellas, sunbeds, seats, tables, because of the lack of controls. However, the Ministry, in collaboration with the operators, had already found a formula for the management of the beaches in a legitimate way. This, of course, goes beyond the legality and revenue of the public and the municipalities - it is also about the image of our country in terms of tourism, which is also the heavy industry in our country. This is a very serious matter. In addition, the municipalities, according to a statement from various mayors, as I will develop in my denture, have lost hundreds of thousands of euros from the revenues from the management of the sanctuary. You ask yourself, Minister: How do you intend to handle the issue of sanctuary after the decision of the Council of State? What about the municipalities, which had included the revenues from the management of the haystacks in their budget, and which would jeopardise many of their projects, losing revenues? In addition to the unconstitutional nature of the management of the sanctuary, will you mediate to extend the concession of the sanctuary, at least for this year, so as not to lose the revenues from the municipalities, until the State has taken care of and carried out the law that must be used to clarify the management of the sanctuary and the relationship with the municipalities? Finally, do you intend to ask the municipalities to find a definitive proposal to resolve the issue over the next few years? Are we going to have a consultation with them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, I would agree with you that there is one problem we have to solve. I do not, however, agree with the wording of a chaotic situation in the Ministry of Finance or the lack of direct reflexes from the Ministry and the relevant bodies. I think that when the evidence is submitted, you will find out for yourself what the reality is. The S.H.E.'s decision. He escaped in November 2015. The Ministry of Finance came in January 2016 because it is not issued the following day. We have now reached a meeting with the relevant ministries, with the Ministry of Interior and the other Ministries, because you know that the decision has to come out of the Ministries of Home Affairs, Economics, Culture, the Environment and, with the structures and functions of the public, it is not easy to coordinate and it is not easy to do these things. Nevertheless, there has been a direct mobilisation and activation of all, and so we now have given the fact that, on the basis of this decision by the Council of State, it is stopping a previous chaotic situation, which did not honor the country. This decision, I believe, will help very much to protect coastal subsystems at risk of over-exploitation and the whole process and the implementation of the decision by the Ministry of Finance will be done with full respect, always in order to ensure the interests of the Greek public and environmental protection. I stress again that the Ministry of Finance, as with a previous decision on the objective values, is now following the judgments of the courts, respects justice, cooperates with it. After all, we are trying to impose tax justice and we know what its problems are. As far as these issues are concerned, I should like to say that for the life-saving work it is compulsory to recruit seafarers by the operators who manage these areas. It's not a matter of the Treasury. So whoever has the corresponding space must be recruited by seafarers. It does not appear that the powers of such delegation are exclusive competence of the municipalities. It belongs to any body having a bath or similar facility. The cleanliness of the beaches is exclusively the responsibility of the municipalities, based on this legislation. On the basis of a document from the Ministry of Culture, we would like to inform you that the process of collecting data on land and archaeological sites has already begun and that data from most of the inventions of antiquities have already been collected. The Department of Modern Antiquities has compiled a table with all the proclaimed ones of archaeological sites. Finally, with a document from the Ministry of Environment and Energy - all these documents will be submitted to you in order to have a better information - in the new ministerial decision, a simple use of saithe and beach blockage will be identified, on the basis of protected objects and obligations arising from national and Community law, and there will be further conditions and restrictions on the effective protection of the natural environment of coastal ecosystems. So there's no chaotic situation. There is a direct activation and the assurance I have from the Secretariat-General for Public Property and from the Secretary-General responsible, Mr Majakos, is that by the end of March the joint ministerial decision will have come out of the four ministries which will resolve this issue. We will be well prepared before the tourist season to deal with these problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, very much, Minister. It's important news that you're giving us today. There is a news coming out, which is very important for both the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of the Interior and for the municipalities themselves, who will now be in a normality, which no government has succeeded until now. From now on, the blurred landscape must be cleared up. And because here we have to tell the people truths, as we record and in the Minutes to say that each municipality, especially in areas of high tourist interest, has the same interest and benefit as some piece being legal and some illegal, because these were never controlled. We've all gone on vacation and we know what's going on. At the same time, however, we must be careful, because - fortunately or unfortunately - the legal income they had from the one to whom they gave the subcontracting or rental of the saint for its management touches some dozens or hundreds of thousands of euros per municipality. This revenue was a complementary legal income, with municipal documents. We must look at this year, as soon as possible, as you can assure us, so that the municipality does not lose this revenue. Because the loss of this income and closed shops will lead to less fees, less taxes, less water, less revenue in general, and it will be difficult for the municipality to cope with its work, which is not only to pay employees, but also to do works in the municipality. It's part of his budget from that revenue. To conclude by saying that it is important to inform us and, if you wish, to come back with another question at the end of the month or the first ten days of April, to see whether the procedure has gone ahead, because, from what you have said, it is four co-legislative ministries. We need to coordinate them, in order to give the municipalities and tourist agencies the opportunity to organise, to be normal, to have their income and to have a good and safe picture, and with the lifeguards, as you rightly said, on our tourist beaches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u71	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u72	Very soon, I will only say a few words. As I have explained, there will now be a new environment with the new ministerial decision. Without wishing to pete ears either in the Ministry of Finance or in other ministries, we were not honoured by this situation, which has existed so far in some areas. There were some areas which were not properly managed. The decision of the TEI now creates the framework for protecting the beaches, protecting the archaeological sites, coastal ecosystems and ensuring the revenues of the municipalities and the public. Because in this whole process, our beaches will be better upgraded and protected, so we can have better revenue for all, but above all serve our heavy industry, tourism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The fourth question under number 616/3-2016, first question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdou to the Minister of Finance, on bonds of natural persons, will be discussed. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Alexiadis. Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, before I refer to my timely question, please very much tell us whether you have a timeline picture of when the draft law will be submitted, which will make changes and supplements to Law 1354/2015, given that since December 16 on public wage issues and on special categories, for example, for employees of the Ministry of Finance, you have been reserved as a Ministry of Finance to see the specific issues and to come back with supplements. Now we are learning that, because you want to regulate a matter about ADD wages, the independent administrations, you will cover within this draft law and all other issues. It would be very good for the National Representation to learn your timeline, because we as parliamentarians also receive continuous questions from stakeholders and have no picture. Now, on the substance of my question, when the PSI was made, Minister, I was a Minister of Health. I supervised too many companies whose public debts to them had been settled with bonds of the Greek State, with a cut in the amount of the Greek public debt of 30%, 35% and 40%. Also, there were other categories of citizens, such as judges, but also small investors who had trusted the Greek State even in 2010-2011. For reasons of equality and of exclusion from the treatment of other investors in Greek bonds, mainly insurance funds and small investors and outside Greece, the decision taken on the PSI was too strict to exhaustive for these small investors. Then, at that dramatic meeting of the Ministerial Council, we decided never to leave this issue behind and to do everything we can at some point help this world. I myself, as a Member, after the June 2012 elections that I was not Minister, had submitted to all the ministers in 2012 and 2013 relevant topical questions, which I am doing today. Because what I promised I would keep, Minister. I am not going to forget these people's accusations. I believe that the Greek state has an obligation with alpha or beta to satisfy some of their demands. I have timely questions, Mr Alexiadis, since October 2012, December 2012 and October 2013, and I am coming back today. We must not forget what I had proposed and that is what I am closing down. I had proposed that a set-off should be made with the solidarity levy, because it is very difficult for the Greek state to take some measures directly in favour of them, as this will create data on outstanding cases in other countries - such as in Germany where there are outstanding cases and from what I am hearing, one of them is led to the Constitutional Court - and so that there is no such situation that would jeopardise what was achieved in February 2012. The contribution of solidarity is a contribution of all Greek citizens and their contribution to the crisis. Micrologues have helped the Greek state and have expressed their solidarity. So I come back, Mr President, and ask the Treasury if it has something in mind and in my denture I will say something more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u75	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, you raise a point about wage issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u77	The question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u78	This is a general responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, but not mine. It's Mr. Juliaraki's. So I should not take a stand on this. You must address these issues to Mr Juliarakis. As far as your question is concerned, part of it is tax content and I reply. There is also a part of it which concerns another competence, and you must address it there. With regard to the question of the contribution of solidarity and the argument you have that it is not a tax indiscriminately entering the public fund, but a levy in favour of unpunished citizens, and you propose this set-off or, anyway, the reduction, I should like to say to you: on the basis of the explanatory statement in Article 29 of the nnn. 3986, which imposed the special solidarity levy, the latter was imposed for budgetary purposes to cover our country's huge budgetary deficit and debt. It is not a reward, in order to be able to be used for a specific purpose, such as for the provision of tax-emissions to micro-enterprises. I put forward all the relevant documents, so that you can have a full picture of the services' replies. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Trif Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, I agree with you that it makes sense for these citizens, who have entrusted their money to the Greek public and the Greek State, to have been unable to respond to their essential obligation. We need to open up the dialogue on how to satisfy the injustice that has been done to these people, in a tax or any other way. This dialogue needs to be opened. However, it cannot be done in the present circumstances, as you can see, when we have the negotiating issues open and when we have the debt issue open. I mean, we can't do this today. We can't promise everyone. But that makes sense. We too have, as a political area, the sensitivity to this issue and, of course, a way must be found to restore the income that they have lost or, in any case, to reduce injustice against them. We also need to open a dialogue on how this whole story happened with the PSI and who were included in the PSI and what happened. Because we are trying to have a debate on the restoration of injustice, and we have to talk about how injustice was created, to be politically fair and to be able to deal with matters. And see if there was any other political possibility then and if there is another political possibility now. I would like to assure you, therefore, that the Ministry of Finance, given the financial problems that exist and all that we have before us at the present time, cannot now give a solution to the problem of these citizens. Of course, it is within our interests and our objectives and within what we are planning to tackle, as soon as we have the corresponding budgetary capacity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u80	The PSI, Minister - but we have said so many times and I do not want to take time from my speech - was a ransom intervention on the issues of Greek debt, since of the 160 billion benefits of the Greek state, an important piece was a clean haircut. He had this side effect. I am pleased that you - like your previous colleagues - are committed to ensuring that you do not forget and that at the first opportunity you will be able to see the issues of micro-enterprises with practical, substantial and effective interest. I believe that, by the majority of the potential, what will endure both the substance of the matter and the negotiation is a netting, part or all, with the contribution of solidarity. I suggest it to you. I've weighed it. I've seen it from a legal point of view. I have also consulted teachers under private international law. I believe that this is where the solution can be sought. The timetable regulates the Ministry of Finance in a better way. In this I cannot interfere or make an easy demagogue, I do not get used to it. But his data on the subject is clear. Now, as far as your retaliation is concerned, I have addressed Mr Tsakaloto. I was informed after that Mr Juliarakis has been responsible. He couldn't be here last Monday because he was in Brussels. He informed us in the most appropriate way. And while I was waiting today for Mr. Juliarakis to be here, I have been informed, since yesterday, of course, that it will be you. You are right, only part of the subject can be covered. However, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, as part of the Greek administration, is responsible for the overall problem. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Special question: I am learning - and I do not know if it is true - that, because some of these small investors, who trusted the Greek State, have appealed to the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the ECJ, the Greek State is turning against them and that the attitude of the lawyers of the Greek State is against them. If that's true, I need you to tell me. If you don't know, hold back. Because with regard to our position - which is common - the attitude of all the parties in this House - we want to know whether the Greek state operates centrally in the same direction and through its lawyers. Finally, I would like to say that it has dealt very strongly with the Greek society - I am not addressing you, Mr Minister - yesterday's Tusk declaration, which, Mr President, invoking the decision of twenty-eight last Monday, speaks of 'closed borders by a decision of the twenty-eight.' [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If that is true - and I am reluctant - then it means that the Prime Minister's statement, which we expected until the dawns to hear it - and I was one of them - was that the vast majority of the decisions of the Council of Heads which were accepted by the summit were also completely false. If that's the case, the Prime Minister shouldn't believe him when he tells us it's day after day. And for facts it's impossible to lie. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u81	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u82	I will respect the content of your question, Mr Papoutsis. I would also like to detract from what you have tried to do for the Prime Minister of the country and for our foreign policy at a time when we all understand the criticalness of the issues and which we all have to join in a national effort rather than trying to denounce each other politically. But I won't follow this road. I'll stay on the question. At the moment, the Ministry of Finance is trying to respond to the issues of negotiation, the implementation of the agreement and what we have to do. In this context, you know that these days there is a negotiation with its limits, with its difficulties and we believe in a positive conclusion, which will lead us to the next issues. So it's specific what we're doing right now. After this period and after the process that will begin the dialogue on the debt issue, there will also be a dialogue with society on the major tax changes that we need to make our tax system fairer and more proportionate. I fully agree with you on the injustice that has been done to these citizens. And your proposal for a set-aside with a solidarity levy is something that we will take into account. But every day at the Treasury, we're trying to record the injustices we have to manage. I could talk to the hours about this. For the HICP of the property to be paid by the "Ark" to put orphan children in Vonica, for the HICP burdening "The Smile of the Child", the VAT to the nursing homes, for the luxury tax on the cars of the tents? These are not our political choices. And because we often hear criticism and what you have said and what I have said, I would say that it is a political necessity, which has specific limits. But we believe that soon these limits will be lifted and we will be able to deal with these citizens' problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we continue the list of topical and urgent questions, let me make a statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, since they participated in the educational programme of the "Workery of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of Parliament, fifteen students and students and two attendants of their teachers from the 13th Municipal School of Peristeri. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The first under number 621/7-3-2016 topical question from the Member of Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Estathias (Efis) Georgopoulos - Saltaris to the Minister of Health, on the work of building the new wing of the hospital of Amaliad, is not discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. Likewise, the third with number 614/3-2016 topical question by MP 2 of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the "climatic intensity culture and the methods of the Turkish consulate in Thrace", is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. We enter the second under number 619/4-3-2016 topical question of the second question of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the suspension of the increase in VAT rates on the second group of the Aegean islands, which are facing the negative consequences of the immigration issue and which is due to enter into force on 1 June. The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Treasury Alexiadis. Here, Mr. Consola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the time really is too short to be able to develop in all its dimensions the very important issue that the President mentioned before about our question. But I will try, Minister, to be substantial and in the short time to be able to give a definitive answer to the very important issue for the islands. You know, Minister, from the past - I am sure - the very important institutionalisation from the past of the reduced rates of VAT on the islands. You also know that this was not a privilege, but it was a precondition for the development of social cohesion, but also for the development of the tourist and entrepreneurial spirit in the region. And you know very well the contribution of this provision to the national koruna. However, the abolition of the second zone of the islands from the reduced VAT rate on the islands has been planned as of 1 July. Minister, you know - and you have become a socialist in the past - that there was an orderly effort to be able to suppress this legislation, which has benefited the entire Greek society. I guess, by some, there was an end in it, there was a gladiator. You know, entrepreneurship in the Aegean had been possessed in 2015 and we had heard discussions at the National Representation. There was a boom and a charge for the islands that there is a transaction, there is a "black" of money, there is tax evasion. Get away from me. You know better than me what tax evasion means and probably existed, but all of it was not the cause. I remind you of the position Mr Varoufakis took in 2015 in a relevant timely question here in the House, where he opened the issue. But, as you know, VAT was not morally legitimized by the citizens of the Dodecanese, the islands in general, why do you know something? Those engaged in business activity on the islands are well aware of the enormous difficulties. A model of economy, a small scale of economy, was very important for the country's national effort at this time in particular. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, the total revenue from VAT for 2014 reminds you that it was about 13,613,000. In 2015, what happened? It was only 15 million more while the Ministry's budget and targeting was about 450 million euros. So how sure we're gonna go and win this year? [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] You know, Minister, it is certain that because of this decision by the government which was unilateral, competitiveness and the local economy have been affected, too. There is a great challenge compared to the coastlines for tourism, it creates a recession and a shrinking...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Consola, if you're kind, you have your dentistry to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u86	I shall conclude, Mr President. In Kos, Minister, the prerogatives are at the minus 36% this year. There were a hundred and eighty thousand cancellations last August. Lesvos has 90%. Chios minus 60%. Samos minus 40%. So is Leros. So what do we have to do? The state must commit this measure through the lifting of this provision and so we must be able to give a dimension of competitiveness and the State's support for entrepreneurs and islanders, because they have been affected by the influx of migratory flows at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Consola. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Treasury Alexiadis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mitterrand, just a week ago, on 3 March, I answered Mr Mitterraki's question on the same subject and I fully analysed all the data. But I am delighted to answer your question and why there is an obvious parliamentary obligation, and why these are issues which concern us and are at the forefront of our concerns. In particular, in the field of islands. We must stand as a society and as a Europe at the side of the islands for the test they are suffering and for their contribution, as you have said, until now and for their contribution specifically at this time. Because what is happening on the islands at this time and with the wave of solidarity between the islands is really a cultural lesson that I believe will remain in modern European history. And I wish others would follow. But let me clarify something here. You refer to your question that these islands at our border with Turkey are in the second group. That's not the case. We have three groups of islands. The first group of islands has been selected under specific criteria. We didn't choose her in luck. We have blocked the border islands, other than Rhodes, because of special economic and other situations, and we have taken from the other islands with specific criteria, with specific tables, the islands most visited in tourism, which had the largest infrastructure. We're in front of a problem. We need to choose the other two groups in June 2016 and January 2017. At the moment, we have not come to an end because of the problems that exist. We should have come up with a message to the islands as to what they will do. In order to get us to a rapid bad decision, however, it is better to get rid of all possibilities so that we can go to a decision that will not cause problems. At the moment, therefore, it has not been decided that the islands on the border will be in the second group. That's not the case. It's on the issues we're discussing and we're trying to see how we deal with them. We will be consistent with the obligations under No.4336 but without creating self-evident problems. Because if you add another problem to these islands at the moment, the results will be concrete. I would like to stress, however, the comparison that you make with regard to VAT. If you compare 2013-2014, you will see that while 2013-2014, the number of tourists increased, the VAT collection on these islands fell. We had a reduction in VAT. In 2014-2015, due to the many controls we made in the summer and also because of the increase in rates, we had an increase in rates in the islands. I will try to find the details just for each island, to have for 2013, 2014 and 2015 the full picture of what is going on. VAT in general 2014-2015 and 2015-2016 moved very well, considering that in 2015, due to the capital controls and the economic crisis, we had a great drop in consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before continuing the development of his current question, the honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen, is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by a number of Western theories of the House, after being informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates and was toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", fifty-five students and students and three teachers from the 1st High Crete, the 1st Department. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are going with MP Emmanuel Konsola, Member of the Dodecanese of the New Democracy, to continue developing his timely question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have listened to the Minister earlier to rejoice with the fact that, despite the capital controls, VAT has gone well. Minister, I do not know whether we should be reluctant to increase the tourist rates on the islands, to increase the rates in the first-needed species, but above all to increase a factor that we decided on, because we had submitted evidence to the National Representation, to increase the rate in the focus where you understand very well that by reducing revenues we had. This is just one example. I will say that the evidence that you have put it, I do not question them, but, unfortunately, there is a philosophy of the government, which really goes on the road to the tourist product as a whole. I do not know whether there is credibility in the government in planning and documentation for suspending the increase in VAT rates that we are asking for today. Minister, I would like to remind you and turn your memory a few days ago in the Senate Hall, where the President of the National Representation, Mr Voutsis, said that the reduced rates of VAT on the islands were punishable by lenders. I'll repeat it. Mr Voutsis said that the islands were punished by our partners. But you know, we were under pressure too, but we didn't give in because we had evidence. I remind you of the study of the Institute of Taxation and Economics. I would remind you of dozens of studies that have shown that the reduced rates of VAT on the islands were not a privilege but the minimum condition for survival and recovery of a negative climate, particularly at this juncture. Who really caused this abolition of reduced rates of VAT? I guess, Minister, it was caused by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the debate, the revolts, the intolerance and the contradictions. I remind you of the referendum, the creative ambiguity of the unfamiliar memory, Mr. Varoufakis. I mentioned some information about the reservations before. Of course you didn't question them. They show you at what dangerous point the prerogatives for the tourism product are. I would also like to put to you the figures on the tourist product on the cruise. So listen. Mytiline. He will accept twelve cruise ships this year in relation to the fifty three that he accepted last year. Chios. Twelve out of forty two last year. Kos. Thirty-forty-one. Symphony. Twenty-three-six. Minister, we need to give these islands an additional impetus. We must not go into that logic of choosing one or the other. I respect what you say, that it was a hasty decision, but should we look again at the decision to withdraw this tragic decision for the country, to abolish the reduced VAT rates on the islands? Why did you decide on Rhodes? Because Rhodes is the transfer of goods, services and goods. As a result, the coefficients for the whole Aegean are effectively abolished. Minister, in order to stimulate the local economy and develop a model, you must also speak to the Ministry of Development. It's not your responsibility. We must give development law additional incentives for three reasons that I have described, firstly, for the previous situation, secondly, because there is no financial benefit on substance, thirdly, because it is a blow to tourism. Please rethink the revocation of this decision by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr. Consola. The Deputy Minister, Mr. Treasury Alexiadis, has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u92	Mr Papoutsis, I am often compelled to come back with a point of order again and say the same thing about a monotonous argument from your side, because you are trying to blame the government on the misery of the tax system. The responsibilities for the misfortune of the tax system are not our political choice. Because I often hear your political officials talk about overtaxation, we are not tax, taxes, taxes. Remind me of the example. In the property sector where you are supposed to be more sensitive to political space than six hundred million of the taxes on the property of earlier memoranda have, of course, reached 3.3 billion. The collection is 2.65 billion. So this constant criticism that we in one year - we have not closed one and a half - are to blame for all the sufferings of the country, I cannot understand it. We have often been critical of the government's attempt to solve a problem, without analysing who is to blame for the problem. Who brought the country here? Who created these economic and social problems? But let us come to VAT. Because there is always a criticism of VAT and because the opposition is trying to make the world forget who voted for these provisions and to say for us, for the government, "You voted for it, it is your fault", I would remind you: No.4344-July 2015 - the initial increase in rates for the islands was voted by two hundred and twenty-nine Members. Law4326 - the second category - was passed on 13 August by two hundred twenty-one MPs. So we are accepting a criticism, because we are implementing an agreement to keep the country in Europe and on a specific course, which you have voted on too. I understand your political criticism, I understand the deadlocks and problems of the time, until anyway, what they say "seat the ball" and see where you will head from here or there, but find somewhere else to criticize the government. The government has a stable course, and we are ready, if there are proposals - which have not been tabled so far - for any equivalent, to change this tax with a fairer and proportionate tax. Clearly for the government the increase in VAT on the islands and in general the increase in indirect taxation is not within our political DNA. It is a political necessity that we have to manage.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the fifth under number 625/7-3-2016 topical question by the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Stavros Tassos, concerning the health minister's shortcomings in the hospital and, more generally, in the public health sector in Lesvos, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The sixth question, under number 588/29-2-2016, is a timely second question by MP Fthiotidas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Astalos Karastasis to the Minister of Health, concerning the problem of the operation of the General Hospital of Lamia, in the same way, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. We enter the debate on the seventh under number 584/29-2-2016 topical question by Attica MEP M. Mavroudi Voridis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the implementation of the Ministerial Decision concerning the concession of Olympic Village sports facilities to the Municipality of Acharnon. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Urania Antonopoulou. We are giving Mr Voridis the floor to develop his timely question in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by saying that the expression of dissatisfaction, as your predecessor has put it in the Chair, representing the Bureau, Mr President, on the fact that the government answers 40% of the topical questions, is, in my opinion, an extremely lenient approach to the phenomenon. The Bureau of Parliament, the President himself, must inform the Prime Minister that his Government, its ministers systematically despise Parliament and that parliamentary control is not at their discretion, if they want, they come and if they want, they respond. It is a central democratic function and a basic prerogative of counter-population. The government has the legislative initiative. The main prerogatives of opposition are parliamentary control. If canceled, a central pillar ceases to function. And that's not about parties. We are all concerned as parliamentarians and government and opposition leaders. By the way, I'm not interested in matters of abruptness, who's gonna call, if the secretary calls, or if the minister calls, I don't care. I'm interested in the operation. As to the question. There is a ministerial decision, Madam Minister, your predecessor, Mr Brutsi, which I know you have not recalled and which - in my opinion - is correct, for reasons which have been adequately assessed and evaluated, if I have to bring them back, I will do so - to grant specific sports facilities currently managed by the Organisation for the Workplace in the Olympic Village. Closed gyms, swimming pool, a stadium, the court irrigation pump, tennis courts, parking spaces. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In ten seconds I shall end, Mr President. It gives these a loan to the Municipality of Acharnon. Let me remind you that the municipality of Acharnon is the fourth largest municipality in a population, but the first municipality in poverty, unemployment and in infraction. It therefore remains for a contract to be signed to regulate the details of the functioning of the Ministerial Decision. So the question is: What are you going to do with it? Will you proceed with signing the contract, as set out in Mr Brutsi's Ministerial Decision, or do you have anything else in mind? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Voridis. Mr Urania Antonopoulou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I would like to answer your question, starting with the fact - which you know very well - that the Municipality of Acharnon has made this request since 2008. He'd brought it back, but nothing happened. And we come with a ministerial decision - when? - on 30 December 2014, that is a few days before the national elections, a few days after the national elections had already been called, to sign this ministerial decision. It is natural - together with a couple of fifteen other decisions that had been made for OAS, all signed at midnight, at the end of the month - to open the files and review them, so that we can understand exactly what happened and why in fact at 12 o'clock some actions were taking. So, let me go ahead and say that beyond that - I leave that, we have looked at it - there are some issues that arise here, because the concession to the municipality has not been followed by an analysis, a documentation that the municipality can indeed manage it. The municipality, as you know, is indebted. He's the fourth most indebted municipality in Greece. In fact - along with another municipality - it almost happened - that you remember that there was no part to be allocated from the troika, from the institutions, in Greece, because there was a huge problem and a hole in the back. So, we didn't have that clue. So we had to investigate it. I would like to say to you, however, that the most important point here is that the General Secretariat of Sport has proposed the need for a second Olympic coaching centre, if these facilities are suitable. Indeed, this is particularly imperative in the event of the sale of the sports facilities of Agios Kosmas, which will probably go ahead. So, let me briefly say, from 2004 to 2015, we had not gone as a country - the previous governments, but I do not want to get into this process - in the phase of post-traumatic adjustment that took place in projects, to see what will happen to the Olympic Village as a whole. In addition, we had not made progress in the provisional regulation of the Olympic Village management body of all properties and all that property in the public interest, nor had the temporary concessions, with which two thousand three hundred houses, as you know, had been granted to Olympiacos. We are now coming to set up all this so that - first of all - there can be an overall report on what we have and what can be done. So we have come to heal it, but I keep hearing these complaints, these kinds of questions from the Opposition when He knows this evidence. As regards the sports facilities to which you refer, I would like to say the following: There is the municipality's agreement on the recommendation of the General Secretariat of Sports for the assignment to the General Secretariat of Sports. We are very close to handling. He's going through the OAED Board of Directors. Very soon - by the end of the month - I'm sure this whole thing will be over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Minister. I have failed to say before, in reply or comment on what Mr Voridis said, that he is absolutely right. He's absolutely right! It is a situation that continues - I do not know at what rate, I do not care about the pace - and it is actually annulled or sent to a degree one of Parliament's two main functions. That's what I can say. The President of Parliament has said so. We will continue our protest, I would say - not our pressure - towards the government and the Prime Minister in order to return to a normal parliamentary life. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Your position and the position of the Bureau on this matter are very important. Madam Minister, let's go to this now. I want to finish this, because I hear from government ministers all the time,'sometime in 2004 and after 2008, something after 2012, someone said', etc. You're in the government. Lexis! And you're not in the government for a month. You've been in the government for over a year now. So you have to deal with them. Any way you think, but deal with them. The answer,'sometime someone did something' does not exist and does not make any sense. They don't care about the citizens of the Acharnes. It does not concern citizens what happened two and a half years ago or five and a half years ago. They don't care! They're interested in how to regulate their livelihood right now. And that will be regulated by the government. So tell us specific words, specific things. Because you said it was before the elections etc., I want to tell you that the Board of Directors' decision was on 23-10-2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u99	It's not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u100	What isn't? Here's the protocol number 89/138. On 23-10-2014 the OAED Board of Directors accepted the request of the City Council for a concession in the form of a loan. A 2014 procedure has therefore been initiated since October. The ministerial decision, which actually implements what the OAS's Board of Directors has said, actually comes out on 30 December. Now what do we do? I don't understand. Are we invoking the Minister for why did he implement the decision of this Board of Directors? Good. And I did not understand your answer now on the substance. What are you gonna do? I heard something that the General Secretariat wants something and so on. We are not talking about the General Secretariat of Sports. Here we are discussing whether you will withdraw this ministerial decision. In order to reach agreement, Mr President, with the ministers, the ministers have the opportunity to withdraw ministerial decisions - their right - and to issue new ones. Until then, however, they are regulatory acts which bind them. That you became Minister doesn't say you're in a void of law. You're in a certain legal reality. Question: Will you withdraw it? Will you get back what Brutsi did? Will you get back to the decision of the OAED Board of Directors? They said that they grant these properties a loan to the Municipality of Acharnon. You guys gonna do something else? What are you going to do? I have now heard another approach. Did you tell me in 2008 that this started? Yeah. And what did you tell me now? That you will sit down and make an overall assessment of the issue of Olympic Real Estate to see how the overall operation will be done and how will you make distributions depending on something? Yeah. What we are now discussing will not be done in 2008, but in 2028. There's a municipality with certain pressing needs. The municipality wants to make use of facilities that are currently doing nothing. And the government's answer is, would you sit down and make an overall assessment of the needs for Olympic Real Estate and a comprehensive design? And I deprive the young people of this particular municipality of the opportunity to engage, why is the municipality in debt? What do you say? Tell me specifically what the government's position is. Will you withdraw the ministerial decision or will you implement the ministerial decision? Are you going to grant the properties, or are you not going to grant the properties? I want a yes or no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr. Vorides. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" twenty-three Dutch students from the Marnix Gymnasium of Rotterdam. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u102	Mr Voridis, first of all you are constantly looking at issues which, when you do so in your word, you think they expose our own government. I shall therefore repeat this: in the years 2004-2015, you have done nothing to create an institutional framework so that now we must not take the time to set it up. You want to falsify things? Go ahead. But they're listening. He hears you and people understands. I would therefore like to come to the answer I have tried to give, but obviously it was not understood. The decision and direction are very clear. But the withdrawal of a document and a procedure must be done. Who's that? The government needs to substantiate the argument of national interest, which is why we will, of course, withdraw - the ministerial decision. By documenting this, from there on we have the OAED Board of Directors, which passes before the end of March this decision and the city's agreement, as I mentioned before. This process will therefore be over very quickly. The fact that they had not been rendered as they should have done so far, people have paid for it all these years. So we come to heal, do and end this case, which has had to be over for many years. The decision you said had been made, Mr. Voridis, by OAED in April 2014...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u103	October.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u104	All right, because before I heard 'April'. It's the end of October.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u105	October 23rd.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Minister. The eighth question under number 582/26-2-2016 for the second cycle of the Member of Parliament I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and the Aegean, regarding the provision and safeguarding of the working relations of the employees at the Piraeus Port Authority, following the sale of the majority package of shares in the PPA, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The ninth under number 583/26-2-2016 a topical question by MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the "delegation of our Macedonia's name to the scoppiens", is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The tenth under number 545/15-2-2016 topical question of the second Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zaroulia to the Minister of Health, on the problems of operation in the EKA, is not being discussed. The twelfth, under number 590/26-2-2016, a topical question by the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the immediate reopening of the recycling plant in Heraklion Crete and the reintegration of workers from "WASTE - SOLUTIONS", is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The first question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, concerning the lifting of restrictions on the issue of tourist visas from Russia, is not debated because of an impediment by the Minister, as Mr. Xydakis is abroad. We will close with the eleventh question under number 589/29-2-2016, the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning measures to ensure the cleanliness of the school units and the working rights of cleaners/cleaners employed in the schools of the country. The question will be answered by Minister Nikolaos Friends. Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor for two minutes to develop his question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this has been discussed many times. Everyone has stressed that the issue of cleanliness and hygiene in schools is a serious issue for the student population. However, for another year, we are discussing the same issue and the reason is that the problem is not dealt with with by sufficient permanent staff. This, in our assessment, is an urgent need. In all schools in the country, so far, they have been working on the cleanliness of the schools about eight and a half thousand workers. The problem with the employment relationship of these workers was not born, of course, now. For years governments have not faced the problem and have chosen the path of renewal of contracts, keeping this whole world uncertain and in a working regime characterised as a terrible thing. Let us also point out that an amount is usually paid against their accrued earnings and almost always paid late months for workers. This staff, with these working relationships, raises to their shoulders the critical area of health and cleanliness of school units. We say this, Minister, because permanent staff have been very lacking and, in particular, lately with many of these things being retired. In June 2016, Minister, the contracts of these workers expire. For the teaching year 2016-2017, contracts, in accordance with existing legislation, will be drawn up by the relevant municipalities. On the basis of the existing institutional, restrictive framework governing recruitment to municipalities, it is forbidden, Minister, to renew contracts. Thousands of cleaners and cleaners will be fired. The government must not let things evolve with the existing framework. We need, in our assessment, to take measures and deal with this serious issue. School cleaning cannot be delivered to contractors, Minister. And a solution is not the COMIPs. In view of the above, the government needs - because time is not enough - to deal with the matter directly. The position expressed and proposed by the JRC is that the Government should ensure that this operation is financed, that all workers' contracts are renewed. And this, along with the permanentization of this cleanliness staff, can give a definitive solution to the problem. The questions, Minister, are on these issues. If, in fact, you will actually proceed with the early renewal of contracts, if the permanent solution in schools, by permanentisation of staff without conditions and conditions, you will proceed and how you will ensure that the workers are paid on time. Of course, we also need to ensure that all this operation is financed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u108	Thank you Mr Christos Katsotis, MP of the Communist Party of Greece. He now has the floor for three minutes to answer, the Minister for Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Nikolaos Friends.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I share your view that the rights of all workers must be guaranteed, and in particular - because that is the issue we are discussing - of the cleaning of school units. It is clear that the government is doing everything possible in the context of the economic closeness that exists to ensure all the rights to work. You know that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has made progress since last year on the return of school cleaners made redundant, as well as school guards, as available in order to satisfy those people who have unjustly been fired, but also to respond to the very serious tasks which exist in the field of school cleaning. I want to assure the National Representation that there is no problem with ensuring the employment relationship between cleaners and cleaners of school units. Of course, we cannot proceed with new recruitment of permanent staff. You know the problems that exist and you know that if there is a priority right now for recruitment to education, it is for recruitment of teachers. However, I do not understand why, while you are right to say that there should be no contraction arrangements for the cleaning of schools, you are rejecting the solution of the COMIPs, that is to say, forms of workers' own initiative in order to be able to respond to their own job. Also, with regard to the issue you have raised, I would like to assure you that the issue has been settled by Act of Legislative Content on 28-08-2015, on the conclusion of project rental contracts for staff employed in cleaning for the year 2015-2016. It concerns, obviously, those positions which are not covered by the organic positions in the area of cleanliness. In addition to this arrangement, the Ministry of Interior was given the opportunity to take the necessary steps to enable the municipalities concerned to become able, from the teaching year 2015-2016, from this year onwards, to conclude these cleaning contracts. For this year, INEDIBIM, which is supervised by the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, was designated as a Contracting Party to finance local school committees, which are responsible for concluding project rental contracts with contractors - cleaners or cleaning workshops in primary and secondary schools not covered by cleaning staff, which serves in organic positions. INEDIBIM finances school committees according to a grant flow from the Ministries of Education and Finance. INEDIBIM has received funding for the school cleaning program, with a ministerial decision, the amount of EUR 15,564,000 for September to December 2015 and EUR 20,000,000 for January to June 2016. It is true that there is a two-month delay in paying the wages of the cleaners and we do everything that can be covered. I would remind you that last year and again there was more delay. I don't call it an alibi, but that's a bad tradition. We are also trying to cover the part of their remuneration lost, due to the way their work is calculated, in the last ministerial decision. For 2016-2017 and provided that the needs of the municipalities for the cleaning of school units are not met by the existing staff, contracts drawn up by the relevant municipalities may be covered in accordance with the existing legislation. For the cost of these contracts, a special appropriation shall be entered in the budget of the Ministry of Interior, which shall be allocated by decision of the Minister in proportion to the municipalities concerned. So, as you can see, the competence and obligation of our Ministry is being stopped at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fifty-five students and students and two teachers from the 1st High School (B' Department) of Heraklion Crete. The House welcomes them. Let me tell you that you are attending a parliamentary control meeting. There is a certain procedure. It has been asked by the honourable Member that he has developed his question about the employment rights of cleaners working in the country's schools. The question is answered by the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Nikos Friends. We're in the middle of the process. The MEP has developed his question, the Minister first answered and now the honourable Member will answer for more time, Mr Katsotis. It will close the question, with three minutes, again the Minister of Education. I am sorry for the intervention, Mr Katsotis, but we need to explain to the children what they are following. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u111	It's okay, they're learning. After all, the issue concerns schools, the cleanliness of schools. Minister, you said that for 2016-2017 this matter will now belong to the Ministry of Interior. He's leaving your jurisdiction. However, Minister, these workers are in schools. The subject will be dealt with by students, teachers, teachers and, of course, by you. The Home Office won't deal with it. Of course, you have made a commitment from you, which is cleanliness, with these working relationships, because we have said that organic positions are very few now. I don't know, of course, if you have any information about how many are missing. However, this area, which is very important for the cleanliness of schools, for the health and safety of pupils, cannot remain so. It must have sufficient and permanent staff. This is a very important issue. You understand that. And I'm not saying you don't understand it and you don't care. But, Minister, the solution is not the COMPAs. The solution is to have a working relationship with the worker, with this working hours, with that wage. And you know very well that the wages of cleaners or school cleaners are too small a month, based on the hours they work. However, cleanliness should be what it should be. Nor should the logic be the profit, but a job that must be done diligently and ensure the safety and health of pupils, teachers and teachers in schools. We believe that there will be a serious issue, since this issue goes to the municipalities. Restriction on recruitment will lead to the dismissal of thousands of workers. You're saying they're safe. Where are they secured from? They're gonna have to do SOCIETY. The municipalities can't. What will the COMPAs ensure? So will the cleaners of a municipality be co-operative in order to clean up the schools and try here - and with the legal framework governing the COMPAs - with uncertainty and insecurity, as to whether they will actually be able to respond or have the wages they had before? They won't have him. So the COMIPs do not guarantee them. And why should the Ministry today have such an important matter to assign it to a cooperative worker organisation and not be controlled by the Ministry itself to ensure that - which we have said - the important issue for students and teachers? So our proposal is that. We believe that together with educational staff it is necessary for this staff to ensure this side which is very important. And the Ministry can and must deal with this issue, because it is not the contractors and the COMCOMPs. And it is not a solution to transfer the matter to another, because you, the Ministry of Education, will be dealing with this, because this work is also being carried out in this area.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u112	Thank you to MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis. The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr Nikolaos Friends concludes the answer. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u113	Mr Colleague, I agree with you that we need to ensure cleanliness, hygiene and safety in schools. This is not at stake at the present time, nor with the current regime - which we know - although it is a regime which is extremely prejudicial to employment relations for cleaners and cleaners, who do not have an organic position in schools. I repeat that there is no such danger. And I'm not saying that you imply it. No one is going to let there be, neither the Ministry of the Interior nor the municipalities. The State as a whole has a responsibility. There are no feuds and fragmentations. For the cleanliness inside the room is the Ministry of Education, in the yard is the municipality and it goes on to say. In addition, it has been the responsibility of the municipalities throughout the country for several years. So anyway, it is no longer the responsibility of the Ministry of Education that the issue of building facilities should be left to a general planning level, and the issue of cleaners and cleaners. I would like to assure you - and I agree with you - that it is not the contract profit, but it is the best pay of workers to clean up in education. That is why, as you have seen, I did not adopt the solution to the ILO. I think there are other solutions, such as the current state of employment relationships, employment contracts. However - and I am surprised why you deny it - it is also the subject of the COMMDs. There is a legal framework for it not to be one - one - one - the workers at each school, but the workers in a municipality, in larger units than a school, to be able to establish, with a greater potential for intervention and negotiation rights and to be able to offer better and better in cooperation with their work. You tell me, Greece is not used to such cooperative schemes. It is common with a government-oriented work and education. Yes, but we need to change some attitudes and some shapes - I repeat - by transferring no resources to self-government, but along with responsibilities and resources. And this is a fruitful debate to be held. And I agree with you, because you too have the anxiety of operating the school in the best way from September onwards, to be done in a timely manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Nikolao Friend. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-10-S1-commons.u115	With the consent of the House at 11.45 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 11 March 2016 at 10 a.m., on the subject of Parliamentary control, and the topical and urgent debate.
