ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting begins, since the quorum required has been established. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, Economy, Development and Tourism, and the Deputy Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism have tabled a draft law on 25-1-2016: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding on Maritime Cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Turkey". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I would also like to read the following letters to the President of Parliament: "Mr President, please, as you approve a few days' leave from Sunday 24 January to Monday 25 January abroad. MEP Christos Konstantinos Mantas". "Mr President, I now request an absence permit on 25 January, as I will be taking part in the official visit of the President of the New Democracy Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis to Cyprus. In honour, George Koumoutsakou". Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of the Ministers", as in force on 25-11-2015, a criminal case, concerning the former Minister of National Defence Mr Yiannos Papantoniou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Maritime Transport". The bill, known as it was passed by a majority vote in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. The Golden Dawn had voted 'present' in the Standing Commission and the Communist Party 'no'. So we start with the representative of the Golden Dawn. Mr. Kouzeli, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Fixed position of the People's Association - Golden Dawn is the geopolitical shift towards Russia. So we do not think it is right for a trade agreement with Azerbaijan and, in particular, when Azerbaijan is a vile country and racially related to Turkey. This creates a lot of problems for us. We are therefore voting against this ratification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much. As a Parliamentary spokesman for this matter by the Communist Party of Greece, Ms Manolakos has been appointed. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Such agreements, like today, have been signed with at least forty countries, such as the Philippines and others. They have exactly the same content, because they ensure uninsured seafarers from these countries in a legitimate way. The various articles and this Agreement therefore state that the Agreement is to be concluded within the limits of their relevant national legislation between the Contracting Parties. That is why the maritime unions are denouncing today, as are the previous governments, and I am reading exactly as they say: The SYRIZA - ANEL Government continues its predecessors' policy to serve the interests of armament. It does not promote the proposal of maritime unions that are against black, unsecured work. And it's all ships subject to n. 27/1975 to submit to the General Assembly crew statements and to any replacement of crew all seafarers under a collective contract of employment and social security are chartered by the General Assembly. That's what the naval unions say. Here's the recent announcement of five naval unions with special reference. I'm tabling it for the Minutes. This position has been repeatedly taken into account by the Ministry of Trade Shipping and the Government takes account of it. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, presents for the minutes the communication referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So the balanced and reciprocity-based agreement for the two countries - as the government and the majority representative supports, or even the Skills, which supports and encourages the conclusion of such agreements, or the other opposition parties, who consider themselves in the right direction and initiatives such as this to support Greek shipping - is not about maritime capacity but about the profits of shipowners. It is therefore another agreement with a specific objective to encourage cooperation exclusively among operators in the field of maritime transport - we are talking about logistics - which will ensure cheap, unsafe maritime capacity from Azerbaijan and new profitability without obstacles to speeding up maritime traffic, avoiding delays of ships, both by speeding up and by simplifying the conduct of port formalities in general, reduced fees and navigation charges in environmentally friendly tankers. Of course, this agreement is 2011 and the then government of PASOK signed it. The Agreement clearly states that the competent administrative and judicial authorities of each Contracting Party shall not assume any claims relating to the employment contract of a member of the ship crew of the other Party. In this sense it seems clear that logistics, although cosmopolitan, needs a country as a reference base, even if it uses an opportunity flag for its profit. It needs this country of reference not only to reduce the organic positions, wages and pensions that the Greek Government has promoted and promoted, but also to negotiate to ensure its profitability, as is done by this agreement, which was made by the previous government and continues to implement the current SYRIZA - ANLE Government. Isn't that the same thing about insurance? The insurance laws of the previous governments, which you have denounced in the past, promote them in the most reactive form. Only these opposition parties represent the minors for the crime in social security. The Communist Party of Greece therefore rejects what is missing the workers, the working class and their rights and strengthens the profits of the most brutal, most profitable capital, which is armaments capital. Of course, there is no impression at all that the other parties too support this agreement, since they support and support logistics. We are therefore voting against the agreement as a deep anti-government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-six students and five educational sessions from the General School of Atalantine. Welcome to the Greek Parliament! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, if you wish, you can take the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna need a lot less time. There has been sufficient discussion in committee. I think that all these issues have been raised and many others have been clarified. I'll just make two comments. With regard to the objection and the criticism that Azerbaijan has friendly relations with Turkey, I do not think that this may be an obstacle to our country's development of relations with trade, diplomatic and any other country that we are aspiring in the very course of Greece gaining much closer and friendly relations, as well as with each country. After all, proclaimed is our principle of multidimensional foreign policy. In relation to what Mrs Manolakou - and to the committee here today in the House - said, I think that this is a violation of the text. The issues he raised, at least in some dimension, are indeed there, but it is precisely about safeguarding and safeguarding labour legislation, about the functioning of the Office for Maritime Work, the General Secretariat, which has indeed been set up by the associations and we are discussing them, and we are committed that within the days we will also set up a special working group to raise issues relating to maritime work as to whether there may be 'airlocks' to allow uninsured work, the rules on shipping and all this. But I do not think - and I shall end with that, Mr President - that these are included in the regulations and provisions of this agreement. He's got twenty-two articles. I think that, as the majority rapporteur, Mr Armalene, has described it, it is an agreement and a balanced one and it is moving on the basis of uncertainty. The issues, which are also planned and regulated in relation to maritime work, if any, and where there are prerequisites, which are not covered by the relationships, but also by labour legislation and compliance with them, may also be embedded in this case. But that is no reason not to conclude an agreement and not to regulate a framework. The framework it regulates here is that workers will seek to resolve the problem in their own country and not to the judicial authorities of another country. You realise that this is absolutely legitimate and cannot be imagined that Greek workers will have recourse to Azerbaijan's courts or vice versa. The threat, I do not think, is - at least at the moment - particularly great. The country with which we conclude this agreement has no developed shipping nor any staff, a highly multiplier potential. I think that these are sufficient reasons to suggest to the House that this agreement should be adopted and ratified now, since Azerbaijan has ratified it since 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Loverdo, what do you want to talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, I am courageous to have your earlier choice. In these debates on the ratification of contracts made under Article 108, like this...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u12	On the basis of Article 112, which refers to 108.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u13	It is precisely on the basis of 112, which refers to 108, paragraph 2 of Article 112. You have quite rightly given the floor to the Parliamentary Representatives, to whomever they wanted, for two minutes also to be placed on general issues. If you intend to repeat it, I ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u14	Okay, I don't have to, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u15	In my turn. If other colleagues want...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u16	...because we have an epidemic of cancelling topical questions - so will the House not be seriously troubled - will I take it hierarchically: does the Parliamentary Representative or the SYRIZA rapporteur want the floor for two minutes on this matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u17	Maybe after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u18	As far as I can see, no. Do you want, Mr Adriane, to be a rapporteur, or do you, Mr Teddy, as a Parliamentary?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u19	If something doesn't happen...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u20	Golden Dawn is placed. Mr. Loverdo, from the Democratic Association, here you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, thank you very much first. It was a very good choice that you made and has led us to put forward a proposal to Mr Voutsi from this position - we will do so in writing - to use the discussions on sanctions for conventions. When Parliament and its agenda opens up, it is out of the question of ratification of conventions, which the conscientiouss do not take the floor - and rightly so, because it goes on under 108, which the procedures, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the House, are concise - to be able to speak on this issue and, more generally, on general issues. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the House cannot open up and close without integrating or allowing the wider socio-political dialogue to be incorporated into Members' arguments. It is not possible, in other words, for what we want to say, and for what we want to say about our country, the current issues, to go to the channels alone. If the House is open, the parties will be able to speak with their President or with their parliamentary representative in the process of expressing themselves. That is my point, Mr President. It will be our proposal, because Mr Voutsis knows that he is promoting the relevant process of changing the Rules of Procedure. And I would like to say, on the basis of the information we have, that in the Conference of Presidents we have been notified - you were there - by the President of Parliament that on Friday in the ratification procedure - because I think we have a ratification concerning the Ministry of the Environment - there will be an amendment on broadcasting and we do not know its content. Mr Kegeroglu informed us that he asked, but the President simply wanted to know about the procedure and not about the content. I take this opportunity to tell you that we want to know what exactly will be the content of this amendment. In conclusion, I would like to combine my argument with what we are concerned with today, and it is about yesterday's projection of a small film, one - how can I say it? - video at the SYRIZA event, which was relayed, apart from the SYRIZA event, by the ERT, and is about journalists, people and channels. The reference was humiliating - I saw it - in a way that I did not understand, Mr President. I've never lived that before. I've never lived in politics for so long. I'm closing up with one more thought. Ladies and gentlemen, it may be for some on the left, on the left, that they are left with stalinism and can be expressed in forms of political atrocity. However, from us, Mr President, this House has not missed the obligation to protect democracy, the freedom of expression, even those who oppose our views, and not to resort to obscene, fascist-style means of supporting ourselves. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we have lived well here, when you are abandoned by arguments, you are not saved by fascism or stalinism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u22	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u23	Cut something out!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u24	Well, just give me a minute to finish. Mrs. Vaki, one of the two will speak. Counsel and speak one of the two. But give me a minute to finish this particular subject of the contract. And then on the subject Mr Loverdos raised, I will ask the Parliamentary Representatives and whoever wants to speak. So, from the River for the contract, does anyone want to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u25	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u26	Of the Independent Greeks on the Convention, and not on the subject raised by Mr Lovers - will it be discussed then - does anyone want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u27	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u28	From the Centro Association to the Convention, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, I want the floor for the contract. You didn't hear me before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u30	About the contract and not about the other topic?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u31	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u32	Okay. Here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u33	I won't need two minutes, maybe I just need a minute. I take this opportunity, because it is a matter on which there will be a timely question in the future and because I have before me the Minister for Maritime Affairs, to remind you of something. Of course, we are voting for this convention, I am not talking about it. I just want to remind you that the Greek shipowners - and a man, who lives in Kipseli, who makes a very little life - could play a decisive role, Minister, in terms of the unemployment of the Greeks, of the Greek society. What do I mean? I'm taking this opportunity. We all know we have the biggest merchant fleet on the planet. We know that every day there are various forums to attract Greek shipowners to repair their ships to either Turkey or Cyprus or Singapore or Japan. Also, with the Scaramaga Shipyards and I do not know what else we could - I honestly tell you - cover a huge, large part of unemployment. And I won't talk about excesses in reminding of the five hundred thousand positions the analysts speak about. I'm talking about four hundred, three hundred, two thousand seats! That is, therefore, an issue that we should be looking at again. We all know that Greek shipowners have no dealings with either the Greek State or the Greek banks. What it takes is understanding. So I think we should see this piece that burns us - because our country is in crisis and the unemployment rate is high - in another spirit, and I think I have your understanding. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I will now conclude the first convention, and then before we enter the second convention I will come back, as I promised you, to the other subject. According to what I have been informed by the Standing Committee, SYRIZA votes "NEI" for the contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Carras, do you want the floor for the contract?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u37	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u38	Here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u39	I'm going to need less time, Mr. President. Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister two questions. The first question concerns whether we have a picture of the size of Azerbaijan's shipping. The second point is that we understand that this is a formal contract and we have no objection. But what I would like to ask is this: I see that the agreement has been signed in 2011. You are telling us that it has already been ratified since 2011 by the Azerbaijani Parliament. Is the delay - and if you'd like to answer that - connected to the question of the demilitarisation of the IPCC, or is it something special? I would also like to make a point from now on: it is well known that the Greek shipping is currently falling apart. There are daily reports that offices and companies are transported outside Piraeus. It is well known, as Mr Papachristopoulos said, that the shipyards do not actually work. I have the example of Syros’ youth who had no activity for seven months and still has no. On the occasion of the Convention, and even if I deviate a little from the debate, I would like us to hear the Minister - not to open up a debate, but to respond only to us - about whether he intends to bring some issues that will help shipping. Shipping is not just equipment, but it is also the seafarers to whom there is a great deal of unemployment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u40	Minister, if you want to answer, I'll give you the floor for two minutes. However, on this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that these issues are raised and discussed in the Standing Committee rather than in the House. For the last time I see that my kindness is a cause for abuse. We shall therefore remain faithful to Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, and I shall not open a debate. In any case, after the questions have been raised, Mr Minister, you have the floor for two, three minutes. But please do not derogate and raise other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u41	No, Mr President, I will be as brief as possible. You are right about the fact that most of these issues have also been raised in committee. So I come to Azerbaijan's shipping. Azerbaijan is not a maritime country, but a country producing hydrocarbons. It is therefore interested in ensuring the best conditions for their transport. They have that interest. The Greek ships, Greek owners etc. They are also available. The Greek state, like the Greek society, can benefit from the reciprocity of this relationship on terms and conditions, which I think this convention ensures. As far as your question concerning the delay is concerned, it has also been put to the Commission. There's no feasibility. It's a common problem. Since the previous period, we have put it in place. Initiatives have been taken at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to speed up ratification procedures. There have been improvements, but we have not reached the desired point. However, there was no feasibility here. As far as the unemployment of seafarers is concerned, Mr President, you are quite right and I endorse what you are saying. The Ministry's initiatives from the very beginning are the encouragement in a systematic and pressing way of signing a new collective agreement between the Association of Greek Shipowners and the Hellenic Shipowners, which will not only provide for the well-known issues of labour relations, remuneration and all of this, but will include, for at least three years, an obligation to increase drastically the hiring of Greek workers, especially the following crews on ships with Greek flags, but also on Greek owners. He hasn't matured yet, there's evidence that he's growing. And the second level is what Mrs Manolakou set out, the improvement of the operation of the Maritime Labour Office. On these two fronts we move. Finally, the shipyards are a great debate. As you know, the Greek shipyards are in private hands, they collapsed - for many reasons and various reasons - and the effort to rebuild the shipbuilding industry is the subject of continuous government initiatives. I hope that in the next period we will also have a comprehensive plan. However, others are the problems of Scaramaga, but of Elefsina, others of Syros. All this, however, is consistent with the great crisis of the shipbuilding industry, as is the repair area of Perama. However, and I shall end with this if we do not solve the problem of Scaramaga, which is the flagship of the shipbuilding industry and which also has the largest tank in the Mediterranean, we cannot solve the problem of the shipbuilding industry as a whole. However, Mr President, Article 108, which refers to 112, cannot be an opportunity for the intervention of Mr Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u42	Article 112, referred to in Article 108.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u43	Yeah, I'm sorry. SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman will answer from what I have seen. I do not need to make any comment on this more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u44	I wish, however, Minister, that the irregularity within this Parliament is that I left Mr Loverdos to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u45	No, but everything that has its balance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u46	No, not to talk, you have your opinion that everyone will speak. Okay, I get it. I won't deny the word to anyone. The Centro Association, however, Mr Carras, votes 'NAH'?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u47	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u48	Therefore, the debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy is concluded: ‘Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Maritime Transport’. Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u49	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u50	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy: ‘Application of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Maritime Transport’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle, articles and the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u52	The House has given the mandate requested. So before we go to the second convention, will the SYRIZA rapporteur or the parliamentary representative talk about the issue that Mr Lovers raised? Who wants to talk from both of them? Because it's an incident, there's no paper from your Party, so I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u53	Can we share the time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u54	He can't share. Let me tell you now from experience, Mr Symmoleni, that it is customary for the parliamentary representatives to take the floor on such matters. But from there on, I can't interfere, I'm telling you what's customary. So Mrs. Vaki has the same time as Mr. Loverdo, that is, three minutes. Here, Mrs. Vakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, such expressions as 'fascist Stalinists', which go back to the place where we are - we are at the temple of the Republic - are coming to Parliament and parliamentary morals, please, to be removed from the Minutes or to be revoked by my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u56	Oh, no! No way!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u57	Now, I don't understand where he found it. As far as the media are concerned, Mr Colleagues, do not remember the role played by the systemic media with your help, do not remember that you do not even want, and now block the recommendation of the PSE, so that the law does not apply, that is to say, to enter a class in twenty-five years of arbitrariness, immunity and interlocutory, with this atrocity that is made with the authorizations of the channels. Don't go back a little bit more into falsified evidence and journalists who don't deserve their name, when known channel, one day before the referendum, on Saturday, they illegally litigated political shows, when they terrorized the world with false elements and structured images and created a virtual reality, with your own synergy and association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, Mr Loverdos' speech enables us today and not Friday to raise something, which has been unprecedented, I must say. We are enough of us either politically active or active citizens and have been watching things for too many years in the country. I have never seen any party manifestation, any perceptions and under the regime of any acidity, a fact like what was observed in the festive - here I am opening a parable, to ask a question: Why a celebrity? What exactly are we celebrating? But, in any case, I close the parentheses - a SYRIZA event last Sunday. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] You celebrate and not Greek society, and that's the problem. You're celebrating off-site and off-site. You celebrate at a time of absolute crisis and celebrate in ignorance of where the social feeling lies. You are celebrating by perhaps trying to strengthen any effort to reach agreement, in the face of a major crisis in which you have also done your utmost. In any case, you must respect freelance. You must respect the rules of democracy. We will see you on Friday if you will think about bringing an amendment to the contents. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have to come up with something, which is very important and after we have come up with this, we all have to respect it. The country has not come out of the crisis. The country is still in a deep crisis. SYRIZA's attempt to show that it is a "FORT CHEYENNE" of political life in which the good "cowboys" are found and from the outside are the bad Indians who besieged it, assembling everyone indiscriminately and ultimately turning against freedom of speech, freedom of speech, freedom of journalists to express their views freely, is something that does not help the country, does not help society and does not help solve the problems. I have always thought that this country is at such a difficult point that only or at least sincere understanding and low tones can help. So this is what I ask of SYRIZA colleagues: To keep these low tones and not to enter the trap of artificial acidification, which they have been trying to cultivate lately.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Kouzeli, would you like me to give you the floor for this matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u61	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u62	Later, perhaps on your other location. Thank you. [[Applause]] Mrs Manolakou, would you like the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u63	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u64	From the river, Mr. Grace Theochari, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u65	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u66	From the Independent Greeks, Mr. Papachristopoulos, would you like the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u67	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u68	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u69	Thank you. I want to calmly remind you that right now that we're talking about media numbers and names owe 808 million euros. The legal and the obvious. They owed EUR 808 million, which is most likely to be loan and anguish. I still want to remind you, and I won't eat your time, that a certain media owner had put a bet on putting a million and dropping the government. He threw it down. I would also like to remind you that Andreas Papandreou had gone to the court house when the interests of five publishers were at stake. I want to remind you that almost all the Prime Ministers of the country, within closed doors, from three canalarchs, five bankers and some families took the august and gave a ring to the next. I would like to remind you that the lists of large regions were decided before the elections were held. This regime of incredible authoritarianism and immunity would expect - in view of the fact that today's President-in-Office of the Republic has broken his face to a fair, very fair, effort for the main shareholder - more modesty and less selective sensitivity. I have nothing more to say, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u70	The last person to speak is the Parliamentary Representative of the Centro Association. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, I am not going to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u72	Mr. President, may I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u73	Just a minute, Minister. However, Mr Papachristopoulos, because my colleague from New Democracy cannot speak, I am making an irregularity. I've never made it a year I'm Vice President. Because I lived through the changes of all the leaderships in the party I belong to, it never became behind closed doors and we never gave a ring. It has always been in accordance with the procedures laid down in our party's statute. In fact, it has also been evidence lately.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u74	Your opinion, Mr President, is respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u75	Minister, the conversation is closing here. I won't give the floor. Or rather when you take the floor for the other penalty, you can also make a placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u76	Very little, on behalf of the government, I want to make a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u77	Yeah, I'll give you the reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u78	I'm not responsible for the other sanction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u79	Oh, it's not you. Here, you have the floor for two minutes and it closes the subject here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u80	Much less, and on behalf of the Government, I would like to make a comment, in addition to what the majority representative has tabled. In fact, yesterday's event was a celebrity character, a formal public account of a year of battle. In the context of this battle and before the Secretary of the Party and the Prime Minister of Greece, President of the SYRIZA, spoke, there were moments that were raised in the giants, of the year that we passed through social movement, from the most important events, from the behaviour of political people and from the behaviour of the press. What's exactly annoying? This attitude is recorded in this one year by the systemic media and certain journalists who have operated in a certain way, like the misleading poll industry, who have been completely devalued. In this context, therefore, the most important events of the past year have been reported in the reports and the context of the report. Who, then, is this disturbing and why is this a fascist practice and why all this strange? They are simply despised practices, which must historically be condemned and not repeated. There's no way for journalism to be directed. It can't be done! And this was recorded in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u81	All right, it is true that we do not all emit the frequency itself, as the well-known song says. Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the promotion and mutual protection of investments'. The draft law was passed by a majority vote in the Standing Committee and is brought to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object only to the ratification of this agreement. As far as I have been informed in the Commission's minutes, the Golden Dawn kept reservation and the Communist Party voted against it. So I'm starting with Mr. Kouzilo. You have the floor for five minutes. I'm sure you won't exhaust them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u82	We are voting against this agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u83	You're voting against.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u84	We are voting against the Minutes. In their aggressive investment policy, which the United Arab Emirates will rather exercise in the next few days, we must not forget that many Turkish offshore are behind them. We must also not forget that the United Arab Emirates, according to reports and various revelations that exist, fuel the Islamic Caliphate, those who fight Christianity, those who are currently fighting and slaughtering in the Middle East. For all these reasons, we are voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Kouzeli. For this convention by the Communist Party of Greece, it is for Mr Vardalis to speak. Come on, Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me to comment, not on the Bureau, but on the debate that has evolved on the previous topic of the debate. Many people in this Chamber are being cut off for the democratic information of our people. But they forget something and perhaps the most important thing. That in this country, in the media, he did and does the big capital, the big business groups and whatever measures and rules you put in, that's not going to change. Koumado again will continue to do business groups in this sector too. And that has nothing to do with the democratic information of our people and the solution to the problems. I now come to ratification of this agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, the bilateral agreement which we are debating, negotiated by the previous government and which brings about ratification, is within the framework and rules of the European Union. Such bilateral agreements are included in the list of issues falling within the common commercial policy of the European Union under Regulation 1219/2012. So the European Union has exclusive competence in this area too. This defines the rules and the movement of capital, including investment capital movements. Our country, like other European Union countries, should comply with these rules. The European Union may assess them, intervene, discontinue the application of the provisions or amend them if it considers it appropriate. Even if a country is to enter into negotiations on an agreement, it will have to inform the committee and take the power to initiate them. And it will be authorised under the specific regulation that I mentioned, when they do not conflict with the more comprehensive legislation of the European Union, when they do not consider it unnecessary, if it is incompatible with the principles and objectives of the European Union in the field of external action, or if it does not constitute a serious obstacle to the negotiation or conclusion of bilateral investment agreements with third countries themselves. What the principles and objectives of the European Union and hence this bilateral agreement are, is clearly seen in the rapporteur's report. The whole text goes through anguish about how to protect investment and investors. What you are seeking in conditions of intense competition is, in particular, to ensure competitiveness, to shield the profitability of large capital by overcoming any obstacles to the free movement of capital, such as protection against expropriations and nationalisations, the free export of capital and profits, and a detailed procedure for resolving any differences. The conclusion of such bilateral agreements is not dismantled by the Government's efforts, through the promotion of privatisation, to attract foreign capital and, in particular, Arabic funds, to try to "take" the relaunch of the economy, the economy designed in such a way that it serves the profits of business groups. You call on the United Arab Emirates to invest, in fact, in the interest of companies. We also heard from the Minister's lips that investments are the ones that create wealth. I see it has not taken too much time on this point too, and I see it as it is, to invoke the same arguments as the previous ones. There is nothing to gain from these investments by the workers and the populace. Attracting investment, restarting the economy, this capitalist economy, are the objectives of our country's urban order, goals that serve its profitability. This growth will step on the ruined rights of workers, so that it can secure a higher percentage of profits for the capital to be invested. Capitalist development and workers' rights cannot coexist. The bourgeoisie of our country needs to upgrade its interests in the wider area. It is necessary to open new profitability fields and at the same time to protect its investments. To "evaluate" the opportunities that domestic monopolies see for a profitable way out into their capitals. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Such opportunities for them see behind our country's deepest involvement in the dangerous imperialist planning in the region. Unfortunately, these plans serve in the best way, as did previous governments. The Communist Party of Greece is not opposed to bilateral agreements, but to agreements that will help satisfy modern popular needs and not to satisfy profits. For all these reasons, we are voting against this draft law that ratifys this agreement with the United Arab Emirates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, too. Mr Marda, before I give you the floor, I will say that Mr Alexiadis was forced to go upstairs, but he is the only Minister who is present today and will answer two topical questions. In order to ensure that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy does not stop - because that is where the Minister goes - I will be interrupting for five minutes when we are done with ratification. Please go upstairs so that the Commission does not stop, so that Mr Alexiadis will come down and come back. That's how we sorted it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u88	Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u89	What do you want, Mrs. Zaroulia?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u90	I'd like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u91	I asked, though, before. Mr. Kouzilos spoke. One speaks from each party. Do you want to talk about the contract?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u92	On the subject Mr. Loverdos raised...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u93	Look, this issue is over, it's over and we're not coming back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u94	Because something happened to our parliamentary representative and had to leave, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u95	I understand you've been absent, but you will allow me not to reopen the matter. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a debate in the relevant committee. The issues raised here have been answered. Here we have a convention which seeks to facilitate investment from a particular country to Greece. It merely introduces a regime, the most-favoured-nation status, where problems are encountered. A arbitration procedure is provided for. It is predicted exactly what will happen in the event of expropriation and in the event of war. In general, it does not propose anything special, which causes any questions. We believe that it is one of the conventions signed by all the world, by all the countries, in the context of normalisation, linked to the movement of capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the promotion and mutual protection of investments'. Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u98	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u99	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u100	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Application of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the promotion and mutual protection of investments’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u101	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau to ratify the minutes of this sitting in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u102	The requested authorisation was granted. In order to prevent Alexiadis from coming out of the Senate Hall, the two questioners are asked not to leave. We'll be interrupting for five minutes and we'll start again with the two topical questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Unfortunately, I have to write off before I arrive at the fourth time question that is from Mr Theocharis. For reasons of morality and parliamentary order - although the debate took place in the Conference of Presidents - I must say that Mr Alexiades, at least when I presiding, is rare when he has a duty of parliamentary scrutiny. I regret that I cannot say that for the rest of the ministers. I do not think the justification for 'workload' should be sufficient to prevent them from coming to the House. That's what I see twice and three times. The first under number 423/19-1-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the change of the existing legislative framework as regards the timing of judgement of Greek Police officials, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The second question under number 392-12-1-2016 of the First Cycle of the Parliamentary Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Kefalidou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the high charges for banks in all transactions using debits - credit cards, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The third, with number 427/19-1-2016, is the first question of the Greek Communist Party MP, Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the resumption of this year's additional Teaching Support and Strengthening Teaching in the schools of Greece, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The fourth question, with number 407/18-1-2016, will be discussed in the first cycle of the Athens MP, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, to the Minister of Finance, on the problems of the application of excise duty on wines. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. As much as I may be interested in deletion - in this case where my question is to be debated first - I too cannot support the fact that the ministers do not respect Parliament. It is a sign of the problems of our parliamentary system. The executive acts in legislative terms with a working logic. She remembers it, that is, whenever she needs it, to pass some bills. I'll get to the point. Mr Minister, despite the reactions of almost all Parliament, the government decided and imposed last November on Mr von Wogau. 4346/2015 excise duty on wine. It is a decision against all logic rather worse than this brewery tax, which we have achieved and abstained as it affects a very promising and dynamic sector of Greek agriculture and the economy, that of winemaking. You have proceeded, directly, on 16 December 2015 in the adoption of a decision of your own, setting out the procedure for collecting the tax and the actions of the competent authorities, in view of the new tax as from 1 January. That Ministerial Decision created a number of important problems, such as the irrational requirement of the day-to-day payment of excise duty. It is myth that the company, which had to go thirty kilometers to pay 0.30 cents of the euro because it sold two bottles. So his collection for the exported products. After the reactions, it is true that many of them were treated in part with the circular of 7 January. However, the race for enterprises in the industry continues. In order to respect legality, they must make a great effort to ensure the issue of a tax warehouse licence by 30 April and to maintain the necessary liquidity you steal from them in order to advance the excise duty on exports. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. At the same time, small winemakers - although they can choose to operate outside the warehouse - will be fatal - because of the strict framework and conditions - either choose the tax warehouse at extremely high economic and management costs or apply for a white request to save what they can do by 30 April, as there is a transitional favourable regime if they make such a request. For these reasons, you are asking whether you intend to assist directly small wine producers in the country, who were suddenly found with problems threatening the viability of their enterprises by allowing the progressive partial payment of excise duty on sales until 31/12-2015, which will be declared until 31-1-2016. Will you immediately modify the obligation to pay excise duty in the event of intra-Community movement of the products concerned and their provision of reimbursement to wine producers who are to be subject to tax warehouses as well as to additional liquidity issues in the sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u105	Before I give the floor to Mr Alexiadis to say for reasons of objectivity - I have missed him - that Mr Toskas, who had been appointed to answer Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides's question, is abroad. So he's perfectly justified. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President, and I apologise for the delay, but there is an obligation on the Committee on Economic Affairs, which is why this procedure has been followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u107	It was no different.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u108	With your question, Mr Theocharis, you are analyzing an issue which really employs a portion of Greek wine producers and creates problems in the whole process. Over the past period - and on Friday and today - we have had contacts with the wine producers, those affected by this measure, to find a solution. Indeed, in this direction, the Treasury will operate. So it is very clear that the Ministry of Finance does not want to cause problems, wants to solve problems, and we are looking to find the best solutions, as we did in time with the decision of December, as we do with the January decision, with the clarification decisions. But I do not agree with you that the decision of the Ministry of Finance created the problem. The problem creates the kind of tax. When a product is subject to excise duty, a number of provisions are immediately activated, a number of European directives (which is not a decision of the government or a decision of our own). In other words, since we imposed a excise duty, there is a need to have these effects. However, I should like to make it clear once again that this special tax does not apply to everything. Simple wines produced by private individuals, which are consumed by the producer itself, by the members of his family or by his guests, are exempt, provided that they are not sold. Let us make this clear, because there is a lot to be said in the disinformation facility these days, and we need to give people an accurate picture. As to what the government plans to do now. We are, in fact, planning to deal with these problems. I cannot tell you at this time that the first, second or third metre will be taken in this month. We are in cooperation with the new Secretary-General of Public Revenue and with the officials, within the framework of and within the scope of the directives, because that is where we need to move, we need to find the best solutions. But I also assure the Members and the wine growers that these solutions will be found and that their problems will be addressed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to accept, in any case, as a statement of intent, which the Minister said to us. And we saw the wine growers and they're rebels. They think this is a tombstone in the Greek wine industry. The Government has chosen to place a excise duty on wine on a partial compensation for the increase in VAT on education and expects about 60-70 million. But I am not optimistic that you have calculated the administrative costs at customs for all this tax, I am not sure that you have calculated the administrative costs in the Greek economy and if, in fact, overall, this tax will benefit or would have a cost. Let me remind you of the corresponding issue of the two-day producers, which we have not solved, and which we have problems with the European Commission. There we have led to a regime leading to the sale of 'black' and 'black', except for tax procedures. So these are the problems we have to solve. We should help small producers to standardise and sell standardised products and, rather, also with this excise duty on wine, you will lead small producers to go to 'black' sales to avoid all this suffering. It cannot continue to force the state to force the citizen, to force the producer to choose between legality and the possibility of advanceing and doing his job. These two cannot be divorced and cannot combine both the pretext and the success and legality and be able to comply with the rules that you have put in place. Look at it again. The "will" is not enough, Mr Alexiadis. You need to fix the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u111	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u112	First of all, I should like to make it clear that a detailed answer was given on 18 January to the House in a question that Mr Kegeroglu has asked for, as far as I remember. Also, I will provide you with all relevant service documents, which provide detailed information and detailed information, to have a full picture of exactly what is happening. I do not, however, accept, Mr Theocharis, the reproach you give the government about the kind of tax. We have made that very clear many times, we will say this once again, so that it can be understood and not to hear the same argument again. We are not happy, nor are we defending too many of the tax provisions we currently have in our tax system and we have said that they will change, either slowly or at a faster rate, where we can change it. In order to change VAT in education, however, we had to find some equivalent. It may, of course, be that some of Parliament's wings - I have not understood exactly your position - should think that VAT should remain in education. But we have been struggling from the very beginning to find their equivalent. And that's why we found some equivalents. Maybe it wasn't the perfect one. But politics only makes no sense to testify to your criticism. You have to submit your proposal, too. We therefore expect it to be tabled, with what the tax on wine should be replaced. We found an equivalent to technical problems due to excise duty. Solve it and move on. So, as far as this issue is concerned, we are doing everything we can to protect Greek wine and Greek products. We are also studying and working with producers on these issues. We don't close our eyes. And I did not expect you to report on 'I will'. It may have been in a note from your previous months. But at the Ministry of Finance we now closed in 2015, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u113	Three 'will'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u114	And because you have experience with the Ministry of Finance, the tax revenue balance at the Ministry of Finance for 2015 was positive, compared with 2014 it was negative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u115	We're done and we're on our way. The fifth under number 410/18-1-2016, a top-level question by the Member of Parliament for the Flashing of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kosilis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the reduction of the prices of compensation for PV parks, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The first under number 424/19-1-2016 topical question by MP Corinth of New Democracy Mr Christou Dimas to the Minister of Health about the problems of the General Hospital of Corinth is not being discussed due to a workload - obstruction of the Minister. The second question by number 401/18-1-2016 of the second question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR V.K. Kegeroglou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the high fuel prices in our country, while the price of oil internationally is not discussed due to the Minister's impediment. And we arrive, in order to free the Minister to go to the Senate Hall, to the third with number 428/19-1-2016, a topical question for the second cycle of MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Athanasios Vardalis, on the maintenance of the coastal occult on the estuary of the Austerity and French rivers in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Treasury Alexiadis. Mr. Vardalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in recent years, reality has reminded us tragically - I would say - of the lack of armoring of the country against flood protection. Here, now, we are not talking about a project in general or about planning to deal with this problem or its solution, but about dealing with problems, which have been identified for years and are urgent and therefore also needs immediate treatment. I am referring to one of the things that is the coastal emblem in the estuary of the Axis and French rivers. This damsel has been eroded dangerously and any delay in its restoration will result, first of all, in the destruction of a large part of it, the inclination of land areas, the destruction of crops and livestock plants, possibly - and also the loss of human life and animals. That is not what we, the Communist Party of Greece, are talking about. I have here the report - and it is well known - from the Technical Service of the Region of Central Macedonia. Secondly, you may know that the project has been built for fifty-four years, since 1962, and has not been maintained. Some stones are thrown from time to time when holes open. The question is specific. Will you give permission - because this is invoked by the Region of Central Macedonia, that you are not authorizing - to proceed immediately to the maintenance of this impurity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u117	Me too, Mr. Vardalis. The Minister has the floor. As far as I can see, you're an expert on impurities. Here, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u118	You are starting with a good point, Mr President. I am not an expert on impurities or social or natural. In relation to this question, however, I am involved in public property matters. And here I would like to make it clear to the honourable Member, who is asking a very correct question about something, which creates problems and risks at any time, in a very important area in the country, in a region where, if the dams break and the sea enters (in that area) within, we will have disasters that will last for many years because of the problems they will cause in those territories. However, I will tell you what the bureaucratic problem is and what my responsibility is, because, in the end, you are wrong to ask me the question. There are the services of the Ministry of Finance, which are responsible for giving permission to do work in the cavalry. And there is rightly this responsibility, because, if there were no (this responsibility), imagine that everyone could go to the cavalry and either on the pretext that he is going to make some works or with anything else, to create problems, trespasses and a number of other problems we have seen from time to time. They do not refuse the Ministry of Finance to grant permission. I'll submit all the relevant correspondence to the minutes, so you can be informed. There is also a document of the Regional Public Property Department of Macedonia - Thrace from 11 September 2015 to the region, which clearly explains that, in order to do this, the procedures leading to a decision of the Minister of Finance should be applied and followed in accordance with the procedure laid down in the paragraph of the relevant article. Regulation (EC) No 2971/2001. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Trif Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Land Administration cannot authorize under the existing laws if this procedure is not followed. So the Ministry of Finance has two ways: Or bring in a provision and change the law, which will be too long or too long to comply with the law. By complying with the law, we cannot authorize such work unless a procedure is followed. Unfortunately, the competent authorities have not submitted the request and the file in question in order to follow the procedure and allow it. If the request had been made since September - I have been telling you since September, since they got the answer - it would have already been allowed and the projects would have begun. So we as a Treasury can do nothing else while that law exists. It must either change the law or the law must be observed. In order for the works to be carried out directly, the legal procedure must be followed and the cavalry authorised.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u120	Minister, as far as I understand it, we can finally stand where we are and where we are found to denounce bureaucracy, but here people are going to drown, waste will be destroyed, because we cannot deal with a simple matter and we are invoking the law. But is that possible? If this process is followed and within the conditions, in order to do a project, namely to maintain the blockage, it is to study it, test it, make the decision by the Minister - because there is no one else to make such a decision - and turn back, turn into a competition, get the contractor and see when it is going to happen, eventually fatal and we will say that it is the extreme weather. We think that a matter could be solved differently, which is urgent and urgently needed to deal with it. For example, for such projects, the region will generally be authorized - in this particular case, in the Region of Central Macedonia - and of course the relevant resources, in order to intervene on the spot, the one with responsibility and responsibility. It can't be the Minister's case, and if this law needs to be changed, it can change the law. And, I repeat, not only the competence but also the resources. Of course, the problem of anti-military immunity is not solved with such patches. In our opinion, a central body that is responsible for both study and monitoring and for solving such problems is needed. Only with such a state institution can we deal with such problems as a whole, and more general planning and planning of projects necessary for the flood protection of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u122	I would like to clarify, Mr President, in order not to misunderstand anyone who hears us, that what you are asking is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance shall not grant authorisation unless a particular procedure is not followed. Anyone who wants to do works in the cavalry, without permission, takes responsibility. But we cannot allow ourselves without the legal procedure being observed. So the question you ask us, you must put it to other ministries and of course we must change the legislation. The Minister of Finance cannot deal with such an extraordinary task, it must be the responsibility of other bodies. However, we should change the legislation in this area and we will change on many issues the legislation on the altar and the protection of the beach. Because we're not talking about protection. We are talking here about supposed protection not protecting the cavalry. But at the moment, why should the question be as to what the Treasury is doing and not be the question of why so many months does the periphery not follow the procedure, which should have been followed and been informed of it since September? So we'll all make an effort. I shall try, tomorrow, to contact both the region and the other services, to give this authorization immediately and to address the problem of citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u123	Minister, we disembowel you, go up to the Senate Hall. The fourth under number 378/12-1-2016 topical question by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Health, on the operation of the Computer Tomograph (PET - CT) at the University General Hospital of Ioannina, will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Minister. The fifth question under No. 402/18-1-2016 is a topical question of the second Athens Parliamentary, New Democracy, Anna Karamanlis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the investigation of the causes of death of four-year-olds in a hospital in Heraklion, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. The sixth under No. 403/18-1-2016 topical question by MP Evros of New Democracy Mr. Anastasios Grassaki to the Minister of Health, on the question of dealing with the operating problems of the Dumos Hospital, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The seventh question (No 386/12-1-2016) of the Second Minister of the Republic of Athens, Mr Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiades, to the Minister of Health, concerning the implementation of the 'auto-return' measures and'rebate' measures to the private service providers of the EEA for the year 2014 will not be discussed as a result of the Minister's impediment. The ninth under number 404/18-1-2016, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the operation of the hospitals of Agrinio and Messology, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The tenth under number 412/18-1-2016 timely question from the Second Cycle of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the coverage of the blank beds in the intensive care units of the HSH, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The twelfth, under number 394/13-1-2016, is a topical question for the second parliamentary court of Piraeus, Mr. Theodoras Megalo-Economist, with regard to the living conditions of the abandoned newborns in the wing of the "Alexandra" Hospital, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. All these are topical questions to the Minister of Health, which are postponed due to the Minister's impediment, due to a workload. On the contrary, the eighth Question No 399/15-1-2016 by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the "purpose of Greek property in Himara and in Saints Saranta", is postponed due to the impediment of the Minister but Mr. Kotzias is indeed abroad. Also, the eleventh question under number 385/12-1-2016 of a topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Athanasios Vardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the problems of workers in the Euromedica Group is not discussed due to the Minister's impediment and postponement. The first question under number 818/3-11-2015 question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the abolition of Article 11 of the draft law on "Tourist ships and other provisions", is not discussed after consultation of the honourable Member and the relevant Minister. Finally, the second question by no. 1868/11-12-2015 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance on the liquidation of the "SPA PROMOTION", is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Imagine how many times she's been filed! The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-25-S1-commons.u124	With the consent of the House at 18.56 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, January 26, 2016 at 18.30', on the subject of Parliament's work: a pre-dated debate, in accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, at the initiative of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, at the level of party leaders, on the reform of the country's insurance system, in accordance with the special agenda.
