ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-03-S1-commons.u1	Madam and Mr Colleague, Minister, Mr Alexiadis, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 2-6-2016, the PLZ minutes of its sessions, Thursday 2 June 2016, with regard to the vote on all the bills:]] A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Israel on the Status of their Powers’. B. Other: ‘Preparation of the Memorandum of Understanding on Military Cooperation between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Arab Republic of Egypt’. C. Other: ex II. 'Programme Arrangement' No. A -2124 [MIOS] between the Federal Ministry of Defence and Sport of the Republic of Austria and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Defence of Estonia and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland and the Ministry of Defence of the French Republic and the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Ministry of Defence of the Netherlands and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Ireland and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Netherlands For reasons of moral order, I must say that, at least as many times as I and Mr Alexiades have questions, they are always present.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-03-S1-commons.u2	The only one!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-03-S1-commons.u3	It is always present, contrary to your colleagues, who seem to have been caught on the days of parliamentary scrutiny by the Zhika virus and something is happening! It's a disgrace! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, seventeen students and students and four educational attendants from the Municipal School of Arion Rethymno. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would also like to announce to the House that Ministers of Economy, Development and Tourism, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Work, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Culture and Sport, Economic and Energy, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Maritime and Island Policy and Rural Development, and Deputy Ministers of Economy, Development and Tourism, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Energy, and the Deputy Ministers of Economy, Development and Tourism and Reconstruction, have tabled a draft law on 2-6-2016: ‘Institutional framework for the establishment of the Private Investment Aid Schemes for the Regional and Development of the country’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-03-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Monday 6 June 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 933/31-5-2016 by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Harulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the protection of the geotopes. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The current question by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning the deterioration of the manufacturing sector in our country. 3. The question asked by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn by Elias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction about the "stability of Greek citizens from a well-known para-state anti-semitism website". 4. The 906/24-5-2016 topical question by MP Attica of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of National Defence, on the creation of a hot spot in the Neo-Point Refugee Mode district, Gorctsa Aspropriator. 5. The question by No 937/31-5-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Sakis Vardalis, on the Greek Vehicle Industry (‘ELVO S.A.’). 6. Under number 935/31-5-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Health about the shortcomings and problems of the fleet of the EKAB. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 926/30-5-2016 by Congressman Arta of the New Republic, George Style, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the payment of the minimum possible coupled aid to the citrus producers. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance about the progress of the projects for the development of the former airport of Greece. 3. The Question No 938/31-5-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the situation in the Second Chance Schools. 4. The Question No 846/9-5-2016 by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister of Health, concerning the immediate treatment of the issue of the on-site child in Argolida. 5. Under number 825/254-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Association of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economics to the Minister of Health regarding the residual functioning of the Anticancer Hospital of Metataxas. 6. The question by number 929/30-5-2016 of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, concerning the country's bankruptcy and the fiscal diversion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-03-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before I begin the debate on the one and only one of the topical questions, before I read them, on the Minutes, I would like to say that all the topical questions, other than three, were two of which were to be answered by Mr Katrugalos and by Mrs Kounturas, who are objectively and rightly not, because both of them are abroad, are postponed because of an impediment to the relevant ministers, including the one who is present today, joining us, Mr Stathis Panagoulis to the Minister of State. In particular: The second under number 923/30-5-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary 2nd Athens, New Democracy, Catherine Papakostas - Ironropoulou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the harmonisation of the procedures for the repayment of third-party loans to private-sector families with the third families of the public sector, is not discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible abroad. The third, with number 929/30-5-2016, timely question for the first cycle of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, concerning the country's bankruptcy and the budget diversion, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The fourth under number 931/30-5-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the maintenance of jobs with all the rights of workers in poultry facilities by the new employer "NITSIAKO" is not discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister abroad. The fifth under number 927/30-5-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, regarding bureaucracy in the premises of the Marina, is not discussed due to the absence of the relevant Deputy Minister abroad. Also, the first under No 924/30-5-2016 topical question of the Second Cycle of the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy, Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis, to the Minister of Health, on the need to staff the Artificial Leaf Unit of the General Hospital of Serres, is not being discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The second, with number 936/31-5-2016, topical question by Z' Vice President of Parliament and MP Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and National Defence, on the unacceptable and dangerous conditions of "friendly" refugee in Koutsochochero Larissa, is not being discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The third under No 928/30-5-2016 topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the strengthening of the mission and the economic position of the resin growers for the benefit of the forest and the national economy, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The fourth under number 934/31-5-2016 topical question by Independent MEP II, Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the suspension of the extended hours of Customs V and F Piraeus, is not being discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance. The fifth question under number 896/23-5-2016 is a topical question by MP I Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the state of control of the supporting documents of participants in the tender for the recruitment of firefighters for a five-year term of office. The sixth question, under number 897/23-5-2016, of the Second Cycle of the New Democracy MP, Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the Ministry's intentions to restore the Patras Scientific Park under the supervision of the Institute of Technology and Research, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The seventh question under number 891/23-5-2016 of the Second Chamber of Independent Members of the Athens Parliament Mr. Efstathiou (Stathia) Panagoulis to the Minister of State, concerning the "private promotion of specific MPs and journalists from private and state channels", is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Also, the first 3062/10/10/2016 question of the petitions by the Independent Member of the Laconia Parliament, Leonida Gregorakos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the compensation of the share of cooperative banks, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The second question with number 3970/15-3-2016 question of the questions raised by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health, concerning the problems in the operation of the surgical rooms of the General Hospital of Elefsina "Thrias" is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. We enter the debate of the first under number 932/31-5-2016 on the establishment of a First Cycle of the Halkidiki Parliamentary Coalition Mr.Akaterini Iglezis to the Minister of Finance, on the establishment of the Tax Service Office (GFO) in the capital of the Municipality of Aristotle Halkidiki. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Alexiadis. Mrs. Igleze, you have the floor. There'll be comfort in time. That's the good thing, when only one question is asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-03-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President, for the comfort of time. Minister, in the context of the reorganisation of the tax and tax system, taxpayers' offices are established, which are coming to fill any gap created by the merger of public financial services, which has started and continues throughout the country. The services of taxpayers shall operate solely for the purpose of handling civil affairs and in line with the civil service centres, they shall be housed in OTA premises. So, on the basis of this reorganisation framework, I would like to stress the need for the creation - and I stress this - of a second tax office in the Municipality of Ierissos and in the Municipality of Aristotle, in particular in its capital, in its seat, Ierissos, taking into account the numerous demands of the citizens. This request underlines and makes it necessary: The first is that the existing GEO in Arnaia Halkidikis is subordinated and unable to serve all the citizens of the Municipality of Aristotle. Also, access to the region of Arnaia is made through a mountainous network, which especially in the winter months because of ice cream has an increased degree of risk. Another factor to be mentioned is that the transition of the municipalities from the coastal areas of the Municipality of Aristotle to Polygiro, the capital of the prefecture, where the competent DU is located, is terribly difficult as the existing transport network does not serve the direct transport of citizens by public transport. There is no CBEL, that is, between the area of Ierissos and Polygyros. Finally, I would stress that the bulk of business activities, shops, tourist businesses, etc. the Municipality of Aristotle is located in the coastal area near Ierissos. Is the Minister then asking whether he intends to proceed with the necessary steps to create a second GFCF in the Municipality of Aristotle, based in Ierissos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-03-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-03-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, with your question, there is a problem with regard to citizens' suffering to fulfil their basic tax obligations, because instead of the state serving them, it forces them to move very long distances. There has been an attempt to reorganise the tax services in recent years, because we have had a strange situation. There were other counties, to which they were able to be, and up to eight, the taxes, there were other counties that had one or two taxes. If we look for the cause, because some counties had seven - eight taxes and others had one - two, we will see that from those prefectures they had been past Ministers of Finance or other political persons who wanted to leave their place one tax. This thing has been tried as a Ministry of Finance to rationalise it and has to a large extent been limited, not in the most successful way, because a horizontal method has been followed in each county. It is another county that is small geographically and another county that is large, such as this county or has problems through the road, and there should be another design. There should also be another design, because instead of the GFCF being placed at the city's headquarters, such as Ierissos, it was placed in Arnaia. Of course, there should also be provision in the Armenian provision for GFCF to serve residents there, but provision should then also be made for GFCF in Ierissos, which has the greatest economic activity and which should be addressed geographically. The criterion at the time was that we were doing GMDs in whatever areas of DUs. Wrong criterion. But that was, unfortunately, the criterion that was followed. But the next time we have to deal with all this. We have to deal with such cases. It must leave an area with tourist and commercial traffic and go to a mountainous area, where there is a problem and, as you said, it cannot even go where the central DU is, to solve the problems, because in many cases the problems of taxpayers in GFCF cannot be solved. They have to go to the DU's headquarters to solve them. In two ways we intend to deal with this problem. I will also present to you the relevant document from the Directorate of the Agency, so that you can have a full picture. One way is to review both the issue of taxes and taxes and customs and all the services of the Ministry of Finance, which we will either have to move forward services or create new structures. Whether these structures will take the form of the SGM, the small or the large DU, is something that we will consider in the next few years. However, the great change that we have before us is a specific business plan, so that in a certain period of time, not after ten years, the citizen does not have to go to tax and can solve all his problems through telephone centres via the Internet or through the accountants, whose services we are using very much and I thank them once again and publicly, because we have transferred a large part of the tax services to the accounting offices. In conclusion, I say that either we are going to rethink and see how we can deal with such problems, including the problems of the Ierissos region, or we will have an operational plan, which will, in certain cases, abolish the citizen's obligation to go to tax, and the citizen will be served, as in the other countries of the European Union and the civilised world, in the modern ways used by these countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-03-S1-commons.u9	Mrs. Igleze, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-03-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Minister, for letting our request be accepted openly. Of course, I would like to stress that it is very important that the immediate creation of GFCF in Ierissos, the Municipality of Aristotle, should be created without, of course, abolishing the existing one, because the Municipality of Aristotle is a very popular tourist destination, which means that its population is tripled in the summer season. The existing SGM in Arnaia can only help because of the distant distance from the coastal areas, but also because a person employed there is not enough to meet the needs of the citizens and mountainous and coastal areas. I must also stress that this action does not create any additional costs to the State budget, as the Municipality of Aristotle already has a well-structured space with the necessary equipment. Finally, I believe that the creation of the Tax Service Office in the Capital of the Municipality of Aristotle can only positively affect the service of citizens, but also the decongestion of the management of the competent IOS without - and I stress this, because I understand how important these days are - no additional costs. Thank you very much, and I hope that the immediate and positive response and resolution of the matter will take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-03-S1-commons.u11	Minister, you have the floor. Of course, because I have listened to your ambitious plan for all transactions with taxi, you must bear in mind that our parents, for example, and tomorrow to do so, were unable to use it because they were not familiar with age and age. So I think you should see the request, not only the compared but also other similar ones regardless of it. It'll just be less than if you didn't at some point do the e-mail. Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-03-S1-commons.u12	You're right, Mr. President. I feel really bad when they call me and tell me that a citizen from Milos, for example, needs to come to a Piraeus tax office to testify or pick up his car plates. We have to get into a new logic, a new function. We can't trouble the citizen. We need to find a way to serve the citizen and in this direction we do everything possible to deal with these problems and we are organising there. Clearly I would like to say to you, Madam President, that we are considering creating infrastructure, as I have said, either in the form of taxes or in other form that will serve the citizens, because it is not possible, when citizens are suffering at a great tax burden, to have additional problems from where they are going to be troubled. As you have said quite rightly, it will not create additional public spending, because these areas are granted by the municipalities. So the government won't mind paying rent. We already have great sins to wash away in other places with huge rents we pay. And we are making efforts on this issue. I would like to say clearly that we are considering this specific request for this GDR. At the same time, we are running all the other operational projects to deal with this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-03-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too. Before I close the meeting, I will give Mr. Panagoulis the floor. Now I'll necessarily hear your complaints, but I can't help it. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-03-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, you have spoken the whole House with a word you said at the beginning of the sitting. We have fourteen topical questions and only one minister appeared here today. Indeed, the word disgraceful. However, I would like to say, Mr President, that this is the second time in a week when Mr Pappas, the Minister, has despaired the House and does not come to answer a timely question about public and private channels. Mr Pappas has changed, Mr President, to a 'State canal' and a 'gulater' for private channels.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-03-S1-commons.u15	However, do not develop the question, because it will come at some point and you will tell it before it, because I cannot answer it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-03-S1-commons.u16	He's not coming, Mr. President. Here in Athens is Mr. Pappas. There's no excuse for not coming in a week for the second time. He negotiates with his submissives the licenses and wants to become, except for the 'national canalarch', and the 'gulater' of state and private channels. If Mr. Pappas, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-03-S1-commons.u17	Don't go any further, because you're embarrassing me. It's not right, because the Minister isn't here. I can only assure you - not just you, for the more general phenomenon - that I will take it to the Conference of Presidents. But let's turn it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-03-S1-commons.u18	I shall end with one sentence, Mr President. If Mr. Pappas cannot carry out his duties, let him return to where he was before becoming Minister in Koumoundourou Square.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-03-S1-commons.u19	Okay, I think he's coming next week.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-03-S1-commons.u20	And it must not despise the Rules of Procedure, nor the Constitution. None of us, Mr President, has the right to despise the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-03-S1-commons.u21	In the latter I think we all agree, and our present colleagues. And that concerns all of us. For the rest, I can't give an answer. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-03-S1-commons.u22	With the consent of the House at 10.33 p.m. the sitting on Monday, June 6, 2016 at 18.00, on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
