ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 28.6.2016, the minutes of its meeting of Tuesday 28 June 2016 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the PNA Praesidium on Tuesday, 28 June 2016, with regard to the vote on the entire motion "To amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II (Government Gazette 51 A'/10.4.1997) and Part Parliamentary (Government Gazette 106 A'/24.6.1987), as applicable."]] Before entering the agenda, I would like to take note of the fact that the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee on the Claims on German debts set up pursuant to Rules 44 and 45 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, and for which the Parliamentary Assembly has set a deadline for submitting its report by 30 June 2016, calls for an extension of its operation until 1 August 2016. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u2	So the House unanimously agreed. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and a vote on the principle of Articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Articles 19, 20, 29, 30, 33, 35, 40 to 46 of Directive 2013/34/EU on ‘the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related business reports of certain types, amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC’ (EU). L 189 of 29 June 2013) and Directive 2014/95/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (EU. OJ L 330/1 of 15 November 2014) ‘amending Directive 2013/34/EU as regards the disclosure of non-financial information and information on diversity by certain large enterprises and groups’ and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 23-6-2016 to discuss the draft law in two meetings. We propose that the draft law should become uniform at the outset, on the articles and on the amendments, and that the time be adjusted. I propose that speaking time should be as follows: the rapporteurs and special speakers should be eighteen minutes, the parliamentary representatives being fifteen and the speakers being seven. I think we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u3	Time's up, shall we?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u4	The perspective of the program tonight is until 22.00 p.m. But that, you know, depends on those who want to talk. Parliamentary representatives have been appointed by SYRIZA, Ms. Kafantaris, from New Democracy Mr. Dendias, from Golden Dawn Mr. Panayotaros, from the PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Loverdos, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Karathanasopoulos, from Potami Mr. Amyras, from the ANELs Mr. Papachristopoulos, from the Centron Association Mr. Karras. The rapporteurs are from SYRIZA Mr Dimitriadis, from New Democracy Mr.Mitatakis, from Golden Dawn Mr. Sahinides, from the PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Arvanitides, from the KKE, from Potami, Ms. Markos, from ANEL Mr. Kammenos and from the Centroon Union Mr.Georgiadis. Let's start with SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr. Dimitriadis. Mr. Dimitriadis, you have the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, immediately after the evaluation and before that was completed, we had tabled the new development law. Before it closes 24 hours after its completion, we brought a new bill to the very same door, which concerns the development of the economy. Our will is stronger than ever to give the country all those institutional instruments and regulations needed for recovery. The landscape is cleaner after evaluation and the battle with the time and weaknesses of the installed system is daily. We know that we are on our way to the responsibility. We may have fewer criticisms in this Chamber, but we have multiples outside of it, in society. We are responding to the challenges of needs with a lasting battle for change and reform against the regimes that have brought us here. The present draft law is based on a needs of general government. It consists of two sections which are: The first is the completion of the transposition of Directive 34 of 2013 on annual financial statements and the full integration of Directive 95 of 2014 on the disclosure of non-financial information for large enterprises and groups, and the second is the individual arrangements for the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism. They are legislative interventions resulting from the needs of the daily lives of citizens and the acceleration of government work. Our aim, which goes on to do all of this, is to strengthen democracy, reduce spending, remove special advantages within the public sector, improve the operational service of productive activities, remove red tape injustices and failures, save resources for professionals and entrepreneurs from unnecessary costs. Co-chairs and colleagues, firstly, most of Directive 34/2013, which contains rules on accounting, has already been incorporated into Greek law by Law 4308/2014. Directive 95/2014 introduces the obligation to publish data on the work of environmental, social and jurisprudence aspects. The provisions incorporated in the draft law concern the content of the management report and the conditions of publicity of all annual financial statements. The Directive regulates uniform rules for the drafting and disclosure of the financial statements of public limited companies, limited companies, private capital companies and those with an unlimited liability partner. In addition, for large enterprises active in the mining industry or in the harvesting of primary forests an obligation to draw up a government payment report is introduced. Secondly, the legislation in force provides for the capital companies to draw up and publish a management report. This is why the provisions of these Directives are incorporated through the amendment of the relevant provisions of 2190 of 20 and of the legislation for the EIA and IKE, where appropriate. Under the proposed regulations, firstly, in application of the priority principle to small enterprises, these are exempted from the obligation to draw up a management report provided that certain minimum information guarantees set out in the budget appendix are respected. Where a report is drawn up, it shall be exempt from the obligation to publish it. It does not apply to undertakings of public interest. The micro-enterprises are those that meet two of the three following criteria: total assets of up to EUR 350,000, net turnover of up to EUR 700,000 and average employees of up to 10 people. The draft law incorporates the adjustments to be applied in respect of consolidated group reports. In addition, an individual and consolidated management report is also available for those enterprises that have to draw up a single management report now incorporate it in a single one. Secondly, for large enterprises and enterprises of public interest the obligation to include in the report on the management of analytical non-financial information, which deals with the company's policy and practice in relation to environmental, labour and rightfulness issues, is introduced. In particular for listed companies which are required and in a declaration of corporate governance, information on the diversity of administrative bodies, as regards gender, age, educational and professional history of members, is available. Under the current scheme, the declaration was compulsory content of the management report. It is now possible to draw up a separate document, posted on the company’s website. In practice, it reduces administrative costs in publishing. Thirdly, the principle of publication is introduced only in the approved financial statements. The present scheme provides for the so-called dual publication, i.e. companies were obliged to send to the GFCM a copy of the financial statements twenty days before a general meeting was convened and, secondly, after its adoption by the general meeting. The obligation to publish statements is now introduced only once, twenty days after their adoption by the General Assembly, thus significantly reducing the relative administrative burden. It should be noted here that the obligation to publish financial data in the newspapers has been converted from 1-1-2016 to a fully optional, in accordance with the provision of Article 202 of Law 4281/2014. Fourthly, the minimum content of the audit report, drawn up by statutory auditors, is defined. Fifthly, for large companies active in the foreign industry or in the harvesting of primary forests, the obligation to draw up payments to the governments is introduced, in which payments of more than EUR 100,000 will be reflected. In the second part of this bill, we have the arrangements for the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism, first chapter, the arrangements for our office at the Economic Council in Geneva and the OECD. Articles 66A and 67A complete the Agency's gap in the Ministry's development sector in terms of the positions and qualifications of the permanent Greek delegation to the OECD and the Office of the Economic Council in Geneva. This supplement is to cover more effectively the needs of these services and to improve and define their operating framework. The main differences in the current framework are identified in the following points: Firstly, the positions of officials serving in these services are reduced from seven to five. Secondly, the arbitrary reimbursement of grades of corresponding secretaries or embassy advisers to the above officials shall be abolished, giving the corresponding financial benefit to these posts and benefits. Thirdly, there is a precise determination of the formal and substantive qualifications required to ensure the evaluation of these positions. Fourthly, there is a time limit for the secondment to be made at three years, with the possibility of an extension of two years, and the practice so far has been the definition of posted officials and provision has been made for the compulsory stay of officials in organic posts for three years. That is, of course, the prediction. It is therefore possible to harmonise with the provisions of the Staff Code. Fifthly, for the first time, the delivery-receipt framework is defined by these leaders to ensure both continuity and proper operation. Sixthly, there is for the first time a restriction on the costs of building our permanent representative in the OECD, which has so far been unlimited. Article 12 clearly defines the framework for the winding-up of the ICM by reintroducing the clearing rights to the General Meeting of shareholders. Article 13 introduces a provision for the possibility of secondments, transfers and transfers of officials or civil servants of an indefinite duration, with a view to strengthening the organisational structure of the GPSD. In Chapter 2, issues relating to purely internal functioning of the ESDP services are regulated. This provision amends Law No.4314, the well-known NSRP law, for the period 2014-2020. Firstly, it is possible to set up evaluation committees for the local development programmes of the ESDP and the ESDP. The content of the decisions to appoint intermediate management bodies is also limited. I'm so sorry, but I'm gonna stop here. I will say the rest in my dentistry, because for some technical reason I have lost the rest of my report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u6	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u7	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u8	You planned out of the way to reach agreement or not to agree to an attempt to complete the plenary sitting in a more rational manner today and tomorrow. And I agreed. As far as I am concerned, and as the majority colleague speaks, we can see, Mr Mitsarakis, that other amendments have been tabled over an hour ago. This thing, Mr President, cannot go on like this. It is an incorporation of a directive and the amendments come very badly. I'm not looking at the subject. I am considering that some of them are draft laws. In this way, Mr President, prior to the legislative procedure in Parliament, the CENE, the Central Preparatory Committee, the Directorate for Scientific Studies, the debate in the Standing Committee, i.e. all the guarantees - I say this morning - of good legislation. What will happen, Mr President? This thing won't stop? Does a Minister want to legislate? Let him take responsibility for the legislative initiative. What's gonna happen? I am in a good mood and the Democratic Partnership is in a good mood. Are you telling us to move this process faster? We agree. Because the plenary on Thursday has a new obligation under the 'COSCO' Convention. Let's all help. But, over here, the government takes it as a weakness. It is not possible, Mr President, to continue this. It's not possible! So what do you want? Shall we make the House a field for procedural matters? How will the government understand that he doesn't do what he wants? It's not her house. This is the Greek Parliament. How will he understand that he must respect us? I am not saying anything particularly urgent and very useful not to come. He's coming! But there are amendments here half an hour ago. Have amendments been incorporated into the Standing Committee? Accepted, even though you avoid this way and the CENE and the consultation. But here in Parliament's plenary, would they come at the last minute? What of these issues we're reading now didn't know about it the other day? None of this, Mr President. Nothing is today. Do something, Mr President. We, from protesting, have no other method.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u9	Mr Metatakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the adaptation of Greek legislation to European directives today, which the heart of Europe is beating at the European Council in Brussels. This gives me an opportunity to make a brief introductory comment. After the referendum in the United Kingdom, the landscape in Europe will increasingly look like animated sand. Developments are expected to be characterised in the medium term by high volatility in both the political and economic spheres. Management within the next year will be crucial, as they identify the future of the entire European building. We are facing a European crisis, political and institutional. And the accident for our country is that it has not yet come out of the vortex of its own economic crisis, which started six years ago. That is why the responsibilities of all of us are very great. Margins for new errors in Greece do not exist. Economic policy no longer has any room for it to be credible and effective. The British did not turn their back on the European Union because they reacted to austerity policies. The bitter truth is that they have fallen victim to a populism which has loaded almost every evil that has arisen in Europe. They were victims of politicians who, to be climbed, were on the easy road to defamation of the European idea. A European idea, of course, that we all agree that there is a need for a substantial regeneration and redefinition of objectives. And now I think we should agree on some critical assumptions. Firstly, the rise in northern European scepticalism is not a development that is of interest to Greece. Secondly, Brexit brings our country into a worse negotiating position, as the sweater started to fade. And thirdly, the attitude of Europeans from now on can be harder, because the behaviour of governments and parliaments in Member States will now be much more determined by their own criteria of internal political destiny. It is a pity that even now some people appear to be unaware of the new European field, which some appear to be happy about the rise of Euroscepticism and return, without proposing anything specific, that it is now, he says, the opportunity to free ourselves from the memoranda and from austerity, that we can now claim a special relationship with the European Union that will benefit us. This fraud chapter must finally be closed. We must regain our national seriousness and responsibility, work with a realistic plan. Only then will we be able to get our country out of the crisis, offer the country growth, the people of jobs and a sense of security that is so missing. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a multi-project by the Ministry of Economy and Development, which certainly has nothing to do with the challenges of the times. This is essentially a break-in at first reading of irrelevant arrangements between the de minimis arrangements, but there is a link, and I shall refer to them. The first part, Articles 1 to 8, are the adaptation of Greek legislation to European directives, the rules relating to the content of the management report and the obligation to make public financial statements and other relevant information of public limited companies, companies or even of certain private companies. Adaptation is carried out without any particular innovation on the part of the legislation but formal provisions. I consider it particularly important that the provision of Article 7, which introduces transparency rules for companies active in the mining industry, which should make all payments made to both the central government and regional and local government public in order for citizens and local communities to know the economic impact of the mining industry in return for the nuisance it creates. I should like to point out, Mr Minister, two points which have arisen in the debate in committee. First of all, the Commission's conclusion is pending, under the chairmanship of Professor Perraki, which drafted a draft law on the reform of the law of public limited companies about two years ago. And, secondly, with regard to speeding up the posting of useful information on GFCM, we have proposed that direct posting, with the indication that they have not yet checked, all the information submitted by the companies electronically, of course on their own responsibility. We are voting in favour of Part One as we voted positively on the principle of the draft law. As far as the second part is concerned, I have to put myself in an article because of the structure of the bill. Of course, there's a central idea. The second part, like most of SYRIZA's legislation, is based on three points in common. Firstly, the creation of new state structures, i.e. more state. Secondly, the provision of continuous extensions to the application of already adopted laws. And thirdly, new recruitments and the continuation of anxieties in the public sector. These are the common lines of all the articles of Part Two and of the amendments. More specifically in the first chapter, which contains provisions on the structure and organisation of OECD AACC, we disagree with the proposed provisions, as a status of ministerial subjectivity is maintained in all foreign positions. In particular, I should like to stress that Article 11 speeds up the return to Athens of the already servants, to go to new ones, giving rise to strong reservations from the Qualified Opposition. In conjunction with Article 13, which proposes by way of derogation from the existing provisions of the GSP, there is a clear need, Minister, to strengthen evaluation and merit in the public sector and to simplify all procedures for the exploitation of human resources. The second chapter, Article 14, which we are voting against, regulates matters of the competence of the General Secretariat for Public Investment and the ESDP. And we disagree on four points: Firstly, it multiplys the effective structures of the NRP in the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and the Ministry of the Environment, Energy and Climate Change. Instead of having a final structure in each Ministry, we create a personal service, a perfect structure for each Deputy Minister, of course by nominating more heads. Secondly, this amendment provides the favourable possibility of recruiting private-law staff for a fixed term in the framework of co-financed projects without procedures, without approval by the AACC or another independent authority, by amending the RAC 33/2006 on public recruitment. Thirdly, by means of provisions, it gives the power to move staff of the NSRP staff with ministerial decisions from other ministries, not from the Ministry of Economy, to break up a basic principle, which is the single administration of the NSRP staff structures. Fourthly, in Article 39, L.4314/2014, Article 39 provides for specific procedures of aptitude - and your State Secretary, Mr. Haritsis, in his honor, told the committee that L.4314/2014 is very aptituded - for the placement of Heads of the "S.A.". They should have completed until 31 December 2015, but the relevant Ministerial Decision has not been adopted. Here too, there is a request for an indefinite extension until these ministerial decisions are made. Minister, I think that this needs to be changed and a specific deadline of three months should be set at the latest for the adoption of ministerial decisions. The third chapter regulates matters of responsibility of the General Secretariat for Industry. Generally speaking, the forecasts for the simplification of procedures and the liberalization of professions are positive. Chapter 4 regulates matters of competence of the General Secretariat of Trade and Consumer Protection. In general terms, the forecasts are also positive here. I would like to make a special reference to Article 28, which abolishes your own law, Article 31(2) of Law No.4321/2015, which represented the legal shareholders of their company's debts to social security bodies, thereby effectively abolishing the concept of legal person, criminalising entrepreneurship. And this provision has improved even further in the committee by abolishing the liability of company administrations for their debts when there is no fraud or negligence in paying contributions. The fifth chapter regulates tourism issues, which are essentially technical, non-essential additions to existing laws. We still disagree with Article 37, which stipulates that the percentage in favour of the EOT, paid by Corfu and Parnitha casinos, instead of being given by the competent national authority directly to the EOT, as is currently the case, will be attributed to the Ministry of Finance and then to the EOT through the state budget. This is a provision, which in doubt and at any time puts in place and cut the funds necessary for the EOT to promote Greek tourism and the poor experience of the state subsidies under exceptional circumstances makes us very sceptical. We also disagree with Article 38, which gives a new, two-year extension until the end of 2017, to do what? The inventory of the under liquidated Tourism Education and Training Organization. But how many years do it take to make a census of an organism that closed down? It takes years? We disagree on that, too. Amendment Nos 39 and 53 have been incorporated into the committee and I will be more specifically put to the amendments tomorrow morning. But let me refer to Article 44, which allows legal persons governed by public law and private law of the Ministry of Labour to make contracts, without any procedure, for the cleanliness and preservation of supervised structures. This is a very clear setback and I do not think it can be accepted by anyone in this Chamber. I would like to stress that we have accepted in committee a number of ministerial amendments brought by the government. To be honest - my colleagues in the Committee on Production and Trade will remember - I mentioned it as a positive one, that it is an improvement from this government's worst piece of legislation to bring the amendments to the committee, that the ministers have come to the committee, that they have been incorporated and given to Parliament several days before voting. We said then that we would not accept new amendments in plenary. So far I have seven, from 516 to 522. Probably while I'm in Stepma, others have been filed. You realise that this practice of misrepresentation - and I know, Minister, that you are particularly sensitive to this issue personally, and I apologise for the tuna staff - cannot be accepted and it would be good if these amendments were withdrawn. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill will not bring growth, as unfortunately the development law you voted on a few days ago will not bring it. The world expects you to deal with the situation in the real economy. For example, today's news is one of the most recent publications of the request for admission to the Banking Code of a very large chain of supermarkets. We had warned that the market situation in the last year has become explosive and, unfortunately, every week some example comes to confirm this position. Of course, we all understand the consequences here when thousands of workers work in this business and when the company's obligations to other private companies amount, according to the first information, to around 750 million. You realise the danger that this development has in the Greek economy. You must, therefore, change the lines, stop the existing measures that are kneeling the real economy, consumers, the market and business. The world now expects substantial answers and not meaningless ideologies. No one is moved by these internal convergings, whether you are the owner of the program. The world expects seriousness, responsibility and above all truth and solutions to the major problems facing us. And this government and this bill we are debating today is certainly not part of the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Metarakis. Mr. Shahinides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a draft law which refers to the adaptation of Greek legislation. Finally, tell us: when will Greece stop adapting to European Union directives? And if you want Greece to adapt to specific European legislation, you should first adjust the wages to Greece with the wages of Europe, you should adapt the health system of Greece to the health system of Europe, you should adapt the social state to Greece with the social state of Europe, and anyway, stop trying to make adjustments in relation to a Union that proved to be in no way acceptable. If you want, try to make a referendum here in Greece as well. But unfortunately, here in Greece the referendums are consultative. As the English have proved, they do want a Europe of nations. What's next? Have you thought about the consequences of the so-called Brexit? We mentioned it exactly ten days ago in the same Chamber. Have you thought that if the European Union continues to exist, Greece will be a entrepreneur in a law that will apply it to a country which will not just be a member of the Eurozone, but will not even be a member of this Union? What development are you talking about? Mr. Mitaris spoke of a real economy. Really, what is the real economy for you, Mr. Metarakis? Tell us: How many of you have experience with real work? How many of you have worked, have you made part-time, have you been in touch with the real economy? Get out and take a walk to the areas where you come from. Go on out and record the disasters that have taken place in the last few days from natural disasters in the agricultural sector. Go out and see what the real problems are. Go out and see how the Greek people will adapt you to reality, to see what adjustment means. It is unacceptable that a party has gone out lying and even improperly lying. You called "no house in a banker's hand". We as Golden Dawn say "no house in Knite's hands", because confiscations have already begun and even with prosecutors' orders, in the presence of judge-in-law. They will enter the Greek houses and seize the properties of the Greeks. You've been talking about irresponsible accounts. Nothing at all is true. Lies and lie unreservedly. You have declared war on nationalism. Keep in mind, however, that after BREXIT and after FREXIT and all the other things that will arise nationalism has long declared war in a Europe which is not a Europe of nations, but is a Europe of loan sharks. Finally, look at reality in the eyes. You brought the development law a little while ago. What development law are we talking about? It really makes me a terrible impression if you get out of this Chamber, you have even a poor contact with the reality of Greek society. Go out and see how hard the Greek biopafactor, the worker, the farmer can do. Do you dare go visit trade unionists who have to collect what they have worked for by their employers? Do you dare go and record or visit areas that have been affected - as I mentioned before - by the natural disasters? No, you've been locked in your crock. Get out, take a close look at the problems, and now face reality. As far as the draft law is concerned, I will once again refer to Article 31, which we shall also be voting in favour of. But do you know why? We will also wait here again to see whether this state actually works by two measures and two standards. For those who do not know it and who were not in the committees, Article 31 refers to the fines, which will be imposed on those who set up illegal scenes. We'll tell you from now on where the illegal scenes are. These are the illegal scenes of illegal immigrants who have left the hot spots. You did the following thing as far as Idomeni is concerned. You carried two thousand illegal immigrants with buses and ten thousand left behind who went to forests, canyons, streets have set up scenes. Is this gonna apply to them here? And as I've told you, at some mess festival you're doing, at some protest marches that are set here under the Constitution and setting up scenes, that's where they're going to be applied all of these or are you going to apply them selectively? Your democracy is very selective, gentlemen. You should really listen to the Greek people, you should really listen to the problems of the Greek people. The problem, as I said before, is not to make adjustments as a country in European legislation and in European directives. We should be taking initiatives as a country and demanding that the European Union should take what we are entitled to. Greece has paid it very much for its entry into the euro. These subsidies, which have been granted through the European Union, unfortunately, have made Greek do not produce anything, have completely destroyed the primary production sector. Do you dream of this European Union? Are you asking for this Europe for the Greeks? Oh, no. If you want to see the reality, do a referendum in Greece as well to see if the Greek people want to be under the domination of foreign loan sharks, if they want and are envisioned by the Greek people for their children, a future which will be uncertain and if they really want the Greek people to continue to be under the boot of the strong. This is what we saw. What did we watch? Indeed, as Mr Metarakis said before, Britain had no question of austerity. There is another issue here. We had the issue of loan sharks here, which one of the two would run the test, and probably because the people of Britain had not entered the eurozone - not that they love us more, no one loves Greece more than the Greeks - they wanted to take the lead. Because he didn't just sit them, they did the referendum. And I hope that other referendums will follow, so that you can finally see that Europe and the peoples of Europe are indeed calling for and seeking for a Europe of nations rather than a loan-to-people Europe. We, as Golden Dawn, will resist all of what the loan sharks handle and try to do through draft laws, by means of amendments that come to the bayonds. It is indeed a question of wondering about these amendments that they are coming in such a way that they are repeatedly. It's not something unprecedented. While they have some parts in it, which we would really like to support, because it is right for our country to apply is, unfortunately, forbidden - I told the committee too - to vote on some of these articles because they are incorporated. While they have positive elements, we cannot. Stop legislating now, this way. It is unacceptable at the last moment that amendments should be made. It is unacceptable that we come in the middle of draft laws on several occasions, which you also blamed for the previous conflicts, but from what we see here there is an absolute conglomeration as far as your predecessors are concerned. For what you have been accusing your predecessors, you are doing exactly the same on several occasions. Result? No difference at all. For us, left and right, as we have always said, you are the same in food. For us, the Greek nationalists, it doesn't change anything at all. Finally, prove that you represent the Greek people in this Chamber. Protect the interests of the Greek people. Decide solely on the interests of the Greek people and stop making European adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u13	Thank you. Mr Arvanitides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the wake of a historic referendum in Britain, the Greek Parliament is called upon to incorporate two important European directives into its national law. Of course, let us not forget that today we also have the birthday of imposing capital controls. A year has passed with lost capacity for the European acquis of the free movement of capital. "Happy birthday", therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the government, for the results you have caused in Greek society! Let me say a few words and a few thoughts outside the bill, because of the juncture. The European Union was created as a response to the tragic consequences of two catastrophic world wars, in response to the extreme forms of nationalism which humanity paid very expensively. The idea that we can only go forward together, only united ones can ensure the well-being of the peoples of Europe has worked out and continues to bear fruit for decades. The move from the EEC to the European Union and the establishment of the common currency in 2002 sealed the faith of the European States in the vision of a united Europe, making many believe that we have been well placed in an orbit firmly and on a path without return. Sadly, however, a few years later, in 2005, the vision of deeper integration accepted the first serious question. It was then that France and the Netherlands rejected the Euro-elections constitution with two successive referendums. This bell seems to have not been heard as carefully as Euroscepticism has started to gain ground. Today, in Europe, the economic crisis and fiscal orthodox the messages of Euroscepticism come in the most alarming way. The battle for a new progressive European path is a battle worth giving and the European socialists and democrats must be and we will be in the front line. We need to have common pace with the young people who believe in Europe and its values. We must listen carefully to what the disillusioned citizens tell us. The European vision must be about society as a whole and not a small or larger elite. We have a historic obligation to give back vision and hope to the citizens, as Andrew Papandreou, François Miteran, Villa Brad. The messages, ladies and gentlemen, from today's meeting in Brussels by the European Socialists, in which the President of the PASOK is also involved, are positive and I think it is time to dare a new European Treaty. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the bill now, as I have to say. The first eight articles of the bill regulate the way in which thirty thousand Greek companies will make their financial and non-financial data public from now on. In practical terms, then, we are mainly talking about how the balance sheets and actions of responsible entrepreneurship, actions under corporate social responsibility will be published. In more detail, in the first part of the bill, Greek legislation is being harmonised by provisions of Directives 2013/34/EU and 2014/95/EU concerning the rules governing the format and content of the annual financial statements, management reports, measurement bases used and the publication of these documents by capital companies and certain personal companies. The main objective is, by harmonising the way in which these elements are presented, to achieve better protection for the shareholders, the partners and each third party involved. So we have three axes. These three axes are: More transparency, better publicity and easier access to these elements. At the same time, the aim is to alleviate the additional administrative burden on firms by simplifying and even eliminating the obligations. At the practical level of the financial data, this means that the anonymous companies and the APRC and the IMIs and certain personalities will from now on have the obligation to register only authorised financial statements in the GFCM. I now come to non-financial data. Here, the bill only has provisions for public-interest enterprises employing more than five hundred people. I realise that it might be difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises to also be forced to make public information about their corporate social responsibility actions. It is, however, worth strengthening the companies that do so and looking at the way in which we are dealing with responsible entrepreneurship in our country. Responsibility for entrepreneurship and corporate social responsibility is often only wrong with charity, social welfare, environmental awareness, although in reality these two concepts reflect the wider imprint that an enterprise leaves both internally and externally. In fact, at the level of the public opinion, these actions are identical, in particular, to the initiatives of large enterprises, although the figures for Greece show that small and medium-sized enterprises are also largely involved and implement similar actions. This reality runs counter to the existing regulatory framework, since for small and medium-sized enterprises there are so far no standards and procedures that define corporate social responsibility. The main difficulty factor is the diversity of sectors and the difficulty in recording standards and procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, this should not, however, be an obstacle to the further development of corporate social responsibility and to those sizes of businesses. At a time when citizens choose more ecologically and socially sensitive products and services from businesses that are looking after the continuous satisfaction of staff and suppliers, the state must act in anticipation and with a plan, rewarding responsible entrepreneurship. In this direction, I have three proposals to make: firstly, an interesting innovation would be the creation of a digital platform, which is linked to GFCM and would enable small and medium-sized enterprises to register easily and free of charge corporate social responsibility actions. In this way, the necessary information will be provided directly and simply to the State, consumers and customers of the company, whether they are within or outside Greece. Secondly, it is necessary to create a national body responsible for responsible entrepreneurship, a body responsible for integrating the guidelines, the drawing up of rules for the printing of corporate social responsibility actions and the coordination of business communication with the relevant bodies, such as regions and chambers. Thirdly, it will be worth shaping, after a broad social and political dialogue, a single framework of principles and practices for the interconnection of corporate social responsibility with public procurement. Already in many European countries, such as Germany, Denmark and Great Britain, socially responsible enterprises have a different treatment regime. The other regime in public procurement is a practice that can make a significant contribution to further strengthening business responsibility and extroversion. I now come to the second part of the bill and other provisions. I would like to say first of all that, due to a limited period of time for Articles 39 to 53 and the seven new amendments, I will be placed in the debate on the articles. Articles 9 to 11 attempt to change the criteria for the selection of heads and staff at the Permanent Representation to the OECD and the Office of Economic Adviser in Geneva. First of all, there is nowhere to be seen the need to remove the secondments of all staff. If there are problems with the functioning of the institutions, you should mention them, which you have not done until now. Unlike the provision you are proposing you will create rather than solve problems, as there is a risk that they will be found within a year without experienced staff at a difficult time and a short time. Also, keep without any obvious reason the provision prohibiting the transfer of officials to service for three years. With Article 13, the dismantling of the Staff Code continues. Remove secondments by way of general derogation under Article 68. Generally derogation are transfers to empty organic positions without having presented any specific reasons. A special derogation shall also be made in Article 14( 11b) only for the period of secondment. Two meters and two weights, depending on what suits you every time. For Article 14 you will, of course, collect a large 'no'. You may present changes in the law of the NSRP as a technical one, but in reality you are attempting significant changes in the way you manage, staff and recruitment. In particular, in paragraph 5 you include the exceptions to the Act on the suspension of recruitment, other than works contracts, and fixed-term and hourly employment contracts, in order to circumvent the procedure of the Act of Ministerial Council on recruitment. Likewise, in paragraph 1 you should change the wording so that it is clear that the removal of the suggestion of the regional authority concerned concerns only specific programmes and not all of the NRP programmes. We call on you to take back paragraph 3 by which you recommend new NSRP staff structures, where only for liability-sharing allowances to the heads of staff will there be an annual cost of EUR 73,000 without additional operating expenses being calculated. All this is because the ministers cannot cooperate with each other. On the contrary, we are also in paragraph 11(d), where you are attempting to extend the transitional provisions to the procedures for the placement and movement of personnel indefinitely. You're trying to legitimize all the options you've made in positions of responsibility. In Article 15, although paragraph 1 is positive, the other paragraphs for which you are attempting to change the licensing criteria of business parks and industries are controversial. I asked the committee to answer why you are reducing the acres to create a business park in two phases from two thousand to one thousand and from where this decision is documented. Are there any investments that they cannot make as a result of the current restriction? If they exist and you do it to move forward, let us know about it, so we know what really is going on. The same applies to changes in the minimum margins of public spaces. The same applies to Article 22, with which you are increasing the months for the technical reconstruction of an enterprise from eighteen to thirty-six months. Tell us which categories of companies they need this double year for technical reconstruction, so that we can understand it. Article 26 confers competence on the European Commission to provide information on the provisions of national law by the GFCM Supervisory Board to the central office of the Ministry of Development. As indicated in the EBEA memorandum, the department of the Ministry is already involved in the Supervisory Board. What, then, is the feasibility of this arrangement? I close with Article 37 on how to render public participation in mixed revenues of Parnitha and Corfu Casinos. Here too there are questions, because the regulation you are bringing is a risk that this money will not be paid in part or in full for their actual purpose. I say this because, while this money should cover the costs of the promotion and advertising of the EOT and the Greek Festival, there is ultimately a case with the regulation that you make use of, to simply close holes in the ordinary budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u15	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u16	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u17	I would ask the rapporteurs first to speak to conclude. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. With this bill in its basic provisions, the Government is unsolved of unfinished business groups, which are an obstacle to the investment invasion which prepares for the dismantling of Community and state funding, the implementation of the new development law, which has voted against our party and which is, of course, marked by new provocative advantages to the large capital, new tax exemptions and State aids. In this draft law, the proposed provisions, the most important ones, lay down rules which are necessary for the functioning of the capitalist market, are subject to the strategic aim of recovering profits and competitiveness of domestic capital, attracting profitable investments on the line of comparative advantage of extroversion, and creating larger business patterns. Articles 1 to 8 shall incorporate in Greek law the Community Directives 2013/34/EU and 2014/95/EU, in order to achieve the coordination of the national provisions of the Member States of the European Union as regards the format and content of the management reports and the conditions for the publication of financial statements of the capital companies. The rules of the European Union are being harmonized, in order to know the financial sizes for any investor, not as the transparency bill says in general, but to ensure that any acquisitions, mergers of business groups within the context of increasing competition between them are made on an equal footing. In this way, the single business activity is achieved, measures are adopted to ensure the free movement of services, goods and capital, as provided for in the Maastricht Treaty, the so-called 'frequent investment climate' with as few risks and risks as possible, the access of capitalists to financial activities and information from other business groups, so that they can safely move their capital from industry to industry, where their interests are not safeguarded or threatened by competitors. It reduces operating costs and forms more favourable legal, tax exemptions as provided for in the new development law. Such arrangements in favour of large companies are also included in Articles 23 and 26 of the General Commercial Register. In other words, it arranges a series of structural interventions with specifications that favour the capital companies, which are ambitious to penetrate dynamic sectors of the economy and production, as the Association of Greek Industrialists calls for. In addition, the report itself, which assesses the consequences of these arrangements directly admits that these arrangements shield and benefit banks, suppliers, candidate investors, facilitate the growth of monopolistic enterprises, their quick and safer profitability, achieve its recovery. The European Union in this way wants to ensure the investment confidence of business groups, the free movement of capital in the competition game between them for who will eventually get won, for who will get the largest share of the sum of billions of the ESDP, the Juncker Programme and other European programmes. The interests of capital shall be safeguarded. There is thus the European Union itself, or else the European Union's existence is directly bound up with protecting the monopolistic interests. So the bourgeois state is coming - the government in this case with the bill - in the context of these anti-grassroots directions of the European Union in a referee role and forms a regulatory framework in which the new anti-competitive stumbling blocks of business groups will take place, hoping that the battle will take place with as few blows as possible. These arrangements create a safe environment for capitalists and insecurity, poverty, labour jungle, a reduction in the price of labour and unemployment for the vast majority of our people. They have nothing to do with guaranteeing people's interests, the sustainability of small and medium-sized enterprises with their people's needs. The memorials of lasting, the cut-off of social costs and the raisins will haunt the daily lives of the people and the permanent anti-grass measures will be widened, always on the pretext of the competitiveness of the monopolies. Will anyone say "also enemies see the JRC"? How then explains the wicked introduction of Article 28 to the literality of a line where the government, by paying back bills of support to the Greek Industrial Association in its anti-Fraud Policy, comes and repeals its own earlier legislation that it had on 20 March 2015 with Law4321 and in particular Article 31 par. 2, which said that the large shareholders of a company that is dismantled or merged are themselves responsible for repayment of its debts to its insurance funds. This Article 28 exempts big shareholders from any personal liability for the company's debts to the insurance funds. That'll say favourable investment paradise. We, as a JRC, had then voted "Fees" in this article because it excluded the shareholders of companies listed on the Stock Exchange. As if that were not enough, however, the government, the Ministry and the Minister went a step further. By legislative improvement it has submitted to the committee in this unacceptable article it is abolishing and whatever responsibility the members of the management of the company had, legal representatives, presidents, managers, directors, clearers and others. In Article 31(1), the words ‘regardless of the time of their survival’ shall be deleted and the words ‘when they acted in defiance or negligence in the performance of their duties relating to the payment of contributions’ shall be added, which is very easy for the company to deal with and to be completely relieved. Prior to intervention by employers' organizations with the characteristics of the Association of Businesses of Pleasant and Ready Clothing of Greece, which, of course, in a letter to the Commission, noted very specifically that no investor, both from Greece and from abroad, undertakes to guarantee with his own property and to be criminally exposed if a business idea, in which he trusted his money, fails for any reason. Employers' suggestions finally contradicted the government's 'yes men' 'first time left'. What small and medium-sized enterprises have such favourable arrangements? What popular family, when getting a loan, or when owed to its insurance funds, is relieved of any difficulties in repayment? So warm state money is being given to set up their shop and full discharge when they go bankrupt or merge. The result is the haircuts, tax debts and banks and the OAU and the disappearance of small and medium-sized enterprises. Until now, neither in the committee today nor in the committee, the representatives of SYRIZA, ANEL and the Centro Association have absolutely cried out nothing about Article 28. They got past it with light jumpers. Silence, of course, is an agreement and complicity. In fact, through this process, you load the broken companies into the already looted insurance funds. You even ridiculed the employees of “ELECTONIC ATHENS” when the Insurance Act had included a provision extending the provisions of Article 31 of Law No.4321/2015 in the case of the company’s debt to employees. The rest of the parties - the New Democracy, the PASOK, and the Potami - welcomed it with joy and criticism to the government because they did not listen to them when they were invoking it for the March provision which responsible the big shareholders for the repayment of the company's debts to the insurance funds. It was accepted by the fascist criminal organisation of Golden Dawn, whose rapporteur even endorsed the provision, saying that "the provision to be abolished would surely have an extremely deterrent effect on the development of entrepreneurship in the form of corporate forms, and that is why we are saying in favour". So, so we don't forget who he is with. They sell protection to shipowners and big businessmen not only outside Parliament, but also within Parliament, by voting and by accepting these provisions. Therefore, in absolute co-ordination with the first chapter of Articles 9 to 13 on the upgrading of the institutional framework, on the operation of the Permanent Greek Representation to the OECD and the Economic Adviser Office in Geneva, the Government is coming to modernise, strengthen the permanent mechanisms for implementing the reactionary, anti-grassroots OECD in a series of interventions in sectors and sectors of the economy, in the direction of implementing the OECD toolbox, in the context of the free movement of services, such as the opening up of closed professions, the abolition of the institution of the already damaged collective agreements by employers, the operation of retail shops on all Sundays, internal maritime transport, the interconnection of HEIs and TIs with enterprises. We are opposed to these provisions in Articles 9 to 13. The amendment of the provisions of L.4314/2011, as provided for in Article 14 of the second chapter, shall settle outstandings in the SSR's staff structures, set up evaluation committees for the Rural Development Programme, for the Operational Programmes for Fisheries and Maritime. The Government seeks to harmonise these arrangements with the so-called ‘development assistance 2014-2020’, to ensure the warm state-owned Community money on behalf of business groups. For example, the Rural Development Programme - a budget of about EUR 5 billion - will be directed entirely towards programmes to strengthen the capitalist character of the agricultural sector, such as improving the competitiveness of agricultural holdings, supporting production products with an export character - so support for export capital - to support processing and marketing enterprises for agricultural products. The same will happen with the Fisheries and Maritime Programme. The sum of billions of Community programmes under the new Partnership Pact is coming to serve the capital strategy, which SYRIZA - ANEL has promoted, as did the former Republic of New Democracy and PASOK. These finances strengthen domestic capital with a slogan of 'enterprise-competitiveness-innovation' and are directed towards the sectors and sectors of the economy which make large profits to the investors concerned, to the business groups in tourism, to the agri-food sector, to the supply chain, to the environmental industry, to the pharmaceutical industry and to the health sector, to energy, transport, to information and communication technologies. Aid for exporting enterprises, the certification of agri-foodstuffs, the promotion of tourism, and the articles on tourism below. In the same direction, of course, regional operational programmes will also be used, i.e. funds managed directly by the regions and with an emphasis on infrastructure projects - either through PPPs or through concessions - with expensively paid services in water, garbage, road tolls. In this context, therefore, the public works, supply and service contracts and the revision of the law on public-private partnerships will also be the basis of these mechanisms. This means making best use of the funds for projects and sectors that generate profits in capital. In other words, with sweat, the workers' slaves will strengthen their businesses to increase productivity, as they say, which will be accompanied by a reduction in the price of the labour force - the wage costs which the Association of Greek Industrialists and the Government - the displacement of labour, the working relations between the GDR and the impoverishment of the working class of our people. These reactionary arrangements are the tools for exiting the capital crisis and strengthening its competitiveness. So for the JRC either with the previous structures or with the proposed definite structures the substance does not change. Article 14 also deals with issues in the functioning of operators in contrast to the proposals of workers. We say that these services and structures, which is why labour issues should not be a separate structure, but a part of the public. That is why we are voting against. In Chapter 3, Articles 15 to 22 amend the institutional framework for the authorisation of technical, professional and manufacturing units and regulate the issue of authorisation and operation of business parks. For the purposes of Article 15, we vote'residences' for the following reason: the first paragraph amends the provisions of Law 3982/2011 on the licensing of technical professions. The possibility of taking part in the examinations in other regions from that of the professional seat in the event that the regional committee provided for in the law has not established or operated. Here we point out the risk that the situation will be permanent and that examination committees will never be set up in the regions. We do not agree with paragraphs 2 to 7. They concern arrangements for the licensing of business parks. Those amendments simplify the procedures for issuing operating permits for business parks for the preparation of studies, the minimum area and the environmental studies required. This effectively abolishes a large part of the state control process which is now being transferred to the craftsman. The question is: A self-employed or small craftsman with two employees has the ability to settle and operate in a business park, bearing in mind the cost of purchasing land, the cost of building the building, etc.Huh? Not particularly in such crisis situations. We are in this regard examining the arrangements in question. So here we are negative. With Article 16, on the extension of a deadline for the replacement of permits for technical professions, we agree. Article 17 concerning the definition of a specialty in the process of matching old licences with existing specific professionals in the electricity conservator's profession - relates mainly to lifts, self-employed or workers - we also agree. We reserve Article 18 because in the first part on the procedure for replacing the permits of technical refrigeration facilities and on the assimilation of the procedure laid down for the other technical professions, - plumbers, electricians and others - we agree. However, we do not agree with the second part on the case of a delay of a visa beyond five years of validity, which provides for the reintegration and payment of the offenders. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Here I would like to say: some existing problems of technical, self-employed and workers may be facilitated, but they do not affect the substance of licensing. They do not affect the substance because they are based in Law 3982/2011 on the licensing of technical professions, which is based on the Bolkenstein Directive. For all the other articles, as well as for the amendments, we will be in the sitting tomorrow. What I would like to say, Mr President, is that, with all the above, it is clear that the arrangements - which the government is doing with this bill actually creates an investment paradise for business groups. It is a policy that favours business groups. Of course, all of this will be accompanied by a new supplementary memorandum, with the hits at the workplace. We also have the confession of increasing or liberalising the mass redundancies, abolishing collective labour agreements, trade union law, privatisation and other regional airports and ports. What workers need to do, what workers need to do for them, is to organise as quickly and more decisively as possible their counter-response, question, break into a forced and effective overthrow of this policy, which is implemented by releasing from the European Union, by not recognising the debt, to direct and fight to recover the great losses of the people during the period of crisis. This means that the Rota, orientation must be in an anti-monopoly anti-capitalist direction, with radical goals of struggle, which will lead to the decisive conflict with the political and power of monopolies. The only organization is the labor opposition that can block and overthrow the new packages of anti-grass measures that come, always covered with the cloak of a supposedly fair development. In this direction the JRC, both inside and outside the House, will give its best self. As a result, we are also voting against the articles in principle, as I have said. The other articles and amendments we reserve at tomorrow's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Synergy. Mrs Marcou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill - a broom, a string of heterogeneous and fragmentary arrangements on various issues, where two important directives have been confused with any possible and unlikely outstandingness of the Ministry of Economy. This necessarily makes our position at the outset difficult. The truth is that the majority of the arrangements are procedural. We do not see the big picture on any of the issues that are being regulated. There is no major intervention, no substantial reform. Only micro-interventions are before us that do not touch the essence of the problems. We are already seeing this on the subject of the two important directives which are incorporated into our national law concerning the publicity of the financial statements, but also of non-financial elements. What's the essence here? The substance is corporate information and access to it through publicity. The attempt to harmonise the rules in place for the preparation of financial and non-statements in the Member States of the European Union is positive. These situations are the key instrument for assessing the position and situation of a company for third parties, such as suppliers, banks and investors. Their proper and timely training and publicity plays a key role in the smooth functioning of the market and in creating a climate of confidence and security of trade. That's not good enough. The imposition of obligations on companies is not simply another administrative burden. There must be supervision and control of their compliance with and their conformity and a reliable and rapid system of publicity. These days we are discussing closing one of the largest retail companies in Greece, a development that is sure to shake the market. Tell me, Minister, where are the balances of this company? In YEMA, however, they don't exist. What has this company had to do with the non-publishment? Did he ring a bell at the Ministry? How did the supervisory system work? For ELECTRONIC ATHENS, for the use from 1-7-2013 to 30-6 2014, states and balance sheet were published in GEEM on 30-6-2015, one year later. Where is speed and accuracy in information? I would like to say that the image of the position of each company is composed of a number of elements, trade, economic and legal, which must be available, both timely and user-friendly. At the same time, GFCM does not have information such as the address of a company or who is the legal representative. One example: Let one undertaking provide its services to another company and is paid by cheque. How will he know if the signatory has the right? Will it enter GEMO or FEK to download all the amendments to statutes? And if in the meantime another announcement has been issued and has not yet been uploaded to GEMH, will it run to the courts? All of these are issues that you must see, on the occasion of today's directive, in order to see how the business information system can be improved and how we can make it easier for both companies and accountants and the market as a whole. It does not help in this direction that the period of publication is growing from six to nine months, from the end of the year to the end of the year. Nor does the abolition of supervision by Article 43B, or the fragmentation of Directive 34/2013, half with Law4308 and another half with amendments to Law 2190 for companies, of course. The choice is not justified in law and it simply complicates an already demonstrable legislative framework at the expense of businesses and accountants. Nor does the abolition of publicity in the corporate page help. Costs are really low, especially in relation to the dozens of other tax and insurance charges that you have imposed on companies over the last year and a half. You have not bothered to cost them, while you are taking the evaluation report that you are saving a million euros from a hundred thousand companies, that is, the astronomical sum of 10 euros per company! With regard to social corporate responsibility and corporate governance, it is time to speak in practical terms, to tell us whether and when you intend to issue guidelines or standards in these categories. Otherwise, the provisions are incomplete. Apart from the incorporation of the directives and the indifferent or positive arrangements, there are provisions in this draft law which are not as innocent as they appear. Firstly, the provisions for the OECD. After the sudden expulsion of our previous representative to the organization last summer, which was not commented positively, you choose to set out a new procedure. In fact, qualifications and conditions are being introduced. In the transitional provisions, however, you keep the representative, who is of the choice, of course, and with the possibility of renewing his term of office, but you remove all the secondments of the other staff. That is why I did not get a reply to the committee either. Have you identified specific cooperation problems? Unfortunately, you continue the bad practice of the past, the uninterrupted "go - come" of executives in envious public positions whenever the government changes. Secondly, Article 14, which introduces changes to the new ESRB management system. You are actually going to amend a law, Law No.4314, which has not been tested. It has been voted under the pressure of the partners, but at least it has been aimed at reducing structures and improving the fragmentation of responsibilities, which has been difficult to manage. But move, as soon as possible. Increasing corporate structures again, creating two and three in every ministry. You're paying money and fees, without any assessment. Increase the positions of Heads and Deputy Directors and the latter by simple ministerial decision. Here too, you do not apply the competitive procedure provided for by Law No.4314, but refer to the preliminary procedures of Law No.3614/2007. At least the Undersecretary admitted the delay in the committee and committed that the required ministerial decisions would be adopted immediately. The question of the organisation of the management system remains the greatest thorn for the new management period. Instead of bringing about a comprehensive change in the frame, you go back to a model that has proved to be unworkable. I continue with the third chapter on the issues of the General Secretariat for Industrial Policy. A number of bureaucratic loose ends are being resolved here with regard to the lending of technical professions and industrial parks. It's all right. We don't disagree. But we'd expect to see some real moves. I imagine you have a picture of the situation in most parks. With the fourth chapter, we have interventions not negative, but de minimis. We've got reports on GEMH again. As I said before, GFCF is a truly serious and critical collection of business and economic information and from the new reforms in recent years, which have actually reduced the administrative burden on businesses. But there are problems and delays. The institutions have also analysed them, and there is nothing to do with these issues. Finally, with regard to the arrangements for tourism. We have not seen any comprehensive legislation on tourism so far. We will have an opportunity to discuss the articles in greater detail on individual issues. I will stand on the article about OTE, which has been closed since 2013, and will take four years to make the census of its mobile and immovable property. I hope that if we are here at the end of 2017, no further extension will be necessary. Other amendments have already been tabled in this block of regulation, and it will certainly follow up and amendments have already been incorporated in the committee. The one, the Minister of Labour, creates new armies of public contractors, supposedly to hit subcontractors and interests. In fact, it simply transfers the complex to an individual level, as contractors will be hired directly from the administrations, without any criterion until the end of 2017, as was done with the hospitals. Why don't you follow the procedures of the AACC, Minister? Why don't you publish notices and, if you like, share the experience. All of this, because you say that the workers' rights are being violated. I'm sorry, but isn't your Ministry competent to carry out controls on the compliance of labour legislation? Have you declared any contractors discounted for this reason? Why is Mrs Fotio not doing the same thing with those who work in poverty structures and are now staying outside the new community centres? Isn't there social sensitivity? Truly, these people as contractors of work, who are employees of companies, what employment rights will they have? Are they going to get benefits? Will they be entitled to permission? You baptize labour precariousness as supposedly social justice and mock these people. Did I also tell the committee: were the cleaners of the Ministry of Labour or were they unpaid seven months, from September 2015 to March 2016? Don't tell me again that some money was paid and they took it in December. They took every month working their wages, yes or no? It's simple what I'm asking. Will you offer this security now? We will also be in the position of the other amendments tomorrow. But I want to mention this. It is a bill of thirty-nine articles, only eight concern the two directives. Another 15 unrelated articles have already been added, and the delayed amendments are raining. This method of legislating followed by the government should be tabled without even having a debate in the committee responsible or, worse still, we should have been a habit at the last minute. Unfortunately or happily, we will never get used to it and we will continue to point out that you must respect the parliamentary procedure. Overall and despite the existence of some positive provisions, the bill remains unrealistic and unrealistic. We would expect more substantial contributions, especially in the areas of GFCM publicity and operation. Because of a lack of substance in conjunction with the regulations, which aim to create a new clientele for SYRIZA - ANEL, we are voting against the bill in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Marcus. Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are discussing the incorporation of two European directives into Greek legislation. We do not see the logic of voting against. Integration of directives is. These are directives, so the Greek Government must, within the framework of the normality and the relationship it currently has with the European Union and with the Member States of the euro area and with the European Parliament, pass these rules into its legislation. Yes, there are also amendments, and there are many other regulatory regulations, I will tell them - to forgive the use of the term - which are of direct relevance to transparency, have to do with the public being made public, they have to do with informing the public, the investors and anyone who has a legitimate interest or any reason to investigate anything in a company. There are too many loose ends, which have been left unresolved for too many years and interventions are considered positive. The Independent Greeks are in principle supporting the bill and the amendments as a whole. We'll talk more specifically tomorrow. I shall mention several issues later in my speech, but I do not want to go too far today. I will stick a little to the issues of these days, which have to do with development, because the draft law is primarily a draft development bill. The Minister responsible, Mr Stathakis, makes us the honor and is here. He's been here for hours and he's always there. On the occasion of the referendum in Great Britain, we must discuss and register in our minds and in our minds a strategy for managing this crisis, as far as our country is concerned, because our country is no longer a business. It is no longer a dynamic company, which moves within the European Union, in the euro area. It has relationships and indiscriminate ties with the countries of the Middle East, the Far East, Africa, the United States, and the whole world. In this case and after last Friday's events, opportunities for our country, Minister, are great. We've read a lot of articles. Many articles will be written these days by experts and not experts. Greece, following its long-standing ties with Great Britain, whatever directive it has to produce, whatever development law it has to bring, must also be dynamic as a government to be extremely flexible, so that we can adapt it to the needs of the time, as it is at present, very different. I would like to say this: Great growth for our country is shipping. We know all of us who have worked around the area - but even those who have not worked - what "London City" means and what it means to Greek shipping: banks, which finance Greek shipping companies of any flag, insurance companies, reinsurance companies, supply companies and all the related professions around City in London. I shall now refer to shipping. This part, because it is one of the two major steam engines of the Greek industry and of the economy, along with tourism, must be used accordingly. We have to draw up a plan with the Chambers of Commerce of Great Britain in Greece, our ambassadors and the Greek businessmen working there, together with the Greek shipowners, and with the leadership of the Ministry and the relevant ministries, such as the Ministry of Finance itself or Mr Alexiadis, in relation to tax or whatever we think to present as a proposal, as an action plan, so that we can approach new rules of involvement, with a new proposal, this market. My information in the last 24 hours, both from New York and Frankfurt, is that all these companies have already been called, without being the most suitable product as a facility in Frankfurt. Greece has the largest fleet in the world. We have the world's greatest fleet value and the largest report - I say it in the good sense - in loans to banks on board shipping. So we can put pressure on and see how we can take advantage of our country's development, tax or even on flag issues, in cooperation with the United Kingdom, without in any case wanting to take advantage of the outcome of the referendum, but in cooperation with them, for the sake of our country and also for the good of Great Britain itself. The second part is tourism. In tourism, because the pound already has a large enough fall - I would say the largest one in the last 20 years - it is uncertain and unpaid water right now and we do not know. Nevertheless, we are in the middle of a season and a season of 2017 and 2018 comes next to tourism. My opinion is that we should sit with Mrs Koundoura and Mr Stathakis, all together, the two Ministries together, in order to draw up a new plan and aim at the new data, the income criteria, insecurity, conservation of spending or whatever else she thinks of a portion of the British, after their democratic decision to leave the European Union, so that we can use it and not lose these customers. But it's possible that we could increase their shares. Always in business, as we would say, was the management of revenue. We called it'revenue management', but it is something very dynamic. At any time, you have to adjust your plans, cover the market and gaps that are created and catch the opportunities that are also created. Because we must give the British or British tourists, even in the cruise ships - with cheaper packages, with special privileges, so that we can increase the tourist movement towards Greece, or at least not lose it, not reduce it at all. The last part has to do with the piece of education. Greece will have to approach the educational institutions of Great Britain. Thousands of students currently have the first and second thoughts either on the grounds of changing passports, access, free movement of capital through banks or free movement and students themselves to Great Britain. We'll see what happens. We must also draw up a plan - it is, of course, not your direct object, but the Ministry of Education - and along with a development plan - because private universities may also come to Greece - to see whether and whether we should take advantage of education. Greece is also a country that has a very good time, although it is raining - it is raining because I am talking about Great Britain - which we can exploit, and the eight months of the season we have almost sunshine so that we have a very attractive educational product. After all, we all know that we have the best teachers in the world. This is one way to bring the Brain Drain back, bring the worthy teachers back, teach the worthy children of the Greeks and the whole world in Greece, in cooperation with the British universities. Continuing a little on the issue of Brexit and the referendum, let me say that we have not taken a position as Independent Greeks, respecting a people's decision. In the morning, in my appearance, I spoke about this issue. But now I also take the opportunity in this House to convene and judge Mr Schultz's statements negatively, who said that a crowd, a 'crowd', should not decide for Europe. I will blame Mrs Bakoyannis for her statement that referendums are dangerous. Finally, I will also lie to the new leader of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, who wondered whether a majority of citizens could be asked, in a referendum, to define a country's political future. These are very nice philosophical questions. However, I think that all these questions do not have a audience, or at least all those who put them, they should certainly tell us what their audience is, because they are certainly not British citizens. British citizens are not even involved with us. When we say that they are extremes, they are poor, xenophobic, luben voters, unorthodox, to whom are we talking? So, what position does someone take to criticise a people who vote for anything? Last year there was huge criticism of us for the referendum, they were all in Europe and we didn't like it. Neither those who supported 'yes' liked the position of Europeans, nor those who supported 'no' liked the support of Europeans. We have no place at the moment to criticise anyone, but no one, as a result of any referendum. The referendum is a democratic process. His result must be respected for one vote. And for one vote. And that's the end of the conversation. We all manage the next day in Europe together. And I hope that Europe will learn lessons, because whatever development laws we have to vote on here, either in Frankfurt or in Lisbon or in Italy, it does not stop economic data being specific. Today they announced - and a non paper came to me this morning - the Italian banks are looking for $40 billion for recapitalisation. Last Friday, $2.8 trillion on the world stock exchanges were lost. The chapter, the Communist Party of Greece would say. Yeah. I'll give you a parentheses. Some criticised those who voted out, Brexit. One of them was the Communist Party of Great Britain, you know, which was in favor of Brexit. They also told you right-wing Greek friends here in Britain. They are the paradoxes of politics. So they lost 2.8 trillion on Friday. A sign: The world's four hundred richest people on Friday afternoon's "BLOOMBERG" board lost $124 billion in shares, directly and indirectly, through companies, hedge funds or whatever they had, because they are all registered. Too much money has been lost. They were lost by those who have too much money. They didn't get lost by the poor. That has to tell us something. And when we take a position and criticise a people's decision, we should be careful not to identify ourselves with the one who loses a lot, because someone will say: 'Who do you support? The elite? So you take the place of someone who loses hundreds of billions?" We should be very careful. Mr President, I'm gonna need a few minutes for our bill. I won't be long. It is about adapting the two directives to Greek legislation, as we have said. In this draft law of the Ministry of Economy, micro-enterprises are exempted from the obligation to draw up a management report, since they include some key information on their corporate social responsibility in their balance sheet and, on the contrary, the status of very large, in the context of increasing transparency and financial information. Micro-enterprises, with assets of up to EUR 350,000 or EUR 700,000 and 10 employees, are exempt from the obligation to draw up the report, if they include some basic information in the notes to their balance sheet. This is Article 1(4). I am, for example, reading some parts which I consider to be quite important, because I have been covered by all the previous speakers. Listed companies will be obliged to include in the management report and corporate governance statement, while companies of public interest - which are the parent companies of a large group with more than five hundred staff - should be obliged to include in the management report and a non-financial situation, which contains information on the impact of the group's activities on environmental, labour, social issues, such as the fight against corruption and others. Furthermore, under the current regime the corporate governance declaration was a mandatory content of the management report. It is now possible to draw up a separate document, which is posted on the company’s website. This is Article 2(2). Here comes a question - it is a little philosophical - as to whether and whether GEMH serves or should change. At some point we may have to look at the whole GFCM procedure, because it has too many difficulties. With the little experience I have - and you will forgive me, because I may also make a mistake - in the Greek data, as much as I have studied it from companies that are active and have informed me, we are trying to correct something, which has probably not been properly constructed since the beginning. So we will not build it properly or so to meet the needs of the future. Probably we should review the whole system of GEMH, take off the target and build on the target and the service that we will hand over to the citizens. In addition, several colleagues are quite right in relation to the difficulty of finding data, updating data and much more. It's a tool. If, therefore, the aim of the tool is to serve the specific purpose of transparency and publicity of timeliness, it should do this rather than something different. In addition, the same draft law seeks to rationalise administrative and financial levels the services of the Permanent Representation to the OECD and the Office of the Economic Adviser in Geneva. These are Articles 9 to 11. There are provisions regarding both the positions and qualifications of the Permanent Greek Representation in the OECD. This must be completed taking into account the actual needs of these services and the improvement of their operating framework. The main differences in relation to the previous relevant framework shall be identified in Articles 9 to 13. First, the posts of the officials are reduced. Secondly, the arbitrary yield of grades is abolished. Thirdly, there is a precise definition of the formal and substantive qualifications required. Fourthly, the secondment framework is defined in time. Fifth, the delivery and receipt of the service by the heads are identified for the first time. Sixth, a reduction in the costs of building a permanent representative shall be made for the first time to the OECD. As far as business parks are concerned, I think the issue has been exhausted. With regard to the licenses of technical professions, the extension of the planned deadline at an explicit date - which will be common to all professional technical activities - on 31 December 2016, is to cover as far as possible the need for a typically functioning market of technical professional activities by including as many professionals as possible in the provisions of the new institutional framework. This will cover the generalised demand for a large number of technical professions, which have not completed the process of replacing old licences with new ones. So this is a substantial help to be provided by the government, which thinks about all the lengths and backs of the market. As far as the bakery is concerned, we have talked about it. As far as casinos and revenues are concerned, it is reasonable that their revenues should be made available for the EOT and for advertising purposes. I close, repeating that the Independent Greeks are very careful of our statements in relation to Brexit and the next day. We are all here together, and we must all be together, if you want, when there are ideas and suggestions on what we are going to do in the economy in relation to the management of the country's development with the new data from Britain's exit, which I am passing away did not trigger Article 50. It is her right not to activate it, as is her democratic right to activate it whenever she wants. That's what the law says. So perhaps by October we have a period of instability and uncertainty, because from what I read, they are waiting for the election of a new Prime Minister. If that is the case, Greece should be vigilant in economics, markets, banks, as well as in labour. We must also all take care of our statements and support the Greek economy, because we must be under the radar and not go over the radar. Let us all deal with the Great Britain, and let us deal with our home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u24	Mr President, we have two other amendments since the debate we had.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u25	Look, the problem of the amendments seems to me to have to be solved over time, because this is indeed the case at every meeting. It is not possible, in other words, at this meeting. Many of the amendments of the Ministers are being tabled at the last minute. It is now an opportunity, with the change in the Rules of Procedure, to settle this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u26	Mr President, this morning we were discussing changing part of the Rules of Procedure, which, of course, concerns services in this House. On this occasion we generalised and referred to the question of parliamentary-Government relations, that is what the government is doing about it. Take a look at that, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u27	Of course, what you're saying we'll see. But I'm telling you, it's a question of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u28	We made an intervention at six o'clock and said to stop this, because we will resort to not voting for anything, even proper amendments, because it is by way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure and the procedure that ensures that we understand what is happening and what we are voting on. We said we shouldn't make it a battlefield here. Of course we are ignored, and the government is tabling two more. Look at it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u29	We will discuss this at the Conference of Presidents, because it is essentially a matter of rules. I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u30	Tomorrow we have a conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u31	Please, Mr Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u32	Thank you very much. Good evening, everyone. From what I've heard out, it's pouring hail and raining. There are amendments in here. And it is truly admirably tragic how this government legislates. That way looks like a fight. In the window we show Europeans and in the background we hide skeletons. To be more specific, I would like to say: the main body of the bill is the harmonization of our country with Community law. So it links us more with our European partners and international legislative standards. That's all right, that's all. But we also have these notorious last-minute amendments. The amendments you have tabled in this draft law seek exactly the opposite, that is to say, the giganticisation of state-of-the-art, opacity and your clientele. It is reasonable and in line with the needs of entrepreneurship, for example, to exempt micro-enterprises from the obligation to publish a management report. And I refer to Article 4. The exception for entities of public interest is a good one. We always emphasise that the private sector should be facilitated in bureaucratic matters. Furthermore, the provision of a change in the date of convergence of the annual general meeting for all S.A., EIA and IKE for the use that ended on 31-12-2015 was equally necessary. We all know that there has been a great deal of delay in the start of implementation of the 'TAXIS' for the submission of tax declarations by legal persons, which is, of course, a government responsibility. It is not the first time, after all, that ‘TAXIS’ is delaying operating within the planned time margins, creating terrible market problems. What we do not know, however, is whether it is permanent or temporary changes. Also, in the second chapter of the bill, we see new special services being established. It concerns the responsibilities of the General Secretariat for Public Investment and the NSRF. The Central Association is against meaningless expansion of state services, especially when our budgets have been derailed long ago. We believe that the existing development structure for investment projects was sufficient to meet the needs of investment infrastructure and also of the NSRF. However, we do not see it negative. What is lacking from the public, ladies and gentlemen, is the organisation and rationalisation of existing structures. There is no other service or secretariat. At the moment we have to look for how to shorten the state and not how to raise it. Our big and inefficient state has reached our point of view at the moment. The substance of the current bill, however, as I have said at first, is not so much in his main body, but in the amendments tabled by the government. The truth is that you have become accustomed to this practice, and even a few minutes ago you tabled two new amendments. In unsuspecting bills, you put forward signalling amendments that might certainly also constitute whole drafts of law. What is the purpose of this tactic? Enlarge the state, of course, to broaden your customer relations with as little publicity as possible, that is, what the world says 'in the zuca'. Hope that the benefit of these provisions will take your place politically, so that you remain in power longer. Forty years and the same. I'm going to stand on the most important points. With your amendment number 500/27 of 21-6-2016 you are recruiting the public with individual contracts for those who work as private security and cleanliness employees for the needs of the Ministry of Labour. Please indicate that you are recruiting natural persons who have been employed in the cleaning or storage of bodies of the Ministry of Labour, on the basis of any legal relationship or contract concluded either directly with those bodies or with third persons or legal persons entrusted with the provision of cleaning or storage services of the agencies of the Ministry of Labour. This, as you admit, is the case by way of derogation from any existing legislation, which might also prevent your action. These natural persons, whose number is completely unknown to us, are now employed in the public by individual contracts. They become employees and are paid as a newly recruited civil servant, including employers' contributions. In other words, the state budget is charged directly. Why are you doing this? Why, in other words, do you hire private civil servants who were working for the public by the method of external cooperation, which is the well-known outsourcing method? We read your explanatory statement. Your first excuse is that their recruitment will cost less to the public than to entrust external companies with the work. Your second excuse is that these officials were low-paid, so your social sensitivity requires that they be recruited to the public. So I ask you: How do you know that these recruitments are in the public interest? You're not filing us with any evidence. In the report by the General Accounting Office of the State, which you are obliged to include in the amendment, you are referring to general costs which will be borne by the State budget. There is not one single mention of the exact cost of these recruitments, nor is there any reference to the total cost of existing contracts with private storage and cleaning bodies. So tell us how you state with such confidence that it will cost the taxpayer less. I have tabled a timely question to the Minister and I look forward to his reply. I would also like to ask for your relevant question on the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above question, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You've obviously read some crystal ball or created a dictionary of divining art, because it doesn't explain how you document these new intakes. And we wonder if you have such respect for public money. If it were your own business, before making any recruitment, wouldn't you consider how to pay the new employees? Here, you know you're not paying them, obviously, out of your pocket. We are taking credit to close the debt hole, which is constantly growing and, unfortunately, you are plundering the public funds. But if it were your pocket, you'd care and consider it with evidence and numbers. With other people's money, however, you're generous. Well done, you've got a big heart! And we see that this great heart and this generosity with the taxpayer's money also appears in Amendment 499/26. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] We read the article entitled 'Research Arrangements'. There the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology is now free to finance operational expenses incurred by research centres and technological bodies. Three arrows at the end of the amendment are enough for the government to do the work it wants. Of course we do not see the amount you want to give, and we do not know which research bodies are the ones you want to finance. That's a white check. I asked the committee to present us with a list of the research bodies that want us to finance their expenses. We never got it. There are European programmes, there is the private sector that wants to fund research efforts, there is even the PPE who has given close to 1 billion over the last fifteen years to finance research according to its balance sheets. You tell us that they do not reach you and you put your hand in the state budget directly, without even telling us the amount you want to give or the bodies you want to finance. However, in order not to be unfair, on the first page of the Special Report, on page 19, there is expressly a benefit for the Head of Department at the Lifelong Learning Department, on page 3,700 euros. We are also invited to vote on this provocative amount, while some of our fellow citizens are eating us out of garbage. You share bonuses here and there, you disperse public money to natural persons, institutions and public bodies and you spread to society that it is our fault that foreigners, the bad lenders, who drink our blood. Find merciful victims, blind the few more followers you have left to build a curtain behind which you will share state money as a card war against your loved children. In conclusion, we see one single thing from all of this: Try to shrink the private sector, remove it and transfer it to the state the responsibilities that individuals have had until now. Instead of upgrading the working conditions of the private sector, instead of making substantial development interventions, you directly blame the private initiative and giggling the state, saying that the working conditions in the public sector are better. But you and the previous governments made the public sector a privileged place of work against the private sector. The work against the private sector that we are seeing today has not come about by magic nor is it a natural disaster. If you wanted to improve the private sector, you would have done so already. The private sector, however, does not guarantee you voters and customers, so the freedom of private initiative is difficult to smoke by parties and states. So let's leave the private sector in his fate and take care of our own children, the state machine. You dream of a huge state, an opaque client size that will serve only the friends of each government. Of course, that's not your only concern, because, as I said, forty years ago, this job lasts. This is the cause of today's sepsis and decline. The Centro Union wants to resolve the pathogens of the public sector, reduce the unnecessary functions of the state, flexibility and targeted functioning of the respective state actors. Let the economy finally breathe. Stop cultivating parasites on the backs of minimum productive people who have been left in our country. I will close with a comment on the electoral law that is expected to be tabled and that is the main issue of news with Brexit. I shall briefly mention some of the figures from the PUBLIC ISSUE survey, which was conducted specifically for the electoral law. We are starting at the general point, namely that 86% of the citizens believe that we are heading in the wrong direction, that is, nine out of ten. 69% to 70% is pessimistic about the economic situation that will follow. 90% is against the current electoral system and 60% are in favour of mere proportionality. Seven out of ten, 71% in particular, want governments of cooperation, when in 1996 this figure was 46%, and in 2006 it was 55%, so you see that the Greek people are growing and want to work together. In short, make the simple analogue and open the way for cooperation, because that is the only way to achieve growth in our country, only that is how investment will come and that is how political stability will come. Of course we will vote in favour of harmonising our country with Community law - I am referring to the first eight articles - but we will vote against the articles and amendments which are purely racist. I am presenting the relevant data from the survey for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u33	Thank you very much to Mr Georgiadis, who completes the cycle of special speakers. I would like to inform you that speakers are very few. Before we move on to the speakers, the two Ministers, Mr Skourletis and Mr Alexiadis have asked for the floor. They'll talk about amendments if I'm not mistaken. The Bureau already has an image of some parliamentary representatives who have asked to speak tomorrow. I would ask those who wish to speak today in order to plan the work, because we have three speakers, two ministers, and possibly Mr Stathakis, who can intervene today. The procedure will therefore be closed very soon. I would therefore ask any of the parliamentary representatives who want to put them here tonight to tell us that. Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor. How much time do you want? Two, five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u34	One-and-a-half minutes, Mr President. Thank you. I will talk about the amendment under the general number 523 and a special 45, which concerns the extension of the status of energy inspectors by one month. You're going to tell me: Why for a month? It expires at the end of June and we extend it for a month exactly because we have already completed a new approach to the issue of energy inspectors, which will be submitted to a bill by the Ministry of Energy and Environment in the next few days, but you realise that no gap could arise in relation to the energy inspectors, since their work is directly involved in issues of energy certificates and at the same time they are used in real estate transfers, renting buildings, etc. So it was considered appropriate to give this month. We would of course like to inform you that, in the next few days, a completely new overall approach will be presented, which will answer a matter that has been transferred from an extension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u36	I would like to speak about four amendments, Mr President. Some are other Ministers, namely Mr Juliaraki and Mr Tsakalotou, but because they could not come, I will speak about them. The first is the 524/46 amendment that is relevant to the possibility of providing information from the Ministry of Finance to authorised staff of HICP, e-Government of Social Security, the Chief Inspector of Public Administration and the officials of the College of Inspectors - Public Administration Auditors and other audit bodies, carrying out audits of statements of property. That is one amendment. The second is 518/40, which contains four articles. The first article regulates the assessment of GDR staff, because no evaluation has been carried out in the last four years. The second article of the amendment deals with the extension of the deadline for the construction of the stores on the Koumoundourou coast. The third article solves the issues of transferring the company "PARATCHIOS S.A." to EBRD, such as tax exemptions, settlement of ownership assets, because they belonged to "ELLENIKI S.A.", such as item PF, which mentions, for example, tax issues, amortisation issues that applied to the previous company and should also apply to EBRD and exemption from direct and indirect taxes. Finally, Article 4 is important for tourist businesses, because it allows until 31/12-2016, for businesses that are between them and the Aegean islands and there have been various problems, to hire this public estate, with an application they have to make within two months of the publication of the law. That is what this amendment is about. Amendment No 519/41 provides for an extension of the time limit for services involved in the registration of public property to record public property by 18 months, until 31/12/2017, the time limit for deleting the preliminary hay-line by 12 months, the deadline for the obligation to check the rest of the preliminary limit and for imposing a proposal on the final limit in cases of apparent incorrect preliminary and by 12 months the time limit within which a decision may be taken on the final line of saithe by the Committee for the establishment of a saithe. They are deadlines for the safe safeguarding of public property. Finally, the deadline for the Ministry of Education - Amendment 520/42- - solves the problem of teachers who had been retired to another degree by teachers by 31-12-2015. They're about six hundred people. On 1-1-2016, they would get 135 euros less. If this were to be solved in June, it would be unpaid in June. So we expect a joint ministerial decision to be made by finance ministers and other ministers to settle the question of return, that is to say, so that people will not be paid in June. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Stathakis, will you ask the floor for any legislative improvements or all the material?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u38	I'll make my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u39	As you wish, there is no question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u40	How many Members are there to talk? If there are few, let the Minister speak and close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u41	Accepted proposal. There are three Members to speak. To give the floor to Members and then to the Minister. Mr. Harakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating in principle the draft law of the Ministry of Development on the transposition of Community directives. But if there is a principle governing the way that this government is legislating, it is only the late amendments, such as that of the Ministry of Education, which was incorporated into the draft law which was not related to education. As for parliamentary control, he is downgraded by the reluctance of ministers to come to the House to answer Members' questions. Unfortunately, many ministers now consider parliamentary control, topical questions, parable, and following the legislative acts and the usual urgency procedures to vote on the bills, there is no draft law without late ministerial amendments. With such delayed ministerial amendments, photographic provisions attempt scandalous arrangements, day arrangements, such as the one with Article 41, to determine the Director-General's qualifications in the Sivitanide School. I shall refer specifically to this. However, I would also like, Mr President, from this step forward, to curb the way in which the Ministry of Education is legislating, which has led us to withdraw from the so-called 'national dialogue on education'. Today's delayed amendment with pointless regulations is indicative of dubiousness and lack of programming and targeting. Once again, get an extension to the term of office of school advisors. Obviously the extension is necessary, as otherwise on 1 September, there would be no school advisors. The lack of programming in the question of training managers is thus indicated. The justification in the rapporteur's report that there is no institutional framework for the selection of school advisors is a clear lie. There is L.3848/2010, which is still in force for the selection framework of school advisors. SYRIZA is just looking, as a portion of him has a negative view of the institution of school advisors. Perhaps because school advisors are one of those who have been evaluated and SYRIZA is resenting the evaluation. In addition, the depreciation of the institution in terms of government was reflected in L.4354/2015, which provides for a school counsellor's post allowance lower than that of the head of high school. Degradation is not only economic but mainly moral and yet completely unfair. In the rapporteur's report of this bill, the positions of advisors are characterised as neural. How is the reduction of the liability allowance compatible with the neural position, and only for school advisors among all the members of the education? We, ladies and gentlemen, as a New Democracy, believe in dignity and excellence. We support the institution of school advisors, and all we are discussing is the upgrading of the institution. With regard to the reintroduction of the third award of courses for teachers of secondary education, which had been abolished in the New Democracy, it is obviously part of your agonizing effort to save human resources. Your occasional announcements of recruiting twenty - thousands of teachers from next year prove to be air words. Following the statements made by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Pelogrin, on the risk of not opening schools in the new year, all your moves, from the downgrading of full-day schools and the doubling of pupils for the establishment of kindergartens, until the third assignment, serves this goal. Saving staff. I now come to the infamous regulation of Article 41, which has a sense of scandal. In the rapporteur's report, it states that ‘they are making changes to the qualifications of the General Director of the Sivitanide School in order to align themselves with the modern requirements of vocational education in accordance with European standards’. Really, Minister, what European standards do they impose on foreign language knowledge for such a position of responsibility? Because this photographic arrangement does nothing but simply extinguish with balls from the qualifications of the Director-General to have sufficient knowledge of at least one foreign language from those spoken in the European Union, which is claimed by the current legislation. Here, ladies and gentlemen, there is also the secret of the photographic provision. Are you trying to retrospectively legitimize your choices? If not, why the arrangement? Do you take the law on the basis of the Director's measures, the former Minister, Mr Baltas, who you placed as director in the Sivitanideo? So, this is left-wing morals? If our chosen one fails to pass the bar for occupying a post, we simply download the bar of qualifications. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we do not agree either with the regulation, which gives the right to a primary school teacher to become a director in an IEK, that is to say, a post-training structure. Besides, the arrangement runs counter to the previous article, which states that the Director-General at the Sivitanide School, which has PSA and IEK, must be a secondary or higher education teacher. Finally, with regard to the legalisation of the earlier financing decisions by the Secretariat-General for Lifelong Learning and New Generation, the Minister should inform us of what grant decisions are legalised in retrospectively, which NGOs have received this money and on what grounds, otherwise the House will act as a swimming pool of Siloam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Harakopoulos. Mr. Mavrotas from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are deleting the first candle in the capital control cake, which was imposed last day. It seems like it's been a hundred years, and it's cost 100 billion to Mr. Reggling. In the past, however, they have not been forgotten, especially for companies that close at one time to an uncontrolled domino. But we're going to this bill as well. The bill contains a series of arrangements of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism, a bouquet of heterosexual and fragmentary provisions on various issues, where two important directives have been mixed with loose ends of the Ministry of Economy and not just. It also has some positive features, such as the General Secretariat of Industry regulations, which are mostly in a positive direction. Some issues relating to education and research have also been referred to as urgent amendments, which have been incorporated as articles. The Ministry of Education, loyal to tradition, brings to every bill and one amendment. She's the one I'll deal with here. In Article 39, the term of office of school advisors is extended until 28-2-2017. Do we want the school advisors or the new prolongation, or does it hide the mood for a gradual abolition of the institution, as was demonstrated in the Committee on Educational Affairs a few months ago? Will school advisors play a role in the evaluation procedures? This policy prolongs the uncertainty of thousands of people and closes doors to possibly new ones. The Ministry's inability to draw up an integrated system for the selection and placement of school counsellors is also apparent here. It goes from an extension almost a year and a half after the election of SYRIZA - ANEL to power. Let's go back to the third assignment of teachers. It is obvious how it is done to cover gaps in teaching hours and reduce the number of assistants. However, there has been no scientific study before the Institute for Education Policy, and this has not even been done for the second assignment. The bad news is that this change is taking place without a plan and without dialogue with teachers, in the mosquitoes. Repeal of Article 71 of Law No4386/2016 which we have just voted on. Another sign of a bad legacy. We are voting and voting. The Government legislates on the foot and then withdraws the provisions as inapplicable. Therefore, withdraw Article 71 of the Law. 4386/2016, almost a month and a half from his publication in the FEK. As stated in the explanatory statement, this provision cannot be applied. But didn't Mr. Friend know that? Article 41, concerning the definition of qualifications in the Director-General of the University of Public Arts and Professions, was also heard by the previous speaker. The Director-General must be an educator and must at least have at least 10 years of service in public secondary and tertiary education. I'm asking. Why do you only serve in the public sector? So a qualified teacher with pre-service in private education is rejected? Even more so, can one from a private technical university abroad not be chosen as a director-general? How long will education be captive of ideas? It's amazing that everywhere you're on the occasion of expressing this intolerance you've got to anything private. In Article 42, primary school teachers are also added as candidates for IEK, EEK and lifelong learning centres. What for? Are first-grade teachers outgoing and SYRIZA gives another window for secondment to other agencies? Article 43 concerns the arrangements for research. Here we have renames, reprints, extensions, for something we voted on a month ago. Why this curiosity? Someone will go to the FEC of the law on research and we will have changed the contents with new FEC just two months later. No, that the law was tested and changed after a number of years, such as normal, but because you did not legislate well. Let me close, since we are in the field of education and research, with the Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies in Venice. There is no law in this bill, but a bill from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that went up to the consultation. But I will mention it if I wake up to the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, because it is directly concerned with it. The Institute of Venice is a high scientific and research level and a prestigious institution with international recognition. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with the draft law that put up for consultation between the 2-5-2016 to 3-6-2016, attempts to remove the scientific and research character of the Institute and make it a simple cultural center. The question is. Is the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs in agreement with the attempted changes and the exclusion of the Ministry responsible by placing the Venice Institute under the exclusive competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? How is the research and scientific character of the Institute ensured without functional and organic connection to the Ministry of Education and Research? In response to these questions, therefore, we asked a parliamentary question on 8 June. Finally, let me close with some thoughts on the current developments in Europe. We see that, on the right and left of Europe, populism and xenophobia are constantly gaining ground. The English, however, did not vote for Brexit because of the austerity imposed on them by Brussels, as the government says. Unless they had a memorandum too, and I don't know it. They voted for Brexit not to contribute to the European Corban to prevent refugees and migrants from being invaded by populists. Farage, Johnson, Lepenn, Grillo, EFD in Germany are starting to threaten the European structure. As a gangrene, their views are slowly spreading throughout Europe. We must develop antibodies in our country. The conditions created by the recent Brexit are a threat to us, but also an opportunity. It is an opportunity, as long as the government stops misinterpreting messages from outside, adapting them to its own account. It is an opportunity, if we show a responsible, trustworthy person who understands that the game in Europe is not played with fake puffs and puffs. The game in Europe needs a responsible attitude, credibility and alliances. Europe can only be changed if you are part of it and not throwing stones out of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. Ms. Megalo-Economics from the Centro Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to point out that it is a non-parliamentary bill that seeks to adapt our country to European legislation, that you have loaded it with so many amendments, which have nothing to do with the issues relating to this bill. On the contrary, we all observe an agonizing effort to structure a client state in your measures. A climax is - he referred to his location and the special speaker of the Association of Centres, Mr. Marios Georgiadis - the recruitment of private cleansing and storage officials of the Ministry of Labour. On this issue, I am thinking about the selection criteria among more candidates for the conclusion of these contracts in view of the fact that the candidates will probably be multiple in relation to the proposed contracts. In particular, since there is no limitation on the time available in the past during which they provided their services indirectly or directly or as regards the duration of the provision of those services. No specific guidance shall be given to address these issues, in particular with regard to the selection criteria. I take the floor because I would like to address a number of issues relating to education as the head of my party and as a member of the Standing Committee on Morphic Affairs, as well as to various tourism issues as an entrepreneur for tourism. Initially with a general position, I would like to point out that the major issues of tourism are solved with a design of at least twenty years with dialogue and not with last-minute amendments. They can't be solved like this. With regard to the amendment on education, I will remind you that we have just adopted a detailed draft law on education and research, and today we have another amendment with a provision on research. All of course, what do they show us? An absolute scepticalness of the government's work and Parliament's total disdain. So this amendment provides for the possibility of a third assignment to our teachers. I ask you: What does that mean? For example, an English professor teaches today, apart from his lesson, namely English, and History when there is a relative gap. He will now be able to teach - unknown which further philosophical lesson - perhaps Exhibition, perhaps Ancient Greek. Admir what the Ministry of Education does! This amendment creates a great deal of concern because, however good the teachers have, basic and essential lessons should not be taught by other specialists. In fact, the greatest shortages in schools are philosophers, mathematicians, physicists and chemists. So, in fact, the amendment of the Ministry of Education is only made to cover vacant posts with fewer alternates and ultimately with less costs for the government. I'd like to ask something else. What is the result, ladies and gentlemen? I'll give you the answer. It is nothing but a deterioration in education with solutions to essential and serious problems. With regard to tourism, Article 31 and paragraph 4, states that the special attachment of the legal service of each room, a tourist accommodation for the tourist businesses, is to be abolished. I do not know what purposes this measure can serve and what the Minister expects. And I am not just talking about the possibility of the public losing revenue from companies that do not comply, as long as this is how we close the eye to illegality. Our tourism is affected by various forms of tourism. Of course, I am referring to the pan-European issue of renting homes by private tourists. As a state we must preserve our tourism product and we must find methods to legislate to set limits on the new habits created in the tourism industry. I would point out to you, as a businessman, that the good name is built in ten years, while it is destroyed in one day. We must not let anyone operate without rules on the altar of temporary profits and lose definitive profits from tourism in the years to come. With regard to Article 37, which refers to the amounts to be made available from the revenues of Parnitha Casino and Corfu to the EOT for promotion and operational costs, it should be clarified exactly how much it will be allocated for the projection and how much it will be spent on operational costs. Indeed, because in the past and very recently much has been heard about the advertising costs of public enterprises and organisations, I think it is right that the House should know exactly what is going on, but that the ceiling should also be set at the appropriate level for the presentation of the Agency. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are today faced with another bill with numerous amendments which come in the form of a storm, as happened a little earlier, of different content and purpose, and therefore of another cumbersome creation of the government that we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u47	Thank you for the list of speakers. We will give the floor to Mr Stathakis, the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism. Mr Dendias, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, will be followed and we will close the meeting with the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mrs Kafantaris. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I think that the law we are bringing to the vote includes, on the one hand, a number of Community directives relating primarily to the reduction of the administrative burden of enterprises, and, on the other hand, unlike the part of the Anti-Population, it sets out a number of regulations in all areas relating to the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism, integrated into a single draft law, precisely in order to comply with the basic parliamentary principle of incorporation of various individual issues which require legislation within a single regulatory framework from a particular ministry. In fact, an important part of these arrangements relates to individual areas, each of which would not justify a separate bill for obvious and self-evident reasons. A large part of the criticism about the nature of the various arrangements is therefore unjustified by the way in which the Ministry is attempting to legislate. Let me remind you now of two issues for the directive. Obviously, this law concerns increasing transparency and reducing administrative burdens on companies, improving the functioning of the ministry's services, and it obviously results in a system that has specific results for all companies, I am referring to the AUs, the AUs, the IKIs and the personal companies, which facilitates and relieves significantly, reduces their administrative burdens - there is also the imprint for how it improves and improves the financial impact - and improves the transparency of these businesses. For the rest of the arrangements, let me begin by speaking to the OECD Anglo-American Anglo-American Anglo-American Anglo-American Anglo-American. As far as the government is concerned, that is to say, that the government is seeking to increase the public service, that it reduces transparency or wants to create - I do not remember Mr Mitsarakis' criticism - influence on the state institutions, precisely the opposite is true of the OECD' s example. Here is an institution which, firstly, had no rules of the duration of the country's representatives in this institution, secondly, had no rules of choice for the staff and, thirdly, had a specific activity, which created differences between it and other acceptable practices that we have in other ACEs. What is the government actually doing with this piece of legislation? The principles and rules in force in Brussels's AACC, which is the most important AACC that we have in the European Union, the same rules we are transposing and highlighting to the OECD AACC. We are introducing, firstly, that the officials who go there have a three-year term plus two. Secondly, it is foreseen that returning will offer their services to the area from which they come, precisely to transfer the experience and enrich and upgrade the operation in Greece. Thirdly, it is foreseen that a number of committees are directly involved by Greek officials from the Greek public administration. Fourthly, we are reducing the number from seven to five and reducing the costs for certain categories of expenditure. Therefore, contrary to what we call counter-population, on the issue of OECD ABS, we are making an important modernisation, which creates a much more transparent, much more operational, much more valuable framework, precisely because the choices made and the employees who will go there must follow a specific evaluation process. The second section concerns the clearance of the Export Promotion Agency. There has been an important correction. As you know, the role of the general assembly has been transferred to the Minister. This is unconstitutional and with the proposed regulation we bring it back to the general assembly. With the arrangements for the Export Credit Agency we are actually giving the possibility under conditions in which we are not hiring - and I stress this and we do not use organisations to recruit, precisely the opposite - that is to say, that there should be movements and transfers of permanent or private officials of an indefinite amount of time in the public sector to this body, so that it can expand the staff at their disposal and be able to perform its role better, which I would remind you will be upgraded. On the issues of the ESRB, a little misleading was also criticised, precisely because the system with which we are implementing this ESRB period has fewer management authorities than ever before, intermediate bodies and implementing bodies. Our policy on the management authorities has strictly maintained the rule of being at the level of ministries or substitutes. There is no other level at which these authorities can be predicted. There is a clear simplification in the matter of intermediate bodies too. We therefore maintain the fundamental nature of the whole system being effective in the Ministry of Economy and at the same time the intermediaries and the managing authorities to keep it to the minimum extent possible, in order to have good results in implementation. I am not going to stand by it, Mrs Jackson has been analyzing it for a long time, and it has been accepted by the large majority of Parliament that I understand it. Tourism issues have also been discussed in detail by Mrs Koudoura, which will be mentioned in these provisions tomorrow morning. Interventions are known to simplify the licensing conditions primarily for tourist agencies and some topics relating to young professionals in tourism. The issues of the Secretariat-General for Trade and Consumer Protection have also been accepted as improvements in issues and in areas where there were loose ends. I therefore believe that these too have been positively responded. Let me say a word about legislative improvements. They are all literal and - I shall read one which is representative - the indent of Article 4 (2) of the draft, Article 43b of the Treaty. 2190/1920. The phrase 'if the unlimitedly accountable partner is a capital company' - which is quite clear, I repeat, refers to an earlier legislation - is replaced by the following: 'when all direct or indirect partners have limited responsibility because they are legal persons in the form of the limited company, the limited company, the company, the company or the private company'. It is a very improved clarification of who is the subject of this law. I'm making the legislative improvements to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u49	I would ask that they be distributed to my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u50	Let me turn to Article 28 and I will go back to the amendments. Article 28, as you know, was an article, which remained inapplicable. It is inapplicable because it abolishes the status of the public limited liability company. There was then a dialogue with Mr Dendia and we said that this article at the first opportunity would be withdrawn and that is what we are doing today. There was an extensive criticism here on the part of the Communist Party of Greece, but I would like to remind you that the shareholders are in the nature of these companies. Shareholders of an anonymous company cannot be held liable beyond capital, which they have placed in this company and cannot have their personal property as... That is the nature of the company itself. However, the respective legislation also applies to all other companies, which also cover small and medium-sized enterprises, of course, as well as public limited companies, which are the EIAs and many other categories of companies, provided for in the law. It was, therefore, a correction in my view necessary, since this law was inappropriate. If it were applied, it would have hit basic legal problems. Let me turn to the four amendments I tabled, which - all four - concern matters of the Ministry. The first amendment, the first one. 516/38 is about two things. The first concerns the world trade. Let me remind you here that those who have a traveller's license, which is a different category from those who are licensed on the planet, are living the characteristic example: in a football game there are people who offer all this outside the court and who, according to the law, cannot stand, only when they give one souvlaki. Then he'll have to start and keep going around the field. This regulation gives them two hours, in order to stand by, to offer the service to the particular emergency event and to continue from there and beyond. The second streamlining process we are doing in this particular market, to the world's sellers, is about the spatial strength of their licenses. As you know, there is a paradoxical system, where it is possible, within the limits of one municipality, that some are licensed by one municipality, some by another municipality. There is a paranoid system as to where this planet's license applies. For reasons of equal treatment and equal treatment, we establish the self-evident nature, the territorial validity of all licences is identical to the limits of the region to which the issuing authority belongs geographically. Therefore, anyone issuing a licence under a region is entitled to the entire region. That's all about the world trade. The second article concerns 'ENTERPRISE GREECE'. This is where the debts of the Greek Foreign Trade Organisation are being liquidated. The first article of the amendment says that the requirements of the EIA are not being transposed to the ENTERPRISE GREECE and also that enforcement measures in the OPE cannot be taken prior to liquidation, which means, in practice, that no one will be able to make an enforceable execution in advance at the expense of the OPE before the liquidation process is completed. The second amendment is 517/39. Here we have three extensions to the well-known subject of public procurement. The law is ready, as you know, and it will come to Parliament within the month. Instead of giving a new extension, we are proposing the abolition of the second annex to Law 4281/2014, which is not, in any case, applicable or applicable, since the current regime precedes this law. It's not applicable right now. We therefore propose the abolition of the second part, rather than giving a new extension to this time-consuming period, which has no content. It is therefore an amendment, which in essence has no impact. The new law will replace the provisions by which the entire public procurement system operates so far. The third amendment concerns the ESDP. Specifically, it's 521/43. Its most important provisions are two. The first legislative authorisation shall be granted for the issue of OSH to the Ministers for Economic Affairs and Finance, which will regulate travel issues for the technical assistance operations of the NSR, the EEA and the ICM. The second is facilitated by the smooth management of partitioned phasing projects by the Special Digital Convergence Service. It is two more: The first gives the possibility of a larger, better KHS management of travel issues. That's for the checks. The second facilitates the well-known program of the Digital Convergence. The fourth and last amendment concerns the environmental licenses of the tourism sector. I would remind you here that two years have been extended for tourist businesses, hotels and camping, which have submitted their environmental study and the Ministry for reasons of its own, has not completed the environmental study evaluation process. So far, then, we have all of the tourist sectors, hotels and camping, which have received two years of extension. They may have a signal and may function if they have submitted the environmental study. There is a category of companies, which was partly justified, that is to say it was not for the oldest laws to carry out an environmental study, partly unjustified, from a point on which they would have to carry out an environmental study, they have not so far applied for an environmental study. They have not submitted an environmental study to the Ministry. For this particular category, and in order not to lose their mark immediately, but to be treated equally with other companies, we give them a four-month deadline, to carry out an environmental study, to submit it, in order to benefit from the two-year extension. If they do not submit the environmental study within four months, to join the 'free' arrangement for the two-year extension of their mark, they will lose the signal. This is Amendment 522/44, and it concerns - I repeat - a small category, which has indeed been problematic at this transitional stage. I would like to say one last word about the parliamentary amendments. There is no agreement, except for the Dimitriadis amendment, Iglezi, Santorini, on the authorisation and special maternity protection for working mothers - employees of ENTERPRISE GREECE. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before giving the floor to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, let me make a statement. The Ministers of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity submitted a draft law on 28 June 2016: ‘To ratify the draft law of 24 June 2016 amending and codifying it in a single text of the Concession Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the Piraeus Port Authority and other provisions’. This draft law has been classified as urgent and is referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr Denkias, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I think it is appropriate that we always treat the national delegation with the wider picture before entering into the specific legislation on the agenda. Today, the Hellenic Republic, the Greek society, celebrates the anniversary of the imposition of capital controls, which is a good thing not to forget. I would suggest not only that we do not forget it, but that we even appreciate what it means to the Greek citizen, if you like, to the Greek unemployed this date and that this imposition of capital controls has made a contribution to this society. Because we know very well that the first result was a reduction in the deposit base by more than EUR 120 billion. Of course, we know very well that in the first phase, the government had tried to renounce politics and any other responsibility for this. You remember, ladies and gentlemen, at that time both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister tried to make the imposition of capital controls, i.e. the closure of the banks, as the initiative and action of the European Central Bank. It has taken time for the languages to be solved and to listen to Mr Varoufakis on a broadcast at the SKAI broadcasting station, in a related interview, about to boast about closing the banks. You'll tell me, Mr. Varoufakis was out of government now and he might want to incriminate the government. And the much more valid lips of the current President of the Parliament also confirmed that this act was a government act. I do not think it honours the government that, first, it has not come to make a fundamental reference to the National Representation about what the Greek society has suffered this year and also what the timetable for returning to normality is. For I remember then, Minister, too many statements by government officials for six months, about eight months. I remember the current President of the National Bank for the first half of 2016. I think it's over in two days. I don't think you'll be able to remove capital controls. It also does not honour the government - and I give it to the government rather than to the President of this House - that, although the Qualification has been tabling a proposal for a debate in plenary on a committee of inquiry on all of this, this proposal has not even come for debate. While, on the other hand, a government proposal, which has to do with the operation of a committee of inquiry on the loans of the parties, is already in operation and with the votes our own, of the Officerial Response. For we, regardless of any errors, divorced from the truth never got, as the SYRIZA government has always done and continued. We are now coming to the current piece of legislation. Mr Minister, as usual, you - and it seemed from the tone of your voice, if you allow me to interpret you - too proud of this bill you are not. First of all, you're not proud of his legal structure. Heavy words have been heard about such legislation in this Chamber. ‘Kourel’ is one of them. Of course, I understand that at a certain point in time, every government needs to introduce various small provisions, which resolve many outstanding issues. This can be one, twice a year, the exception to the normal legislative work of a government and a government majority. Here, that is now the absolute rule. There is no legislation in the last one and a half years, which has a beginning, middle and end, to be able to understand why it has come in this form or to retain a summary of the legislation. Stones, bricks, horns sprinkled in legislation that come and are voted by a government majority, without there being any - I am allowed to express - Parliament for the introduction of these legislation. Usually, too, apart from incredible imperfections and arbitrary practices, what is now an essential element of the SYRIZA - ANEL government's legislative policy. What's that? The ultimate rosphetti. Above all, above all, the rushphetti, the wrestling of the superiors, with the most miserable and obscene and provocative many times for the National Representation language. I sincerely amazed the Members of the government. How do they sign up for these things? I often ask the ministers who tolerate other ministers in their own basic legislation to introduce such provisions and thus accept the moral responsibility of those ministers, who are unacceptable, completely unacceptable. In fact, it would be unacceptable for periods not for periods when the Greek people and the Greek society are narrowing and turning towards the political system, for example, not to say hope of exiting the crisis. This government, which was elected in the name of morality and even in the name of some moral metaphysics, known as the left-wing morality - as if the morality had an ideological sign and had another morality for the Right, another moral for the Left and another for the Centre - is, therefore, in the name of this particular form of morality on the Left, on which this government has been seated and elected, it brings provisions such as the provisions which coexist in this piece of legislation, to which the diligent rapporteur of the Officerial Vice-President, Mr Metarakis and Mr Charakopoulos referred just now. You will tell me that it is too much, but how would you characterize the provision of Article 41, if that is too much? It's the provision that suits someone as the head of an educational institution. We don't have to tell the foundation or the man or the minister. It doesn't mean terming people. It is important to call governments, parties, government majorities and behaviours. Now tell me something, ladies and gentlemen: How can we characterise the fact that, when we want, a director of our office or a known or party friend or any Greek citizen to appoint him in a position and if he does not fit in, we are cutting out the qualifications of the post? And we put this to the vote by three hundred Greek MPs, and we consider it right, legitimate and moral, because it took the vote by a majority of five and fifty-three MPs. Then we go out and tell the Greek society that it has to withstand, it must try, it must have hope, it must have faith, it must accept that its leadership is fighting for the best, it must believe that the country has a better future, it must believe that Greece can be at the hard core of this tested Europe, because it has something to offer to cultural European awareness. Is that what Greece has to offer to European culture? To understand, do we have to pass on provisions with which we take the positions in the name of the candidates, which we have chosen and devoted to a whole provision of law completely photographic? It's obvious that it's absolutely photographic. It's the ultimate proof of the photo. He could have been attached to the candidate's picture in, voted for him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u53	You're not allowed, you're not allowed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u54	Is it possible for these things to be tolerated and tolerated? And you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, why do you vote for these things? Why do you accept, your dignity to be trampled? Against what, what consideration? I believe that you have entered here in good intentions and opted for it, even with some naive promises, to serve the Greek society and the Greek people. You alone in front of your mirror tomorrow morning for this provision, what excuse will you give? What obedience, in which party, does the oath give you the right to vote on this provision? In order for us to be somewhat informed here, you have denounced the ruse of the previous sinful governments of forty years, in which, of course, many of your officials were involved - in those sinful governments of forty years. Some were Ministers too. Too many of them were MPs. They were also stalkers. This does not now prevent them from passing on the other side and denounce their previous sinful self. But would they also bring such provisions here? You'll tell me it's a provision. It's not just a layout. This is simply the most extreme and most totally unacceptable, and I sincerely hope that the Minister will withdraw it. Do not bring it for vote tomorrow at noon, as is the provision of Article 44, which is unlikely to be worded as follows: 'Enterprise by way of derogation from any other general or specific provision'. So there's a minister here, and what does he say? It says: I want to hire staff to clean up the Ministry, the spaces, etc. How do I want to hire them? I would like to recruit them by way of derogation from any other general and special provisions. Do you know what that's called? 'As I like.' He asks you to vote for a minister to hire anyone he wants, as he likes. At the time when the country has 25% unemployed and has 50% unemployment in young people, this is the example we give it. This example is given by SYRIZA - ANEL government: “I will hire anyone I want, as I like. That's what I want. I have the government majority. I'm going through what I want. This is how I want and challenge the opposition and the Greek society, and I don't care about it, because I want it that way. That's the new morality. On this new morality, we are called upon to go, to sit and to vote. Of course, there is the reaction of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. So much for sticking to it. Because what I say to you in words of the market is in the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. It is quite clear, and I must say very briefly. It says that the provision in question authorizing the regulation of specific topics does not provide specific guidance on these matters and in particular on the selection criteria. Sure. Why would he provide - it clarifies correctly - and selection criteria? If we were to make selection criteria, how would we do what we like? How would we hire our friends, our friends? They are not honoured by any governmental majority. If anything had to be learned from this crisis, it is to leave the sinful past of all parties, if you will, of all governments behind. Not to see it recurring and increasing and also provokingly formulated against a society which - I say it again - thirsty for an example. Minister, you were placed before the abolition of the n. 4281/2014, which, if I remember correctly, I proposed for the single law on public procurement. I have to tell you that I am surprised by your choice to abolish the law. Why am I saying it? Indeed, you must ratify three directives and, indeed, you must bring in a new law. But what are you doing now? Repeat with this option, in fact, in force all the special procurement regulations, which, in thirty days, as you say, you must retire them. This involves a legal complexity. I accept your intentions. I have no reason to think you're doing it out of the wicked. I want to be honest. But if I were you, I wouldn't do it like that. I would go to the logic of a further thirty-day power suspension - something like that Mr Skourletis did before and you saw that we did not react - until you, as you must bring quickly - do not tell you that you have been late as a government - the new legislation. The lack of uniform public procurement law, ladies and gentlemen, is a matter for the country. It's a big deal for the country. It's about the economy. It's a matter of morality too. It is also a question of efficiency. I show you here that there are sixty-eight - sixty special regulations. The Greek State cannot be provided in this way, with whatever rules it wants. This must be speeded up and done. And we sincerely tell you that, to the extent that it takes weight in the Civic Opposition, we will help in this and come quickly and be ratified. I have to say that the abolition of the provision of No.4321/2015 with Article 28 finds us absolutely in agreement. He was kind enough to remember it. And then we said that this provision would not work. We must understand the logic of limited liability in trade. We must do this not to favour some, but for a simple reason: what does Greece need? Greece needs investment. It takes people who will make money from where they have it, hidden in the chest, or people from abroad, who will come here to put money to earn money and feel security. The provisions such as the one that was put in place and which is now rightly revoked simply show that the government takes a year to undergo the same education to join the obvious logic we have told it at the time and, in any case, even late. Ladies and gentlemen, I am finishing - and I have the slight second word tomorrow - with the request to the government and the minister present - I say this, because I do not want to exacerbate the climate, and I do not think that exacerbation helps in the moments of crisis that is going through both the country and Europe - to withdraw these two provisions, which do not seek honour to the government's majority, do not look for a honour to the government, cause the Greek people, cause opposition and make them disgraceful for anyone who votes for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Kafantaris, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by saying something about what we have just heard from the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative. The New Democracy cannot renounce SYRIZA Members for dignity. The party and the policies that brought our country here that brought it, to have within four years a 25% reduction in GDP and when the government since 2015 has been trying to set that country on its feet, cannot say that we have no dignity for the Members, who would say that we have undertaken this historic responsibility to implement a policy and an agreement that has difficult points, while trying at the same time to support society. Ladies and gentlemen, I will remind you of what has happened since last year. A concrete road map was followed, first of all, with the difficult agreement of August which the New Democracy signed and a total of two hundred and twenty-two Members in this Parliament. It is about the power we took from the Greek people to implement this difficult agreement on 20 September. It has to do with the successful recapitalisation of the banks, as well as the assessment recently carried out and with which the course of our country and the economy is heading towards stabilisation, which is very important. It begins and comes back and confidence in the banking system and already in May, we have a small increase in deposits compared to April. Therefore, steps are being taken and I cannot say here that the primary surplus was EUR 2,282 billion in the first five months of the year. Efforts are being made and progress is being made. Ladies and gentlemen, for the development I have heard from the rapporteur of the New Democracy that this bill is not developmental, nor will the development law, which we have voted on, bring growth, more or less can be a failure. But I would like to say on this, that by stabilising the economy and the path we are taking, attracting investments and the arrangements that have been voted on in development law recently, the philosophy and model of development change, but it is also an important tool for further development in the country. It does not create investments of the type of Bulgaria and Albania nor investments of this kind, but investments of high added value, with other philosophy and focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, of course, we are calling for and we want the large investments, for which there are specific regulations. We want a development model, which speaks of other development, with sustainability, sustainability, respect for the environment and above all, covering human needs and with emphasis on the important human scientific potential, the expertise that our country has and, at the same time, fair sharing with the beneficiaries of this development result. I cannot say here, of course, that bills on public procurement and public works that will actually come will save about EUR 1 billion from the public sector. Not to mention a number of issues, financing large entrepreneurs. Recently we have legal effects for the Egnatia Road in Western Macedonia. Our philosophy is in a completely different direction. I shall now come and say a few words, as we started today's plenary, on the general situation that exists, because the referendum in Great Britain clearly brought concrete results for Europe. And here I agree with Mr Metarakis, who said at first that the landscape after the referendum in Great Britain will have changed in Europe, is quite different. However, the question, ladies and gentlemen, is this: Europe is in a crisis of identity. Europe really needs to think about where it is going from now on. The big question is not 'less or more Europe'. The big question today is 'what Europe?' because the result of the referendum in Great Britain and other Eurosceptical views that have been starting some time ago at European Union and Europe level show something in general. They show that this Europe does not like its peoples and that this Europe must really change it, because this Europe of austerity, neoliberalism, has made the British also angry and turn to extreme right-wing and nationalistic views which have found ground. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot have the multi-speed Europe or the North and South dimensions. We cannot have a central executive, which will decide. We must take the decision historically - and this is important at European Union, European Parliament and the Left in this direction - to change this model we are saying. We need democracy real, because what was judged and with the referendum is precisely the lack of democracy within the European Union. It is necessary to build a new vision of solidarity, of democracy, as was the fundamental principles of Europe when it was first established. However, I will now say a few things I have to say about this draft law. I would call it a multi-project, because it has that character and it has two main issues to solve. The first is the need to incorporate European directives, which we must incorporate into Greek legislation. On the other hand, some needs of the country's general government must be met. This is a grouping of various legislative interventions resulting from the need to regulate the day-to-day government work. Their main task is to strengthen deservedness, reduce expenditure, eliminate special advantages within the public sector, to serve productive activities more functionally, to remove bureaucracy injustices and failures, to save resources for professionals and businesses from unnecessary costs. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is made up of two parts and fifty-four articles. In the first part of the bill - from Article 1 to Article 8 - it is actually implemented, Directive 34/2013 is incorporated. The other provisions - Articles 19, 20, 29, 30, 35, 40, 45 - and Directive 95/2014 are amended and new provisions are added to it. These are rules relating to the content of the management report and the obligation to make financial statements public. Secondly, there is the possibility for enterprises that have to draw up and reduced and individualised management reports to include them in a single management report. For large enterprises and enterprises of public interest, an obligation is introduced to include in the report on the management of analytical non-financial information, which deals with the company's policy and practice in relation to environmental, labour and rightfulness issues. Here I would like to mention the inclusion of what we call corporate social responsibility. About a month ago, on the initiative of the French Parliament, a meeting was held in Paris, in which I participated as Chairman of the Committee on Production and Trade, where a French initiative on corporate social responsibility was discussed and taken by the French. In particular for listed companies, which are also required in a corporate governance statement, data relating to the diversity of administrative bodies regarding gender, age, educational and professional history of members are available. Under the current scheme, the declaration was compulsory content of the management report. It is now possible to draw up a separate document, posted on the company’s website. In practice, the administrative costs of publication are reduced. Thirdly, the principle of publication of only authorised financial statements is introduced. Under the current scheme, the so-called dual publication is provided for, i.e. companies are obliged to send copies of financial statements to the GFCM twenty days before a general meeting is convened and, secondly, after its adoption by the general meeting. An obligation to publish statements is now introduced only once, twenty days after their adoption by the General Assembly, thus reducing the administrative burden. I now come to the second part of the bill, which is structured into five chapters. The first part, in particular Article 9 to Article 13, concerns the staff of the Permanent National Representation to the OECD and the Office of the Economic Adviser in Geneva. This is a reduction in staff in the OECD for the positions of the permanent representative and the deputy and the five consultants now serving in this Agency and the Economic Adviser's Office in Geneva, where a head of staff and two advisers are present. Significant changes are, of course, in terms of the composition and composition and qualifications of those making up the Permanent National Representation. Formal and substantive qualifications shall be identified to be fitted there. The Permanent Representative and his Deputy must definitely have doctoral and postgraduate consultants or graduated from the National School of Public Administration. The Minister said more about that. I won't come back. In Part 2, Chapter II, Article 14 relates to the ESRB. This provision amends the known NRP law, corrects imperfections, arrhythmias. I am just saying here - because the other things have just been said by the Minister and I do not want to get tired - that, as far as the ESDP is concerned, our country is going very well. We're the first to absorb. It closed in 2015 very positively and there is a certain hope - and it seems along the way - that the same will be done for the new NSRF. Here again, I would like to mention that the Greek Government's special success in the course of negotiation and in the course of evaluation is that we receive more advances from the NSRF. Instead of 7% we managed 15%. To distinguish ourselves at European level in these difficult budgetary conditions is very important. Now I come to Chapter C, to Articles 15 to 22, where matters of responsibility are regulated by the General Secretariat of Industry, issues of development, licensing of business parks, organised manufacturing and business receptors by amending the provisions of Law 3982/2011. In Chapter IV, Articles 23 to 28, they regulate matters of responsibility of the General Secretariat of Trade and Consumer Protection, the obligation of suppliers who must be registered in the GFCM and who want to conclude distance contracts with consumers, to register their activities in the GFCM. The same applies, of course, to e-commerce. Finally, in Chapter E, Articles 29 to 54, issues of tourism are regulated, a legislative framework for tourist professions. I now come to the amendments. Following the discussion of ministerial amendments, which came to the Standing Committee on Production and Trade, articles relating to the Ministry of Education were incorporated, concerning school advisors, research, the General Secretariat of Lifelong Learning and topics of the Ministry of Labour, the extension of funding of structures to deal with poverty, humanitarian crisis, the IDI and others, issues of rural parking in Patras, AU recommendation on the institution of the Capital of Culture. A parliamentary amendment on the institution of national customs was, of course, accepted. In conclusion, I would like to say that the amendments which are coming, ladies and gentlemen, are many. But as I said at the outset, this bill we are debating is more of the character of a bill, which is trying to resolve individual issues in procedural terms, such as extensions, for example. The Department of Energy has brought some extensions for the energy inspectors. What's gonna happen? Will they stay 'in the air'? Won't they go through contracts, because they need energy certificates? I'm telling you, I'm telling you. Also, there are other issues that have to do with the extension of funding for the Poverty Centres. In other words, time-consuming issues are being dealt with. So I believe - and this is the government's will as it has been announced - that in July we will have a series of bills which will resolve general issues. So let us also look at the amendments. I would agree that it is important that they should be discussed, as was done in our committee where five of them were incorporated into the draft law that we are debating. Let's talk about them if we want to see what they're targeting. They resolve the current issues, which need to be resolved. From there, of course, we must move forward and legislate in line with the new Rules of Procedure of the House which, as we all know, was adopted today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantaris.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u58	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u59	What do you want, Mr. Metarakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u60	I just wanted to ask the Minister a question to organize our work. Nine ministerial amendments have been tabled so far, seven late and two normal ones. Are we waiting for more tomorrow, or are we done here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u61	No, we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u62	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u63	The Minister's explanations were given to your question. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S2-commons.u64	With the consent of the House at no time 21.34' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 29 June 2016 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) legislative work, continuation of the debate and vote of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: "Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Articles 19, 20, 29, 30, 33, 35, 40 to 46 of Directive 2013/34/EU on 'the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related business reports of certain forms, amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC' (OJ L 340, 30.12.2013, p. L 189 of 29 June 2013) and Directive 2014/95/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (EU. L 330/1 of 15 November 2014) ‘amending Directive 2013/34/EU as regards the disclosure of non-financial information and information on the diversity of certain large enterprises and groups’ and other provisions of the competence of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism’ and (b) discussion and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and with Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity of MPs, etc. Nicholas Phili, Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, Nicholas Michalliakos and Ilia Kasidiari, according to the special agenda distributed.
