ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Thursday 7 July 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 1078/4-7-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Athanasios (Sakis) Papadopoulos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the amendment of the last paragraph of Article 33(3) of Law 2859/2000 on the Termination of the Code of Added Value Tax (VAT 1 248/07-11-2000). 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Halkidiki of New Democracy Mr Georgios Vagios Vagiona to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction about the risk of stopping the construction of vital projects in Halkidiki. 3. The Question by MP Evia of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the 'inaccurate remote sensing of land, leading to an unprecedented economic dead end for cotton farmers'. 4. PASOK - DIMAR Mr Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of State regarding the letter from the Commissioner responsible for matters relating to the recent law on the licensing of the Mass Information Instruments. 5. The question asked by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the implementation of the Collective Work Agreements at hotels. 6. Under number 1071/29-6-2016, a topical question by MP 2 Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the automotive industry ‘VOLKSWAGEN’. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP A'Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the fire protection system of the Sheikh Sou. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 1079/4-7-2016, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the degradation of IKA branches for the insured of Heraklion Prefecture. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 1075/1-7-2016 of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, concerning measures to limit the illicit trade in medicinal products. 3. The question asked by MP Kilkis of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the staffing and development of the Investment Planning and Technology Department of TEI in Kilkis. 4. Under number 1070/29-6-2016, a topical question by MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Haras Kefidou to the Minister of Finance, on the free entry of museums and archaeological sites for visual artists. 5. Under number 1080/4-7-2016, a topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Health on the staffing of the EKA in Larissa Law and the creation of EKAB areas in health centres in Larissa Prefecture. 6. The Question No 1044,27-2016 by MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Karagiannides to the Minister of Health on the professional and work upgrade of the ‘assisted nurses’. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question under number 104/24-2016 of the Greek Independent MEP Georgios Lazarides to the Minister for the Environment and Energy concerning the examination of a certificate of successful examination of Energy Inspectors. 8. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the advance announcement of tragic developments in the field of electricity production. 9. The question under number 1047-27-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr.Ioannis Delis, to the Ministers for Education, Research and Religious Affairs and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning measures for the education of refugees. 10. Under number 1042-24-2016, a topical question by MP II Athens of Independent Greeks Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Finance on the Greek government's extrajudicial compromise with SIEMENS. 11. The Question No 914/27-5-2016 by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the "creating of illegal kindergartens and boarding schools in Xanthi". 12. Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of Health, Question No 545/15-2-2016 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn to the Minister of Health, on the problems of operation in the EKAB. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health regarding patients who operate at their own expense at the University Hospital of Thessaloniki "ACHEP". 14. Observed. The question of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Athanasios (Sakis) Vardalis to the Finance and National Defence Ministers on the Greek Vehicle Industry (ELVO S.A.). 15. Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, Member of the European Parliament, asked the Minister of Health about the situation in the State General Nice. 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions Under number 935/31-5-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Health about the shortcomings and problems of the fleet of the EKAB. 17. Under number 825/254-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Association of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economics to the Minister of Health regarding the residual functioning of the Anticancer Hospital of Metataxas. 18. The question asked by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the deletion of students from the OAED registers. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health about the planning for the start of the multi-powered Iatrician Tymbakis - Heraklion Crete. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question and application under number 4375/304/31-3-2016 by the First Vice-President of Parliament and MP for Athens of New Democracy Mr Nikita Kaklamanis to the Minister of Finance regarding the financial size of the contract with Kim Glen. 3. The 3062/10-2-2016 question by the Independent MEP Mr Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Finance about the compensation of the Partners of Cooperative Banks. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only a discussion and a vote on the principle, articles, amendments and all the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Preparation of Council Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom on the system of the European Union’s own resources and other provisions’. The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this convention. However, since two ministerial amendments have been tabled, number one. Question No 530/103 and No 530/103 Question No 531/104, by Mr Ephremidis, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and Mr Ephremidis, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) Question No 515/100, by Mr Ephremidis and others, by Mr Ephremidis, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Ephremidis, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Ephremidis, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Rainbow Group, Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Question No 528/101 by Mr Ephremidis and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina; 529/102, I propose that Mr Georgios Germenis should initially be placed at the outset of the Convention by the People's Association - Golden Dawn and Mrs Diamanto Manolakos from the Communist Party of Greece, who voted against the Standing Committee and the Minister responsible, who will be placed at the end of the day. I then propose that the amendments should be discussed together with the rapporteurs and the special speakers, the Parliamentary Representatives, the relevant ministers - and if anyone wanted to be registered, they could do so - and everyone should take the floor for five minutes. After the debate on the amendments with the positions and the appropriate ministers, then we shall proceed to the vote. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u2	No, Mr. President. Can I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u3	Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, the ratification has been supplemented by two other articles. So it's about a bill. In addition, two other amendments were added last night. That means we have to discuss a bill now. In this sense, the rapporteurs must be given time to talk in general both about ratification and the articles, which are completely different issues. That is why we are asking for the Communist Party of Greece to be at ease of time for a comprehensive position on all issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u5	Good, Mrs Manolakou. There'll be comfort in time. As far as I am concerned, it is about incorporating two amendments into the body. There's gonna be this comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u7	You're welcome, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, every time it is followed - not by you - this tactic, which the House is adapting to the logic of the government to view the House as its home, its field and to do whatever it wants, what it wants, we will intervene. We will intervene every time that happens. And where's it going against Coron? In cases of ratification of contracts, agreements. What's going on there, Mr. President? We have also discussed this at the Conference of Presidents. You remember them. All the rules of good legislation are being circumvented, namely the consultation of Parliament, the Central Legislative Committee, the Directorate for Scientific Studies, the competent parliamentary committee and the bodies that come to speak there. Every time that happens, we, in proving that we will not be suffering from malnutrition, take the floor and denounce this tactic, as we are doing today. Mr President, we now have an amendment from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, twenty-one pages! Last week, again in sanction, another similar one came in, which is a small draft law. So, what's going to happen? Is there no room for the Bureau to reject these parliamentary practices? Why did that happen in the past few years? Although there was a phenomenon of the amendments there, there was no sanctions. This was strictly the case in sanctions. This is where the government is taking advantage. An abbreviated parliamentary procedure, which has been carried out for the sake of abbreviation and sanctions, has been used in the committee responsible for which there has been no conflict. Most parties support it. As we support today. You accept this tragic tactic. Oh, no. Secondly, I agree with what Mrs Manolakou said. We had the ratification, but we also had two amendments. Since we had ratification and had two amendments, we have a classic draft law. As we operate economically, since the Bureau is poorly - not you - the Bureau as a whole - you took the intervention from the ministries last night and, in any case, after you accepted the two amendments, which were incorporated, in an economic sense, Mr President, in the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, you must not just accept with some kindness the comfort of the speakers, but also the rapporteurs, who have agreed with the ratification text, to speak properly. In other words, a normal parliamentary procedure must also be followed in the Convention. There is no interest in Members enrolled, but the rapporteurs - all eight, if they wish - should take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u9	All right, if they want to, take the floor. Mr. Loverdo, I'd say bypassing some descriptions. Otherwise, the Minister will be asked to substantiate the amendments. So I beg some designations and anyone who wishes the rapporteurs to take the floor will have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u11	Mr Carras, if you do not have anything to add to what has already been said, I say that we shall proceed with the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u12	I fully understand that, Mr President. Supplementary only for the purpose of recording. There must be dialogue within the Chamber. The amendments, as they come, come as self-evident bills. This situation - I have said several times - reduces Parliament's prestige, reduces Members' prestige and prevents good legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u13	All right, Mr. Carras. Repeat the previous argument. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, may I have the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u15	Yes, Mr. Dannelly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are taking a decision by the Council of 2014, a decision which is, in any case, out of reality. This is a European reality of two and a half years ago. Today it is under way - and, indeed, it will be completed by October, November at most - the debate on the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework and the European budget in a very different reality, which is even worsening by Brexit. It is not enough that we have been called upon to vote on something that is no longer relevant to the current reality, but in this case we have an emblem in addition to the two amendments which have been incorporated with the agreement and in breach of the Rules of Procedure by the committee, and two delayed amendments, which relate entirely to different fields and, of course, to a legislative body on their own. I am particularly concerned with the late amendment by the Ministry of Education, which deals with a major issue of the organisation and functioning of higher education, which is about how to choose, how to develop higher education teachers and is coming to amend another amendment, which this House recently voted, if I remember well, with the research bill. This shows curiosity, for study never brings right results. That is why we are complaining, Mr President, about the methodology and also about the curiosity with which very serious issues are dealt with with with extremely serious areas such as higher education.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u17	I would say that for the pathology of the delay in ratification of contracts a lot has been said at times. This is a chronic pathology. It has been set as a target, within a certain period of time, for contracts to be ratified.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Maniotis, would you like to add something different or move on? After we accepted the procedure, anyone who wants to speak by the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u21	I'm telling you this to save time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u22	Here, there is a juncture for the leading institution of democracy in Greece, which is the Greek Parliament. If we look at the ratification of a top text at the same time as we have referendums in progress and a complete turbulence at European Union level, we encourage the role of the people's representatives. I therefore believe that, on the basis of the fact that we have today to ratify the multiannual financial framework, which is one of the most important factors, for which we have arrived here as a Europe, we have to debate comfortably and text.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u23	Put a perfect one on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u24	In addition, Mr President, I think this is a very good opportunity for the parliamentary groups to table their own proposals on how we can get away from this stagnation in which we are in.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u25	On the occasion of Brexit, Mr Tusk said it was the end of Western civilization. If we put this issue on the table, what about this culture... Mr. Germenis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u26	Shouldn't I be too? I cannot place myself as the rest of the parties were placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u27	Okay, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u28	Let me tell you that we don't disagree with the previous ones. But every time we have a sanction, it's a mess. But be careful, we with the government are not at all concerned. She's doing her job. You as the Bureau - and I am not referring personally to you, but to the Bureau as an institution - must take a position in the Conference of Presidents and clarify your position if you agree with what the government does or do not agree. Because every time we come to this Chamber and discuss the same things. We cannot discuss this. We cannot bring twenty-one-page amendments, as has been said before. We are also in a difficult position, because some of these amendments may be right, some of the sanctions are right and we do not have time to study them. So you, as a Bureau, need to take a position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u29	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u30	Mr Germenis, come to Stepma, you have the floor on the ratification of the agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u31	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u32	I have given the floor to Mr. Germenis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u33	No, no, that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u34	Please facilitate the process. Mr. Danellis spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u35	As a parliamentary representative, I am entitled to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u36	What can he add? What can your presence add?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u37	I'll tell you what he'll add. Open the microphone and I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u38	Why? Did I turn you off the microphone?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u39	I'll tell you, Mr. President. I wasn't going to take the floor, but you made an aggressive comment. As soon as Mr. Maniotis has finished his own introductory position, you said that only after the world we should not speak. Excuse me, Mr. President. Let me talk. So you, Mr President, are 'acceptably pie and cheap in flour', if you accept it, as did the honourable Member who spoke earlier, or at least comment on this tactic. Two last-minute amendments, two other amendments to the draft law are part of ratification. Make us a comment. You commented on the aftermath of the world. Now, comment on the principle of the world and on the way in which the parliamentary procedure is being done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u40	Good. Your presence has been added. Let's move on. Mr. Germenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u41	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u42	Your presence has been added.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u43	How?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u44	Your presence has been added to the rest! [[Noise - protests in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, do not obstruct the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u45	Why are you commenting, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u46	What's that now? Aren't we going to sit down?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u47	Are you kidding us there in the Chair?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u48	As you say, do we have the floor to add to the sack?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u49	I say that the process will go ahead. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u50	Your look...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Amyras, please very much. You've heard. That's what I said. Did that hurt you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u52	Your style is a matter for us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u53	Yeah, we all mind!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u54	We don't mind you commenting!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u55	Everything hurts you. Mr. Germenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u56	Today we are here to vote for a ratification of the European Council decision, which had already been passed in 2014 and is coming to ratification two years later. As we know, the European Union budget comes from its own resources, which are known as a system of own resources. So these funds are the main source of European Union budget revenue. Let us say here that this budget is balanced, that is, revenue cannot exceed expenditure. As we have seen in the documents you have sent to study on this, a corrective mechanism for the budgetary imbalances of the United Kingdom for the years 1995-2013 is provided for. This means that Greece has to pay for England's problems huge amounts in the coming years. This is an indignation for the Greek people when he actually faces problems of national and economic survival. The next tragedy is that, for the same period, which we will pay in great amount, other states, such as Denmark, the Netherlands and Austria, will participate to a minimum. Here we have an obvious inequality. In essence, the richest economic countries in Greece pay less and the mechanism for correcting British problems is financed by all the Member States except Germany, the Netherlands, Austria and Sweden. It is necessary to denounce cases which, in our view, demonstrate the disparities resulting from the implementation of this instrument. The first case concerns the introduction of a uniform rate of VAT based on VAT, which is set at 0.30% of GDP for all countries including Greece, for the years 2014 to 2020, except for Germany, the Netherlands, Austria and Sweden, for which this rate is set at 0,15%. I ask myself: why does Greece have to pay on the basis of the increased rate? The findings are obvious. There is a discrepancy between the requested contribution of the Greek State and its real economic potential. The second case concerns the forecasts contained in the Council Decision, which, according to them for the period 2014-2020, Denmark, the Netherlands, Sweden, will benefit from gross reductions in their annual GDP contribution by EUR 130 million, by EUR 695 million and by EUR 185 million respectively. In the same way, Austria will benefit by EUR 30 million in 2014, by EUR 20 million in 2015 and by EUR 10 million in 2016. On the contrary, according to the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, Greece has been obliged for the period from 2014 to 2020 to pay the maximum amount of EUR 12,5 billion. The European Union has evolved into an anti-national organisation, which alone aims to exploit the resources of its weakest members, for the benefit of the political survival of the most powerful. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I have two more minutes, Mr. President, because the clock started slower.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u57	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u58	Decisions relating to the own resources system are taken after consultation of the Council and the European Parliament, without requiring the essential contribution of the national parliaments, which actually ratify, as you will do today, the existing decisions. So the Greek Parliament is given the role of a parrot. Unfortunately, we are once again taking into account the substantial weakening of national parliaments and the strengthening of supranational centres of power. The experiment of globalisation seems to be in one of its final stages, using the tools of people's manipulation, the deformation of national and cultural characteristics, the violation of national sovereignty, the abolition of national economies and national borders, as well as the ruthless interference with national issues. International potentialrs are speculating at the expense of the peoples of Europe. The Greeks who are listening to us know that we representatives of the People's League - Golden Dawn, fully understand the tragic conditions experienced by the peoples of Europe and especially Greece. We are proposing the national flag and resisting in every way and striving to suppress the hostile forces and policies imposed in our country and, secondly, to shape the conditions that will lead to the economic and moral rise of the Greek people. The unfair application of strict budgetary discipline, while we are spending the sixth year in the memorandum, is the most important reason why we will vote against this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, too. Before I give Mrs Manolakou the floor, I would like to make two announcements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u60	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u61	Wait a minute, Mr. Maniot. The Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction submitted a draft law on 5-7-2016: “Reasonable representation of political parties, extending the right to elect and other provisions on the election of MPs”. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to you Protocol No 9775/616-5-2016 decision of the President of the Parliament: Establishment and setting up of the Subcommittee on "The debt and the impairment" of the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs. This decision has been posted to parliamentary transparency and will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Maniot, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u63	I would like to place myself on the contract, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u64	Wait a minute. Mrs Manolakou must speak first. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u65	The result of the referendum on Britain's exit from the European Union, namely Brexit, which expresses competition between capitalists and the labour-popular discontent, but which is caught up in intra-urban conflicts, cannot lead to choices in favour of the interests of the working class and poor people's populations, since the capitalist Britain of sterling, within or outside the European Union, will not change its anti-popularity, will not stop the attack on labour-popular rights. However, Britain is the second largest economy in the European Union and the fifth in the world on terms of GDP and currently covers 20% of European Union budget revenue, and that is the main issue. I mention this because we are discussing the European Union budget and when Brexit is implemented, then there will be a real reallocation of the obligations of the Member States of the European Union to the Community budget. For the Communist Party of Greece, of course, this other budget of the European Union will be at the expense of the peoples and the monopolies. Because the competition in capitalism is not abolished. Whatever the future of the European Union, the people will be under increasing pressure from the capitalists. That is why it is a one-way to demand the satisfaction of all their needs and the anti-capitalist, anti-monopoly struggle to overthrow the power of capital, the release from the European Union, the socialisation of monopolies, to pave the way for their own prosperity. We must not forget that people's money is the resources of the European Union's budgets which we are debating today and which divides them into monopolies and in repressive mechanisms, into a Euro-Arab, Euro-Police and so on. Greece, namely our people, pays 12.5 billion to share in large business groups. In no case does the people's family, who have been smacked of their income, whose needs have been increased and plagued by unemployment and poverty. We can draw conclusions in the thirty-five years that we have been in the European Union. Has the working class and the city and countryside benefited? It's from bad to worse. The middle layers are destroyed, shrinking and the last remaining labour and social rights will disappear from the abolition of collective agreements, the abolition of permanent and stable work, wages and poverty pensions. Group redundancies, restrictions, even the right to strike, are also being prepared. This is the European Union and this is its budget. The European Union has only permanent memoranda for the people. This draft law, therefore, determines the sources and the amount of own resources, Member States give the national budget 1.23% of their gross domestic income, i.e. about 0.9% of each country's GDP. There are also customs duties on imports from countries outside the European Union and taxes on sugar production, as well as the VAT rate collected from the countries of the European Union. Reduced payments are provided for the Netherlands and Sweden and for reduced VAT returns for Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden and Austria. The amount retained by the Member States is also reduced as a way of collecting VAT, for the benefit of the budget and revenue of the European Union. This is part of the heavy price paid by our people, with the participation of the country in this transnational imperialist union of monopolies. This is money from the pillaging of the broken income of working people's families by the current government and the previous ones. In addition, there is a debate in progress to find additional resources from the Member States to finance the Euro-Union budget, which the working class and the popular strata will pay again. It is therefore a profoundly classic budget, such as the Greek budget, not only because revenue comes to an overwhelming extent from the bleeding of people's income and direct or indirect taxation, but also because labour income is redistributed for the benefit of the monopolistic groups, through the Euro-Union funds and the European Union's financial instruments. For these reasons, we are voting against the draft law. As far as Article 2 is concerned, we shall vote on it. However, we are asking for the law of the Pan-Hellenic Music Association to be incorporated into paragraph 1, as is the case with other branches. We attach their request to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolaku, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] The amendment, which has been made to the third paragraph of Article 3 concerning travel and travel by the National and State Theatre of Northern Greece, is unacceptable. Because the current collective agreement for these theatres provides for daily compensation of a total of EUR 110 and you are stumbling it, you are drastically reducing it. We also ask that the actors of the State Theatre of Northern Greece and the National Theatre be given the total amount of 110 euros, as provided for in the collective agreement. Furthermore, the amendment to the National Theatre does not clarify what actors will get today. He says: 'When the memorandum expires, they will receive a total of EUR 130'. Ask me for a triple, when the European Union's pilgrimage policy has cuts and memorials, torches the people and the workers to gain from capitalists and monopolies. However, as far as the next paragraph relating to travel expenses is concerned, you are provoking it. We're filing the report of the U.S. Trade Union Workers. Of course, such problems also concern other sectors, in order to have out-of-court travel arrangements for the IGM. Because if they stay as they are, they find it difficult, they do not facilitate the functions of the IGM at all, since it also employs technical staff of all levels. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolaku, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] Finally, with regard to Amendment No 531 by the Ministry of Agriculture, you are causing, by obliging the geotechnic assessors to move about the value-added work, effectively covering the costs of road transport from their pockets. They'll be cut off as more - why? - because the farmer pays valuation fees, i.e. travel fees, and ELGA collects them. But you're cutting it. We put the request and position of the ELGA Workers' Association and we will say more during the debate on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Maniatou, may I ask you something? If you also extend to the issues of amendments, I don't know if you want to hear first...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u67	No, Mr President, I am not going to talk about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u68	Good, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, because I am not at all sure whether any Greek citizens who are following this debate have understood what we are talking about, we must say that here today we are debating the ratification of a very important text for the European Union, which is multiannual financial planning. It is the Community's revenue and expenditure, revenue and expenditure for all Member States for the next five years. This debate coincides with a tragic development in Europe over the last few years, with Brexit peaking. I therefore believe that, once we have the government to submit to ratification of a convention on the European Union's multiannual financial framework, many of the amendments from the Ministry of Education to the way in which the appreciators of ELGA are moved, it would be a cancellation to all of us, colleagues and colleagues, not to discuss exactly what is happening in Europe and which may have led to the point where we have arrived. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago we had a traumatic development in Europe with the result of the referendum in Great Britain. We had a serious injury to the idea of European integration. If we do not pay attention, and if the national parliaments do not contribute to this, this serious injury to the European Union's idea can evolve into a mortal process that will bring Europe back to the old, what historian Mark Mazauer described as a Europe - the dark continent of the 20th century. We therefore have a duty today to put forward a number of thoughts, even briefly. Brexit: Why Brexit? Because the people of Great Britain also succumbed to populism, demagogy and to foolish and false politicians who, when they achieved their goal, like mice left the ship. "They flew" and "they fled" by leaving the British people and all of us European peoples to see how we handle their falsehoods, their own delusion, their own lies. Of course, in our homeland, we had another approach. Instead of the resignation we have had a great deal of humiliation: the result of the referendum - last year - became a great "NAI", but unfortunately it was accompanied by a huge cost for the Greek people, more than 86 billion euros, an increase of HNPH, an increase of EKT's cut in the international sale of the entire public property, all of which is the dowry of the Greek people for the next ninety-nine years. I don't know what would be better, resignation or cubism. But I know very well that demagogy and populism are dragging peoples into choices that they have regretted in a very short time. And you want a receipt for Greece? A few days ago a poll was published on who think the referendum was a right choice. 63% of Greek citizens think it was a tragic mistake. We are therefore unable to see the celebrations of the Prime Minister from Beijing, who triumphs over the historic defeat of Greece, the historical defeat of truth towards the Greek people and even try to distort things by making the white and black white.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u70	62%!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Papadopoulos, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u72	We are now discussing the financial framework. Let's see, did this just happen? This story is a premier story of subjecting a leading international level of initiative, which began a few decades earlier, to a balance between the Member States and the peoples, which was subject to short-term government and nationalist interests. From 1.24% of Europe's total gross product, just three years ago by decision of the Heads of State or Government, it became 1.23%. It decreased by 0.01%. This reduction, however, was another symbolic signal that some are looking only at themselves and do not look at the whole of the European Union. And where did we get here? We have reached the point where the financial survival of the European Union budget depends, so the survival and all the financial instruments and the structural funds supporting the weakest countries, the will and the choice of the most powerful each time in the Member State. Why? Why, colleagues and colleagues, in 2013, the Community budget was determined by 76% of how much the Member States contribute and by only 11% of the neutral and away from government VAT return purposes. A great bet, therefore, which the current government must put, but also all of us in Parliament's parliamentary groups, are to reverse this course, to revert to choices that do not depend on the choices of each of Mr Orban in Hungary, who wants to referendum to throw out the immigrants, the Jews tomorrow, the Roma, or I don't know what else. And so that the future of the European peoples and the European Union does not depend on how each country chooses a strong state, such as Great Britain or Germany, for internal reasons to finance the European Union. We, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled two very specific proposals in the multiannual financial framework. I'm telegraphing them. We submitted them to the European Parliament, at the great meeting held by the European Social Democrats two months ago. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The proposals are therefore as follows: Firstly, to decide and support all the groups in the European Parliament to set up a pan-European fund to combat unemployment and support employment, so that, together with national programmes to combat unemployment and sectoral employment support policies, we also have a pan-European umbrella, with the great problem of young people in southern countries and much more in Greece, namely the problem of unemployment, being dealt with as a new holistic European initiative. And our second proposal, which is also directly related to the text we are coming here to ratify and which, I repeat, is under negotiation - and so what we are saying here is that the government should listen to them, to put them at the dialogue table - is to return what we had submitted since 2012 and 2013, namely to apply the tax on short-term financial transactions, what we say in the international terminology 'Tobin Tax'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u73	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u74	I shall conclude, Mr President. To impose a small tax on short-term speculative movements on stock exchanges so that, by retaining a small part of these transactions - this is the Tobin tax - we can strengthen, in a way that does not affect any European people, the large pools of money, which will help us to have a regional and national convergence of all economies in the fight against unemployment. So I think that none of us want to see thousands of faces like Mr Farage appear in the next few days, which will no longer be a British islander, but a continentist. And we already have a lot of faces like Mr. Farage, Mrs. Marie Lepenn and Mr. Pepe Grillo in Italy. That is why we must unite our forces and finally, politically and seriously in the national Parliament, see how we can face the major challenges facing us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u75	So do we.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, I would like to ask a question on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u77	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u78	Will a list of amendments be opened?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u79	I say I give the two Ministers the floor to argue. Do you want to talk after the speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u80	No, just some of my colleagues want to be placed. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u81	We have already said that, Mr Amyras, if anyone wishes to do so, it can be registered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u82	All right, it's gonna open a list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u83	Before I give the floor to Mr. Friend, I have an announcement to give you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme: 'Summer Democracy Workshop', organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-six students and students and three educational attendants from the 5th and 7th High Schools of Aigaleo. We welcome the kids. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments we tabled, the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concern primarily the functioning of higher education institutions. A first category of topics identified relate to the proclamation and selection of teachers at higher education institutions. Obviously, the administration complies with the case-law of the Council of State on similar matters. As also, we are trying to combine in determining the number of members of the elite body and the capacity of the department to which the post for an AEI belongs. We are also trying to clarify other issues, such as, for example, that a condition for the choice or development of the professor is not only the relevance, but can be 'and the relevance', i.e. 'or the relevance' of the doctoral thesis with the subject of the post being filled. Logic is simple. We do not want there to be a 'industrial' in the initial and doctorate of the candidates to understand a general position. The question is to have a scientific development and to be judged by the competent university authorities. For the record, I would just like to mention that I have had a chance at the end of his academic career, Professor of Church Law, the late Christophilus, for whom the late Constantine Chatsos had said, when he was elected professor of Church Law, "The atheophobus began with a Ph.D. in Athletics, proceeded with Ph.D. on the Merchant and became a professor of Church Law". It was a time of maturity, to judge in a way that was global and not narrowly technocratic and focused on individual scientists and, of course, a universal university presence. That is what we want and we insist on. The crisis in this area is always about universities. There are also some other provisions concerning the independent departments of universities. Where there are no substitute and first grade teachers, there will be a case-by-case assistant professor, because there is a question of the functionality of the non-powerful departments at universities. They will also participate with one of their representatives and the other representatives of the scientific community. I am, however, particularly concerned with the regulation concerning the whole of the university community, universities, students and the whole of Greek society. It's the subject of university writings. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to have a size class, this is a free distribution of forty-two thousand university-letter titles - of which, of course, only sixteen thousand are active - offered by seven hundred forty-five publishers and eight hundred nineteen self-issuers, at an annual cost of EUR 60 million. The writings are distributed to a total of two million percent twenty thousand publications in two hundred thirty thousand students. Only sizes are an organisational and operational challenge for each administrative system. I'd say it's the biggest structured book market in our country. But I would like to make a little reference. While all the costs in education and other public procurement fell during the memorandum - in fact, dramatically and often at the expense of the quality of supplies - especially in the field of university writings, we have a small explosion of expenditure on top, that is, from EUR 45 million to about EUR 60 million. We don't have any new books to justify such a big increase. We don't have an increase in student numbers. However, in spite of this, and usually with the same publishers as the Greek State, we have such a huge expenditure explosion for university writings. It is therefore necessary to monitor and rationalise these expenditure. I say in advance that whatever money is saved - and enough money can be saved - they will not go to a black debt hole, but they will be invested by the Ministry of Education in the expenditure on homes and student care, that is to say, again in favour of students and students. So our attempt is not just an attempt to save money. It is an attempt to save money from where we predict waste, but for the benefit of students. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] What we are doing with regulation is setting up two committees, a committee which takes over the cost of teaching books and a committee which takes over the sampling of these decisions. The previous regulation was about a single committee, but it did not work as a single committee, because it was a two-headed committee which actually conflicts with competences. He cannot decide on the costing of the writings to be also the one making the sample check and judging the objections raised. We need to diversify these two committees with different tasks. We therefore introduce an institutional counterweight system on the basis of new strict criteria and specifications, which will, on the one hand, reduce the overall burden on the state budget and, on the other, ensure quality writings for students. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] It is clear that this Cost Control Committee will monitor price formation on the basis of the joint ministerial costing decision, and will specify, among other things, precisely the criteria for subjecting the teaching book to categories, whether medical, music or mathematical, etc. and the necessity of four-christmas - something you know is a patent to increase the value of the book - the university manual. It will also identify other cost reduction factors by ensuring the quality of the charts. Furthermore, the second committee, the Committee on Sampling and Objections will monitor cost formation, but from a different starting point, by checking the cost and cost of the distributed titles of each of the publishing companies and will resolve disputes between publishers and the Cost Control Committee. Before this amendment is presented, we have received complaints or even responses. We are fully aware that this regulation, which is to the benefit of the Greek public and, in particular, of students and students, and a regulation that rationalises and puts obstacles to waste, is a regulation that causes interests. We are determined to address these pressures, we believe with the agreement of the entire National Representation. Finally, there are some other arrangements, such as the arrangements for extending the term of office of the secretaries of the higher education institutions. This was another patent, with which, without the nomination of new Secretary-General of the universities, and without the supervision and evaluation of this institution, there was one - with a personal character is the truth many times - the personal renewal of this mandate. We are therefore abolishing this time-consuming regime. And just from this regulation, the Greek public wins 1.850,000 euros. It is not a large amount, but it is a sum which we actually gave as Greek State, without need. There are also some other regulations, which I would say are more legislative improvements than substance, which concern the Open University and the IKY.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u85	Minister, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, I apologise, but give me a little tolerance for one minute to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u87	Here you go, Minister, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u88	As the political debate was first generalised, I would like to say that one year after the referendum in Greece, we are proud as government and political forces, which we have asked the Greek people to intervene at a limit point in the negotiation. And 'no' remains in the sense that the people will be called upon to say their opinion whenever necessary, it will be called upon to be the last refuge of democracy. Whether we like the result of a referendum or not, I repeat that it will be the last refuge of democracy. Because otherwise, if technocratic elites and government opacified functions in Europe are trying to substitute popular will, then the deadlocks are far greater and much more dangerous, as modern European reality shows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Apostle has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment that we are bringing is dealt with in four rural areas. Paragraph 1 regulates issues arising from the transitional period until the adoption of the management plans for grazing land, namely, the allocation of eligible pastures to farmers in the country, committees shall be set up in the Regional Units to regulate the allocation issues and the Minister for Rural Development shall be authorised to regulate any issue arising from the rental and rental. The second paragraph regulates issues relating to the movement of certain officials from the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and the supervised entities - apart from, of course, those relating to the Programme for Rural Development and the ESDP - for checks carried out or their participation in inspections, project receipts, sampling and others. This amendment is necessary in order to respond in the most appropriate and economic way to the task of these officials. Paragraph 3 is appropriate to include the possibility of setting up advisory committees and evaluation committees related to the needs of the implementation of the Rural Development Programme and the Operational Programme for Fisheries for the Sea. Paragraph 4 amends the provisions of Part Two of Law4314/2014 relating mainly to operational structures of the fisheries and maritime certification programme. A special service is set, I won't go into details. However, these are regulations which are necessary and to respond to issues of control and assessment, but above all, to move on with the Rural Development Programme and the ESDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u91	Thanks for the time economy. I have promised Mr. Vessiropoulos the floor. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, New Democracy, as underlined by our original rapporteur in the committee, will vote in favour of today's bill, which constitutes ratification of the Council's decision of 26 May 2014, taken through the Greek Presidency. It is a imperative move that removes the obstacles and problems that existed in the European Union budget and which were recorded in 2014. I would remind you that in this year the European Union's budget was set on a monthly basis, since there was no agreement between the Member States on the regulatory framework for the contribution of each country to the Community budget. The ratification of this decision that we are debating today is very important and comes at a time when the European structure faces challenges and risks arising from populism. In the face of this deadly danger, our country was also found a year ago when it was in danger of being literally left empty. It was a danger that we could avoid if the government had shown fundamental realism. In any case, Greek citizens have paid heavy costs from Plan B, creative ambiguities, referendums without reflection and without real object and improvisations of the government. We need more Europe, convergence of rules, and this Council Decision 2014/335 on the European Union's own resources system is moving in this direction, with all the problems, the shortcomings that exist and the necessary additions and corrections to be made in the future. But what do we mean by 'own resources'? It is revenue derived from contributions, premiums, additional compensatory amounts or rates and duties, where there are still. It is the revenue from VAT and it is also the revenue that each country contributes to the European Union budget on the basis of its GNP. The European Union's own resources budget, ladies and gentlemen, has unfortunately been reduced from 1.24% of GDP to 1.23% of GDP, and under these conditions this should have been increased, because there has been no common slap between the member countries and, in particular, between countries such as Britain and Sweden, which raised the issue of a reduced contribution. It is the responsibility of all the pro-European forces to reverse this image and, above all, to reconstitute the European Union's own resources budget more fairly. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we must make something clear. On the one hand, we cannot move on to economic and monetary union, we cannot move on to the coordination of our economic policies, we cannot have established our common currency, the euro, and at the same time the Community budget remains close to 1% of European Union GDP. It needs to grow up in order to absorb in the fairest and most effective way the vibrations that create crises such as the one we have experienced since the end of the last decade. That is why we need to look at the sources from which the own resources are currently being formed. Who are these? Traditional own resources, based on import duties from third countries, VAT and GNP. Today, the relationship between these three sources is heterogeneous. The own resources come at a rate that reaches 3/4 of the GDP-based Member States' contributions, while in the 1980s it was only 1/10. In this way, however, the strongest countries feel that they are making the most of their contributions, thus becoming reluctant. The great challenge for Europe is therefore to re-establish the balance in terms of the sources from which the own resources come. I believe that this is an area in which there must be consensus and agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, by Decision 2014/335/EU, which we are currently dominating, new elements are being introduced on the budget of the European Union's own resources. In particular, Article 2 requires Member States to retain 20% of traditional own resources as collection costs. I would remind you that in the previous 2007 decision the rate of retention was 25% of traditional own resources, so we have a 5% reduction, which is in the interests of the member countries in the region of Europe. In accordance with Article 2(4) thereof, the uniform rate applicable to all Member States shall be 0.30% of VAT revenue. Moreover, the VAT own resources rate for Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden amounts to 0,15% for the period 2014-2020, while the previous period was 0.10%. In other words, we are increasing again for the benefit of the countries in the region. However, the aim must be for these countries to harmonise the criteria and pay a similar percentage. Ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear to us that all problems relating to the financial independence of the European Union have been solved by the ratification of this decision. It is, however, a first step, as I said, because in these circumstances it is very important to have an agreement on the European Union budget. There is no doubt that there must be a comprehensive reform of the system of own resources, new resources in the pan-European area, which will compensate for short-term speculative capital movements, with a view to financing common development policies. I would like to point out that the European Parliament, in its resolution of April 2014, was in favour of a comprehensive reform of the own resources system, following a dialogue with the national parliaments. Euroscepticism, ladies and gentlemen, is fashionable. However, I would like to refer to the citizens who are thinking in the voice of reason, wisely and with evidence. Europe must change in much, acquire political unity, adopt development policies. Only when this change occurs, Greece must continue to be part of the European family. The crisis in recent years cannot neutralize the positive effects of its participation in the European Union at political and economic level for the country. Economically, the Mediterranean Integrated Programmes of the 1980s, the Community Support Frameworks, despite the fact that they were not best managed and distributed, changed Greece. In this particular five-year period, Greece will contribute EUR 12.5 billion as a Member State, according to the General Accounting Report. In the same five years, however, European funds totalling 40 billion will be injected into the country, which is a proof of the positive and beneficial consequences of our participation in the European family. In a globalised world no one can prevent or jeopardise the country's participation in a supranational organisation which ensures the security and stability of the country, such as the European Union. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be a minute, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy will vote in favour of the bill. From there, however, I would like to support the unacceptable practice of tabling new amendments once again and despite the fact that Mr Juliarakis in the committee has said that no other amendments will be tabled except those originally tabled. He told the Member of the Communist Party, Mr Manolaku. However, further amendments were tabled to the competence of the Ministries of Education and Rural Development. In fact, the latter is Mr. Juliaraki's signature. Once again it is confirmed that the words and commitments of the ministers of this government are of zero value. This is an ongoing anti-parliamentary practice that offends the institutions and, above all, the House. We in this parliamentary process are not going to be involved. We call on you to withdraw the two specific amendments to the competence of the Ministries of Education and Rural Development and to discuss them in draft legislation to come to this House. These unacceptable practices must be stopped, and this is also the responsibility of the President of the Parliament, because now the anti-parliamentary behaviour of the government is not only limited to tabling a series of unrelated amendments at twelfth hour, but also at the level of parliamentary control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, do I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u94	Wait a minute, Mr. Panayotus. You are a parliamentary representative. We said the special speakers would be ahead of us. Any other special speaker will take the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u95	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Cammene, the debate has been widened. You didn't get the news.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u97	I got the news, but there was a discomfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u98	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming today to vote as Independent Greeks for this particular directive, which has been in 2014. It is a great debate that needs to be held. We shall also be voting in favour of the amendments. I will personally congratulate the Minister of Education, Mr. Friend, who is trying to raise costs. I think that anyone who tries to collect expenses in this state should enjoy congratulating the entire House and not just the co-pilot or the ruling party. The costs of this waste in public need to be dealt with in all the lengths and backwards. We are also voting in favour of the amendments tabled by Mr Apostle and other colleagues. In conclusion, I would like to say that following the latest events in Great Britain, we must all wish the ruling party. As far as I know, they are two ladies and gentlemen for the leader of the party in democratic procedures. We hope that soon they will elect their leader so that we can move on to the next day. The next day, as far as we know - and this is important for Europe's finances and the management of the negotiation with Britain - is specific. One candidate supports the immediate activation of Article 50 and the immediate exit from the European Union. The second candidate said they could start much later, up to the beginning of 2017. These two issues are directly related to Europe's finances, directly with Europe's resources which discuss this bill, directly with long-term macroeconomic and microeconomic elements. The banking and pension sector in Europe will be directly affected. We see what is happening in Italy. A bank in Belgium was closed a month ago, but it is not here to analyse exactly what is happening. There is a great concern and this concern has come from the ordinary democratic right of each people to hold a referendum and to decide on a very important and clear question put to it. This always raises questions, with a 'yes' or a 'no', for the people to decide on the political future of their country or for whom the referendum is at stake. However, some very important elements came from this referendum. For me, unfortunately, they came to Europe. I remember the pressures that our Government has been through last year, but also previous governments - and Mr Papandreou and Mr Samaras and Mr Samaras' co-government with Mr Papandreou and Mr Papademos - the incredible pressures of federalist Europe, which she wanted to impose in completely undemocratic ways on the democratic process of a sovereign country, whether these are elections or that is called a referendum. We should not forget that Mr Schultz has lost his temper over these days and said that we cannot let a crowd decide for Europe. He named Britain's 'crowd' voters. It's insulting to me. It's not a crowd. They are citizens of a great Europe, who have every right to decide. I was sad to hear Mr. Schultz's view both from Mrs. Bakoyannis, who said that referendums are dangerous, as well as from the new Chief of Officerial Opposition, Mr. Mitsotakis, who wondered whether a majority in a referendum could be asked to determine the future of a country. Yes, Mr. Mitsotakis, this can happen. We need to see what the great picture in Europe is of today's directive. The great picture in Europe is one which we need to decide whether or not we like it and how we are going to go within it. In a second interview Mr Schultz suggested that the European Parliament should have a large government in Europe. That is why we need to open a dialogue and open it between us. We do not have to be opened by Europeans when they want to. Let's open him up between us. Does it require overgovernment in Europe, with specific responsibilities, for all citizens to know it and for them to decide whether they like it? Yes or no? Does it need an economic overgovernment, a central Ministry of Finance, which will control the finances of all states as if they were multinational branches? Yes or no? The staffing, ethnicities and nationalities of members who are currently in key positions in the European Union have been involved in seeing where they come from, if they are Germans, Danes, Greeks and quotas. Because quotas for staffing in all European Union officials, because I have the data, go almost with gross domestic product and participation, but it is very important to see the quality of the positions taken, the high-paid positions and the positions affecting the decisions and laws of the European Union. There 85% are Germans. The'more Europe', as many colleagues have said, is a question which we want in Greece, because we have been very helpful and will be helped, as long as we have our fund in order. But we should be careful what will come in the future, because if decisions are taken away from the Greek Parliament it is something that should be of particular concern to us. A strong government decides for itself. Given that there is going to be a debate - and I predict that this debate will take place on the subject of last year's referendum, with the interview on Mr Galbraith's book, and all that is being done and will take place for reasons of surprise in the Greek Parliament and not for fundamental reasons - the essential question that I will ask all the Members of Parliament, but above all, to the colleagues of counter-population is one, if a government has to have a tough and strong negotiation - which I believe they have done themselves, but we have also made a plan B. The question is simple: Does it have to have plan B, yes or no? What Plan B will be is another matter. This has to be answered. If this question is answered, I think many other questions will be resolved. Secondly, very importantly, there has been a great debate on pensions and the ESS. By the way, I will leave you Mr. Hardouvelis' e-mail. I've discussed and noted the pension reform. It's all in English. The ESS has been decided to cut from 2015 and 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u100	Decrease.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u101	The "wipe out" in English means erasable. The 'phase out' means extinction, Mr Stakoura. I have the second analysis in the second part, which has to do with the integration of the funds and the elimination of the CSR since December 2014. I put it in the Minutes for anyone who wants to see it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like a second more, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u102	The bell says 'fade out', Mr Kammene.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u103	"Fade out" was a nice Metallica song.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u104	For the time I mean. It's erased.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u105	Thirty seconds more. I would also like to say that you are asking for a committee of inquiry to be set up. Personally, it would be my pleasure, but not politically, technologically negotiating, as an active citizen and as an active MEP, to take part in an examination of what was done last year. At the same time, I shall table my personal proposal. Because the President has called me quickly - I have her in my seat - I will bring her the question as soon as I get off the Step. I'd suggest a PSI exam. I propose it, I put it and I will put down some questions about the PSI, which I would like them to answer from the Opposition. Finally, I conclude by saying that I would very much like to thank the Chief of Officerial Opposition, Mr Mitsotakis, who has been engaged in negotiations in recent days. He's still alive. We should congratulate him on that. He has been to London, he has seen 'PIMCO', 'BLACKROCK', 'BLACKSTONE', 'SOROS FUNDATION', 'KKR'. He's seen all the big stores, the bad guys on the market. I should like to thank him for negotiating for the good of Greece. I would ask him, when he comes to Parliament, Mr President, firstly, to analyse what negotiations he has made, what proposals he has made, representing our country on the markets and the gentlemen I have said - we all know who they are. Secondly, he should tell us whether he proposed that the EUR 100 billion investment, which we all want, should come to this government or to its own. Because if he has told the outsides 'this is not a good government, but to bring me EUR 100 billion, when I come to the government', that is not a national policy. This is a humble personal populist policy. It's called populism in English. People'sism is not a national advantage and it is not a national sport. We'll either bring the investments now to save our homeland or we'll never bring them back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Cammene, in English we say enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u107	And when he talks with Paulson, who takes the red loans and denounces us who are managing the red loans, he should come as Chief of Staff of the Hellenic Parliament - because Mr. Tsipras did not go to see him either, and Mr. Mitsotakis went to tell us what he discussed with him, what he negotiated, what he said about his participation in "PIRAIOS", what he said about the management of the red loans, what the KR said, which will run EUR 1.3 billion in 'EUROBANK' and 'ALPHABANK', and see what his national role is. I am sure he will and I challenge him to come and answer how he negotiated for the good of Greece. No more populism! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u108	So do we. Mr Phillips has the floor for a brief legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u109	I'm making a legal improvement. We add qualifications for the selection of teachers and the clinical work for doctors, where necessary. In matters relating to the self-powered departments of the HRF, we insist on arrangements for the Special Educational Staff of the EDPS and the EIB to participate representatives. The question of student participation is a more general issue which does not concern these departments, so we refer it to an overall arrangement for universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Antoniou has the floor. The list of speakers has been closed. Mr Cavalella remains with special speakers and rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. The draft legislation before us relates to the Community budget made up of the contributions of the Member States. The decision will enter into force only after ratification by the countries of the European Union in accordance with Article 28 of the Constitution on the international treaties for Greece and the founding stone of the European Union integration. The new provisions will have retroactive effect as from 1 January 2014 in order to ensure a transition to the revised own resources system. The European Union's annual budget is about EUR 150 billion and over 90% of the European Union's revenue is redistributed to the Member States and serves to refinance the various common policies. The budget shall be within the limits set by the multiannual financial framework, which shall set the maximum annual amounts that the European Union may spend in various policy areas over a given period of time as follows: The European Commission submits the proposal for a budget, the European Parliament approves the proposal and follows the adoption by the national parliaments so that the proposal will become a budget for next year. The European Commission shall then inform the European Parliament and the Council of the way in which the budget has been allocated. The European Court of Auditors shall carry out a thorough audit of expenditure and whether the budget funds have been allocated in accordance with the rules and the European Parliament shall give its approval. The draft law we are debating today aims to ratify the Council Decision of the European Union 2014/335/EU on the own resources system of the European Union budget adopted at the Competitiveness Council meeting of 26 May 2014. The Council adopted the new own resources Decision providing for a number of changes, in particular with regard to the corrective mechanisms for the period 2014-2020. The Decision concerns the Union's own system of own resources which should ensure adequate resources for the proper development of the Union's policies. The arrangements laid down in the decision must ensure that no Member State may have an excessive budgetary burden on its relative prosperity for reasons of social equilibrium. The European Union, ladies and gentlemen, attaches great importance to improving the own resources system, and this is why in 2014 a high-level group was set up to propose improvements to the own resources system. The group will also draw up the proposal for a common system of financial transactions tax set up by the Council in September 2011 and aim to establish a common system for the taxation of financial transactions, with a view to applying for the 2014-2020 financial framework. The financial transaction tax could be a new European Union own resource to finance its policies. Everyone will benefit from this tax, thanks to additional public revenues that could be used to boost economic growth and prosperity in the European Union. The Member States will also benefit from this new source of revenue both in terms of the direct financing of their own budgets and in terms of reducing their contributions to the European Union budget. However, the tax has not been included in the 2014 decision that we have been discussing and has been continuing for three years in negotiations between the Member States of the European Union on the imposition of the tax on financial transactions. The Greek Government's position in the consultations is that the import procedures for this tax should be accelerated. The most important arrangements for the decision have been analysed by other rapporteurs and the relevant Commission, so I will not give you any extra time. I would like to say a few words about the case of Great Britain, which has a net contribution to the revenues of the European Union budget, and we must note that its departure from the European Union creates an important gap in the own resources budget, which needs to be covered. The way and procedure should be dealt with shortly by the competent institutions of the European Union in accordance with the evolution of the negotiations on the activation of Article 50 of the Treaty of Lisbon. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union today is at a critical crossroads. The European project and the idea of European integration have blurred in the eyes of many European peoples because of the austerity policies and strict budgetary discipline that undermines growth and increases unemployment and the insecurity of European citizens, especially in the low social strata. Fair growth requires social equilibrium, proportional distribution of wealth and burdens, not only horizontally between the Member States, but also vertically between the citizens of each country. This economic and social insecurity, unfortunately, seeks a way out to the extreme right, to racism and has fear of refugees and immigrants. Europe in the next few years must take serious decisions to strengthen growth, employment and social cohesion. Ladies and gentlemen, the outcome of the British referendum must concern us all. The response to the problems of the peoples of Europe is not a return to the status of national competitions and of national entrants, which have cost historically and have been paid with enormous catastrophes and rivers of blood. The answer to the question'more or less Europe?' It's simple for us. We want a better Europe, a common home of all the European peoples, a peaceful, democratic, solidarity. We want a Europe that strengthens social cohesion and fair growth, the benefits of which will be distributed to as many citizens as possible. The Community budget is a tool for achieving these objectives, while the provisions are binding on all States to serve the common purpose. If I have time, Mr President, I would briefly like to refer to Articles 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u112	Time is short.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u113	In any case, I would like to say that there are urgent and urgent issues which need to be regulated for the smoother functioning of the administration and which we are voting for. We are also voting in favour of today's amendments by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u114	Thank you. Mr. Cavalella has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President. Our participation in the European Union requires smooth cooperation in many areas of the economy, energy and science. The budget of the European Union shall be based on the contributions of each State, as appropriate. The State General Accounting Office in this bill tells us the exact amount we will give for the six years 2014-2020. That is EUR 12.5 billion. This financial contribution by 2020 if we take it in fragmentation, it will seem to be a great deal of money for our country's forces. This justification is used by some Eurosceptics both in Greece and throughout Europe to restore the usefulness of European cooperation. The truth, however, is that this contribution is considerably less than the economic benefits that our country will obtain in the corresponding period of time. As some voices have been heard in this committee too, I must now mention some specific elements that will substantiate the truth. Let us see only Greece's economic relations with the European Union in 2014: The European Union's total expenditure in Greece was EUR 7,095 billion. Total European Union expenditure as a percentage of Greek Gross National income was 3.98%. Greece's overall contribution to the European Union budget was about EUR 1.82 billion. Greece's contribution to the European Union budget as a percentage of the country's Gross National Income was 1.02%. In short, in only one year, we receive from the European Union what we give them in five years' time. And because people are already telling us that we are living in a German-led Europe that is taking advantage of us, I quote the corresponding economic data in the case of Germany: The total cost of the European Union in Germany was EUR 11,484 billion. Total European Union expenditure as a percentage of German Gross National income is minus 0.39%. Germany's total contribution to the European Union budget was EUR 25,816 billion. Germany's contribution to the European Union budget as a percentage of the country's gross national income is minus 0.87%. In 2014, namely, Greece won EUR 5.2 billion from the European Union, while Germany paid EUR 14.5 billion. On this point, however, it must be understood that the great powers of the European Union contribute to the European Union, not because they benefit directly from this action, but because they benefit from the cooperation of markets, science and society. In other words, when a strong country produces products and services, it is of interest to have many and easily accessible markets. In this case, 'EURATOM', good cooperation is the only way and only future of common European prosperity. Any adjustment of the contributions of Member States under the Euratom Treaty shall be made in accordance with the agreed rules and principles of the European Union. Where, for example, a contribution based on the GDP of each country has been agreed then, when this GDP is significantly reduced or increased, the contribution to the energy sector to the EURATOM should also be regulated. This, of course, extends to other areas of cooperation, but also to any other collective and Community effort. That is why adjustments were agreed for some countries in this bill, which we are in agreement with. Of course, we have a little more obligations in the Nordic countries. We'll have to see that. However, nuclear energy produces 35% of energy in the European Union. Some of the power plants - the ones that exist today - will also work for at least the next twenty years. So there is the known risk, from which, unfortunately, we have a bad experience in previous years. However, the general objective of the 'EURATOM' programme '14-18' is clear. We're talking about nuclear research, but also training. The aim is to continuously improve nuclear safety, protection and radiation protection, of course. The second attempt shall be made in the long-term process of removing carbon from the energy system in a safe and efficient manner. Nuclear energy is currently, as it is, a green energy with little environmental impact. However, strict rules must apply to implementation, and that is why the money we give EURATOM is spent on both direct and indirect actions. We will, of course, be interested in the safety of nuclear systems first. These actions also concern medicine. ‘EURATOM’ shall contribute to the development of medical applications, radiation, including, inter alia, the safe and protected supply and use of radioisotopes. The Union of Centres is in favour of promoting Community interests. The interest of the European Union is similar to that of Greece and we have to ratify this bill. As I have already pointed out in my previous speech, 'EURATOM' even provides for the setting-up of undertakings for the implementation of specific initiatives. These are of primary importance for the development of the nuclear industry in Europe. EURATOM is a conquest both at an energy and at an economic and development level and must unreservedly ratify this agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u116	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u117	I shall conclude, Mr President. I should have had seven minutes. There are some delays in the Greek Government, which are well known. We are asking without delay to proceed with the vote on the bill and other bills relating to the completion of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, too. We've been on the list of speakers, which is four, and they've had five minutes. Mr. Panagiotis Sponge has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. I would like, for my part, to welcome the legislative initiative by the Ministries of Culture, Economics and the Environment, which, with this amendment, resets the costs of road and overnight workers in the state theatres, the National Theatre and the State Theatre of North Greece. I had the opportunity to point out in my letter of 10-6 2016 to the Ministers for Culture and Finance that the workers - actors and technicians - of state theatres had suffered a flagrant injustice, which had arisen in the application of Law No.4336/2015 and as amended by Law No.4389/2016 to Articles 10 and 11 on reductions in road and public service expenditure. I believe that this proposed provision restores order. Actors and technicians work in a public body, such as a state theatre, but they are not civil servants. They have a very specific contract of three or five months and then they're back out at the free, private theater. Even the actors are not like any civil servant who goes on a mission for one or three days. They are months away from home and the forty euros provided for by the amended provisions have made impossible even for their lives. I mean, we have a bad experience of silky tactics in this place. And why am I saying it? Because the compensation is EUR 95, of the 112 euros it was. And I hope it will soon go to 112 euros again, and if we can, even if we can. We have the experience of the actress strike for the collective agreement in March 2013, where the New Democracy Government - PASOK abolished our collective agreement, which was 1200 euros. Then, I remember, the trade unionists on the side of the JRC did not accept the interim proposal of the PPP for EUR 800. The theatre techs accepted it. The actors did not accept it, with the result that 'or EUR 1200 or nothing', said by the trade unionists of the JRC, should be done. Because the contract fell, the actors are taken as maturers, with 3,5 euros an hour, 7 euros a show, without rehearsals. 'Everything or nothing', these results have.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u120	Did the JRC legislate?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u121	Yeah. Yeah, that was his attitude in S.H.I.E.L.D. It was his attitude at the assembly of HSY.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u122	Please, Mrs Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u123	I'm an actor, I'm abducted, and I'm fired. I know them a little better than you do. Listen to a working actor who fought, gave his battle, and even though he disagreed with 'or EUR 1200 or nothing', he supported it - because that was the majority, as recommended by the JRC - and we got nothing. We got 3,5 euros an hour, 7 euros a show.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u124	And now you're going to vote for the abortion?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u125	Yes, EUR 95 to get our colleagues to work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Darkness, you're not telling Mrs. Manolakou. You don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u127	I therefore consider this initiative by the Government to be important, and I call on all the governments of Parliament to vote in favour of it, because it was an arrhythmia which endangered the proper functioning of state theatres and did not meet the needs of the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u128	Mr Stavura, you have the floor. If you too can contribute to the economy of time, because we had set the twelfth as the time to conduct the information.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, my dear colleague Mr Kammenos said earlier that he must end populism and at the same time tabled a document which was supposed to be Mr Hardouvelis' e-mail, in which he said he said he was means of abolishing the CSCE. At the same time, as I said, he spoke about the end of populism. The document is false. On page 31, e-mail mentions specifically ‘ordinary rather than abrogation’. The reference to 'no abolition' is clear. At the same time, my colleague says: 'The end of populism'. Mercy! We are not making any difference when many Members of the government majority here built careers on populism. [[Applause]] At the same time, he talked about what the President of the New Democracy, the Chief of Police, told investors. It will allow me to tell him that I was present at all the meetings. There were serious discussions, objectively, with quantitative and qualitative indicators, the country's economic and political situation, he submitted his concerns about the budgetary policy mix being pursued and developed the New Democracy's proposals to achieve sustainable growth figures. These proposals are based on the implementation of structural changes, the implementation of demilitarisation, the strengthening of liquidity in the economy, the repayment of due debts, the forward use of Community funds, the clearing of assets and the strengthening of the liabilities of credit institutions. He has tabled proposals to reduce tax rates, through the strengthening of budgetary discipline, to find budgetary equivalents on the expenditure side, to reduce the medium- and long-term targets for primary surpluses and to strengthen the sustainability of public debt. These proposals are realistic, complete, which have been heard very carefully by all the interlocutors. Ladies and gentlemen, recent developments at European level, culminating in the outcome of the British referendum, must concern us. Europe is going through a difficult time. The structural and institutionally incomplete structure of economic and monetary integration, atmosphericity, emblematic responses to the economic crisis, fear of the waves of refugees and migrants, the demonstrable formation and bureaucratic functioning of the institutions of the European Union, the emergence in certain enforcement and dogma practices, the undimensional commitment to budgetary discipline, the gap of competitiveness, the fascination of the political rhetoric founded on populism, all of this has encouraged anti-Europeanism, Euroscepticism, nationalism, and have strengthened the risk of returning to protectionist and empowerment regimes. In the field of the economy, instability and uncertainty in the money and capital markets have been strengthened, business decisions have been postponed, and the rate of economic growth is beginning to bear. That is why Europe must, sincerely and calmly with soberness and realism, but above all with insight into it, make a brave self-criticism and proceed with serious decisions by creating and adopting a coherent European project that inspires peoples, by implementing the principles of the social market economy based on the harmonious association of budgetary stability and growth policies, by taking steps to strengthen competitiveness and fiscal harmonisation, by deepening the association in specific fields and sectors, such as security, defence, banking union with the guarantee of deposits, by coordinating budgetary policies and extending the Community budget. These are the necessary steps. Steps like today. And it is good that it comes to be ratified in the Greek Parliament at last, after the two-year margin has been exhausted, the Council's decision on the system of the European Union's own resources. This is a European legislative initiative, which focuses both on the rules for the allocation of the European Union's own resources to ensure the financing of the Union's annual budget and the categories of own resources and their specific methods of calculation. This is a positive initiative, launched in 2011. It was promoted and completed by the Greek Presidency in the first half of 2014 when the European Union budget portfolio was also held. The Greek Presidency then reached the unanimous political agreement at the end of January 2014 on the legislative package of own resources for the new period of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, which was adopted in April 2014 on the Greek Presidency by the plenary of the European Parliament. However, in the field of rationalisation - and I shall end in half a minute, Mr President - of the European Union's own resources system, then the Greek Presidency has proceeded with another step. Following on from this political commitment we have promoted through concrete actions and political agreements the establishment of a high-level group on own resources. The aim of this group is to review the system of own resources in order to make European Union funding more transparent, simple and fair, in order to ensure adequate resources for orderly implementation and development...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u130	Put a perfect one here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u131	..................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u132	So do we.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, I would like the floor for a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Friends has the floor for a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u135	Thank you. I'm making a legal improvement. It is more expressing on the subject of the proclamation and election of teachers at universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u136	Here, Mr. Panayotare, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Another ratification of European decisions with two years' delay. More delay you couldn't do, because that's where it's set. A penalty which actually obliges our country to pay EUR 12 billion out of our surplus. And here we laugh because we are in the sixth year of the memorials, burdensome situations and unpleasant experiences for the Greek people. And I do not need to read the inequalities resulting from this ratification between the countries of the South and the countries of the North. Our country is one of these countries, which will pay a higher percentage than the rich north. This shows that there is no solidarity of any kind in the European Union. We see that there is no proportionality. There is nothing that should be and should be the good news of the European Union. I would also like to comment on one year from the famous referendum and the proud 63% of the Greek people who said not to everything the SYRIZA - ANEL government the next, even though it had the approval of the Greek people to go into conflict with everyone and everything, did. And here we see the courage that the government's officials come out and speak of the people. The people did their duty. But you didn't do it and you've been in a worse position than those you accused of being in four all these years. You go dragging right now. You have raised the HNVIA, you have also lowered the minimum wage, the employment contracts, you have literally dissolved everything, you have sold everything out, you have done very easily all of what you have been accusing the previous PASOK - New Democracy government. And - as you say - you feel proud of all this. And we heard from someone earlier that the Greeks paid a heavy price with the referendum, with everything that had been said before and during the referendum. We have to answer that the Greek people have been paying a heaviest price since 2010 where we started entering the memoirs, a price which unfortunately has time. You could not do anything about it, even though you said the opposite and different things to the Greek people. You continue a practice which is completely wrong at the expense of the Greek people and in favour of our loan sharks and lenders. As for the comment on some of the faces that appear in the European Union, such as Farage, Lepense and others, we have to say that these faces together with our own Golden Dawn faces here in Greece and other nationalists across Europe and Eurosceptics are awakening peoples so that we do not go to a total death, to a total destruction of European peoples and homelands. We'll talk a little bit about hypocrisy. I'll talk about another face, that of the president of the Socialists in Spain, Mr. Pedro Sanchez. He had gone well to visit refugees and illegal immigrants. He shook their hand and then put alcohol and various disinfectants to see the hypocrisy of the socialists. You've been hypocrites for a lifetime! As for the referendum in Britain, it was the first hit on this vicious and dirty European Union that works solely for the benefit of bankers. And - if you want - to fight - because we have heard various words and the current ratification - unemployment and bring growth, you will certainly not let hundreds of thousands, millions of immigrants in our home country, not with the storms, continuing and still will be able in any way to grow, nor with the nationally produced monuments, nor with the rotating work that you are rejoicing because some people work one hour a day, one week and they are not counting on the unemployed and you say that 'we are improving the unemployment indicators'. And someone wondered where we'd find new resources. We will certainly not find new resources - such as Mr Katrugalos, who referred to the CSCE entirely hypocritically said that we should find equivalents from somewhere - of equivalents. The equivalents you have exhausted, you have finished them, nothing can be done. And Mr. Kammenos, the President of the Independent Greeks, when voting for reductions and cuts to the military said that this is not the case and we will find the equivalents. And Mr. Juliarakis made him a liar just the day before yesterday, saying that they haven't been there so far and that no equivalent has been filed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I too will be allowed two minutes to continue. A real development will bring about an improvement in the economy of our country, but also of the whole of Europe, which is the same as the primary production and protectionism of the products of our country and of Greek workers against the latitude of the various imported, especially from third countries. Faith in the skills of the governors. It is something that you do not have, and that is why you sell these fillets which have earned profits - most of those you sell with great ease - and with good management could pay much more revenue to the state corps for the benefit of Greek citizens. And we saw only yesterday that Mr. Tsipras made the same statements, which Mr. Samaras had made when he visited China, saying about the greatness and that hundreds of Greek shipowners were built in China. But the cheek would be to build even one in a Greek shipyard of these shipyards which you excluded from this false development law and which you do not give any incentive to the Greek shipbuilding industry. We want the Christian Europe of homes, peoples, nations with particular borders, with the traditions and peculiarities of every nation and every nation. We do not want the Europe of the bankers, we do not want the Europe of the fucked-up tacos, we do not want the Europe of the distrasse cords, which you present to us as investors, we do not want the Europe of the stateless, the underprivileged, we do not want the Europe of the mules, the flesh and the bourgeoisie. We want a great Greece in a free Europe and we will continue to fight to the end of victory. Clearly, we are voting against this ratification and we are voting against all four amendments which, apart from the ridiculousness of what all the previous speakers have said, are irrelevant to this draft law. There is only one article in 510/98, which is of interest, but because the rest have no interest and we consider them harmful, we will not vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u138	So do we. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-nine migrant children and eleven attendants from the Social Care Centre. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Mavrotas has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u139	I will not need more than three to four minutes, Mr President. I will refer only to the ministerial amendment tabled last afternoon by the Ministry of Education. An amendment which was ready since 1 July, as it appears from the signatures and Mrs Anagnostopoulou just before she left for China, was tabled last afternoon - I don't know - perhaps in order to surprise us. However, today Mrs Anagnostopoulou, who is responsible for higher education, is not here to give us the necessary clarification, and I note this. Because this amendment refers to the fact that the IGC members have evolved. There is a ministerial amendment to correct a parliamentary amendment tabled about a month and a half ago. And that is only an honor to the government's legislative work. A process, the elite bodies and all of this, which has too many details and should have come under normal procedures, namely, to speak to the committee, to listen to the bodies and to reach the best solutions to this issue. Also, what I would like to say about this amendment and the selective bodies is that we see only positively the fact that you are reintroducing the information system an abstract to the development of the IPA members, at least that is what it suggests. Unfortunately, the Minister is not here to assure us of this. The second thing I would like to mention is the arrangements for the Greek Open University. There is a fundamental change in the term "teaching" with the term "economic participation of students" and very curiously we would like to hear what the difference between the two is unless the concept of tuition is inconsistent with left aesthetics, and that is why we are changing it in a new language, in a new spirit. In relation to the regulations for the National Scholarship Foundation, I would like to point out that, if I understood correctly - because we only have the amendment in our hands for a few hours - the pool of students who will receive a scholarship is substantially expanded. Of those who were more than 8.51, i.e. those who took them perfectly, they will also be broadened to those who are'very well'. This will result in a shrunk amount that the IKH has at its disposal to share in much more people, thus ultimately benefiting the concept of scholarship. To conclude, I would like to say that we are calling for the withdrawal of this amendment, at least the postponement of its statement, so that it can come with the bill for the Greek Institute of Research and Innovation of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, which will pass by consultation and will come in the next few weeks. If this amendment is to come there, it should be discussed in committee, because, as the legislative work comes, the Greek universities are also wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much, Mr Mavrotha, for handling time. Let's see if Mr. Kegeroglu will compete with you. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. I shall confine myself to the amendments which we have tabled and which concern two very important issues which concern society. However, the relevant ministers, in particular the Minister for Rural Development, have also been submitted on a number of occasions, in order to be placed on them all the time before. He did the same today. He came, talked about the amendments he tabled to his ministry, but he left. It has not been left to answer why it proposes a provision for valuers, for example, of the ELGA, which does not solve the problem. So why does it propose a provision which costs more than what our amendment proposes and certainly does not solve the problem? That's not what Kegeroglu says, it's not what the Maniotis or the MPs say, it's not even what the workers say, it's what ELGA's administration says. The administration of the ELGA, the appointed administration by the Ministry of Rural Development yesterday, regrets that a provision is being promoted which is more costly and less effective. To take the bus, ELGA's valuer, to go at 10 or 11 o'clock to the cephalopod and from the cephalopod to take a taxi, and if there is no taxi, to take any scaffolding to take him or anything else is a terrible proposal from the Ministry of Rural Development. Let him come in and answer us where he stumbles and does not adopt the proposal that has come from the administration of the ELGA, which we have tabled as an amendment. We have not tabled our own proposal of the ELGA administration. What makes Mr. Apostle not to resolve the matter? I think he should be invited to come to the Chamber and be placed. At the moment in a prefecture there are fifteen thousand uncontrolled cases in relation to estimates to be made on the spot. They're getting more and more. However, this is a loss for producers and for the rural economy. They cannot cultivate the new growing season because of this inability of ELGA and assessors to do their job. We therefore call for the Minister for Rural Development to come to the Chamber and place himself on the amendment, which is essentially the administration of the ELGA, which we have tabled. The second amendment concerns a major issue which concerns farmers and farms, but also all businesses. In fact, yesterday's press took place first. Why? Because it is a real problem for society. Due to the delays that have occurred in fulfilling the State's obligations to private individuals, which can also be listed in the rural area, which relate to compensation, subsidies, subsidies or refunds to oil, there has unfortunately been a weakness in keeping with the hundreds of doses of those who had joined them. In this sense, we have tabled an amendment giving the right to recover the right to set a hundred instalments, since the person who lost it pays the dues. Nothing thanks to anyone. We are giving him the right where the state is inconsistent, where the state has caused the recession, where the state is causing the padlocks, where the state is causing this situation on the market and does not let people operate and keep the arrangements that they have entered - because they wanted to get in - to be okay in their obligations towards the Greek State, as regards the tax place and the insurance funds. It will benefit both the insurance funds and the public, because it will receive money immediately. It will receive all that has not been paid in the previous period and will be paid retrospectively, and we will of course then have the service of the hundreds of doses. I'll only tell you the number and I'll close. Of the thirty thousand who joined the insurance fund arrangements, today only fifty-five thousand comply with them. Well, then, the Ministry must see this and Mr Katrugalos, who is responsible, must also see Mr Alexiades or Mr Juliarakis from the Ministry of Finance and accept this amendment - regulation, which we have tabled. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-eight students from the International Centre for Greek and Mediterranean Studies of the University of San Diego. We warmly welcome them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. The parliamentary desperation created by this kind of legislation - I referred to the beginning of today's sitting, not to repeat them - legalises the proposals and thoughts of those who want to propose, if we go to a revision of the constitution, a second legislative body. Do not take the heart lightly on this matter. Slightly thought of the heart of parliamentarians, we are organizing our opposite. You should realize that. Mr. Friends brought in last week's amendment - a mini draft law. It repeats it one week later and brings changes - and now here - as supposedly legal improvements to half a page. We cannot help the legislative work. Mr President, one question. The draft law Friendly - because this is what this is about - is signed by the relevant Deputy Minister, Mrs Anagnostopoulou, who, however, is in China and I remember it on Thursday night. If he had signed before he left, why has this legislative intervention not been filed since then? Are we kidding here? Are we kidding? Don't say anything else, how the signature came in. However, if it were prepared, as has been shown logically by parliament, so that we do not get through to the alchemys, why did this amendment not come forward in a timely manner? Are these matters that it regulates, which are not of interest? Ladies and gentlemen, do you know that scholarship conditions are changing from IKH? Instead of 'excellent' plus social criteria for anyone he wants, we go to 'big good'. Does that remind you of Balta? Balta reminds us. Is that your honor? You know that, first of all? Do you know that the election of a professor at the university by a prosecuting body with eight votes in eleven now wants six in eleven? Do you like it? Do you know that you're amending your May law? Do you know that you are abolishing the post of general secretaries of universities without setting out what will replace them for the interim period until you bring in a new arrangement? Do you know that? That's what you're going to vote on. Our hand will not put it in place, and if some of Mr. Friends' regulations are correct, it should emerge through parliamentary dialogue and be allowed to contribute to us as well. While you're bringing these, you haven't yet been relied upon to bring what we're telling you. I hadn't been there because of the fall of the previous government. The law was ready, signed. Do you know that if someone is convicted of a sentence of forty-five days in prison, she's being fired by the University? He's fired! And it is very reasonable for some of the offences to take off at six months. Do you know we've been talking to the ministry for five months and a gentleman is stopping this? Why don't the process come into its right base at last? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to something that the Minister of Education said at the end of his speech and I think he deserves a comment today at the National Representation. It's a political matter of great grief. He mentioned the referendum last year. I will not say to him that the alchemy of 'no' made 'yes' does not honor him. I'll tell him something else. Mr. Philly, he saw Mr. James Galbraith's publicity book. You'll keep that in mind. His title is "Welcome to the martial arena". In this reference is made to Government Tsipras' plan Tsipras since March 2015, as Galbraith tells us. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the measures of Plan B were the closure of banks, the promises for wages and pensions, the declaration of the country in an emergency, the nationalisation of banks and the recruitment of civil servants etc. Did you keep them in mind? You know that you didn't tell the Greek people? Do you know that for a Minister under Article 152 of the Criminal Code this is a violation of competence, a felony? If these are not discussed by a parliamentary committee of inquiry - and we have proposed that they should be included in the euro and then - who will discuss them? Journalists and MPs outside Parliament? Our proposal must be accepted. You must feel a minority that we are taking part in the committees of inquiry that you set up and which you have not even brought in the other proposals for a debate in this House. That's not good enough, Mr. President. We have two ministers - now government ministers - to say on a television show the other day that Varoufakis is not the ones of plan B. Varoufakis introduced folding in February 2015. It is the one who chose a European path. The Barofalis! How does he receive this command in March 2015? If we believe Kotzia and Papa, then Varoufakis had a line that you followed from the referendum and then another commanded him to go instead and prepare plan B, with what Galbraith says. Is that what politicians will say outside Parliament, Mr President? That is what the committee of inquiry has to say. As the Minister for Education, the amendment tabled - and not an amendment - is proposing to this House the views it has put forward, you can also hear those views, which are the views shared by the vast majority of the Greek people in July 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u145	Can you give it back to the loan?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u146	Don't give up on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u147	You don't talk about them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u148	Please, Mr. Simorelli. Mr. Brutsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the framework of the Agreement at Member State level of the European Union on the system of own resources of the European Union. As the rapporteur has said, the position of the new Republic is positive. We are voting for the agreement. After all, it was our proposal, which comes within the limits of the two years that it takes and is defined by the Rules of Procedure. But it is a day on which political events, due to the anniversary of the referendum - fraud, make our National Parliament, the National Representation, open this matter. For at the moment, ladies and gentlemen, our country and the Greeks are amazed every day by the constant revelations, revelations that are taking place on one side, revelations on which the New Democracy has asked for a committee of inquiry, revelations on which, as the President of Parliament said, the issue will be opened up after a new démarche by the New Democracy. I hope it does not open in August and open very soon, so that it does not hide as a major issue concerning the Hellenic Republic, during the summer holidays. At present, however, the Minister, Mr Juliarakis, would like to say this because Mr Juliarakis was also a Minister at that time. He was present in the planned and drunken undermining of the Republic of the Democratic Republic, through the so-called 'PLAN B', written by Galbraith, Counsellor of Varoufakis, so SYRIZA - ANEL at that time, so also by Mr Juliarakis, who, indirectly and clearly, says that the banks will close, that wages and pensions will be paid with promises, that banks will be nationalized and that there will be public servants' recruitment. It is no coincidence that Mr. Tsipras also visited the Ministry of National Defence two days before the referendum, meeting Mr. Kammenos, where we heard the notorious, unacceptable, the only thing that SYRIZA's political sensitivity, democratic sensitivity, oppressed invincible, that the Army is ready to apply internal balance, to apply peaceful procedures within the country. All of this is open challenges to the political system and the Greek citizens, who now, as you know and experience every day, have turned your back. Because they saw not only the great fraud of the referendum, but also the real fraud in everything that you promised, which now come in their pockets inextricably. After the first wave of 2015 reductions - 2% in main pensions, 6% in subsidiarys, the abolition of the EUR 486 minimum pension, incredible analgesia - within 2016 - comes to be implemented, in a new environment with total lies to collapse after the other, the new policy, the irreversible policy of the SYRIZA, which abolishes the EASA, reduces supplementary pensions and then reduces the main pensions of new pensioners from 10% - 30%. At the same time, the cuter is sharpening his teeth, as, as we know, if the budgetary targets, which appear to be unsuccessful, he will immediately reduce pensions and the current pensioners. Of course, the taxes, the appalling taxes on the islands of all Greeks, the increase in VAT, are for you personally, Mr Minister of Finance, but also for the financial staff, a great shame on the deception of the Greek people and the painful measures you have brought to it. However, I would like to say two three things, which I consider to be important in order to clarify our relationships and restore the truth. A moment ago, a member of the majority of the government tried to falsify the truth and mislead the National Parliament, which was supposed to be the result of the abolition of the CSCE. These are the texts it has submitted. I requested them a moment ago, and I got them. Do you know what texts these are? It's forgery. Plastics in relation to what he said. They're the non papers of Maximus.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u150	He's been filed...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u151	Non paper by Maximos deposited instead of e-mail Hardouvelis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u152	The e-mail Hardouvelis is over forty pages. Put the whole body down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u153	I therefore hold in my hands on page 31 of the E-mail Hardouvelis, which I will submit to clarify to the Greek people what the reality and the truth are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u154	The body to testify, not the page.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u155	Stop being liars. You'll be chased by low pensioners for the big lie and the lack of sensitivity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u156	You are insulting Parliament. You should testify the entire body of the text.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u157	So it says the e-mail Hardouvelis, which I personally had, on page 31 for the ESS - I submit it for the Minutes too, to take it to end this particular issue - 'not its abolishment', i.e. 'not abolish'. Please distribute to all SYRIZA and ANEL Members to see the reality. And above all, the Greek people must see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u158	All the body deposit, not the page.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u159	In e-mail Hardouvelis there was no abolition of the ESS. There was his streamlining. It's clearly written. There were no painful measures. The amount of insurance contributions was EUR 310 million, which you made EUR 3.1 billion. This is the footprint of the SYRIZA - ANEL account, which today pays as a result of populism and demagogy the Greek people as a whole. And the end of this, what it is causing from yesterday's receipt - because we are also citizens, and I represent an island prefecture, a county which has been deceived, the Cyclades Prefecture, like the whole Aegean Sea - is the abolition of VAT. Do you know what I'm collecting? Yesterday, Mr. Katrugalos had the nerve, swinging the finger to the Greek people, to say that he will return the CSCE with compensatory measures. Well, who are you kidding? Minister of Finance, can this be done? Today, have you abolished the CSCE, which will be by the end of December, and will you give compensatory compensation? I would remind you that you have promised the islanders the same thing, that once the special VAT system has been abolished, you will reintroduce lost VAT to the citizens by means of a mechanism to be made by this tax declaration. Is there anything wrong? I see islanders among us in SYRIZA MPs. Didn't it happen and we didn't find out?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Brutsi, put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u161	The definition of deception. Because the lies are short legs, I have tabled these texts to the House. Finally, tell the truth. In any case, I think you are collecting the truth from the Greek people, who now has turned your back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u162	Mr. Amyras has the floor from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are faced with another sluggish monument in terms of co-legislation. Last night the Minister of Education, Mr. Friend, tabled a ministerial amendment with which he corrected, changed a parliamentary amendment, which had been accepted, had become a state-law just a month ago. In other words, this government is making legislation. It is urgently legislating and urgently modifying what is urgently legislated. This is not a serious parliamentary procedure. Of course, if the bet and the effort of the government are to expose the President of the Parliament, who a week ago in the debate on the Rules of Procedure of the House, he said that pressing legislature must now remain behind us, he must probably have done it. So we in Potami sat down and calculated the percentages on the ministerial amendments and the Members of Parliament who were accepted - mainly overdue and off-the-spot and related to the draft law under discussion at every time - and found that 80% of the ministerial amendments come to correct, to change legislation, to which Parliament came after other amendments, namely, a mill. I am sorry that the Minister for Education is not here because I have two essential questions to ask him about the night ministerial amendment. I would like to ask him about the matter of the RESULTS system, which reverts - why then was abolished a month ago? - and also on the issue of scholarships. Ladies and gentlemen, this is very important. Mr. Friend took the dog from Mr. Baltas and what's he doing? He says that in scholarships he leaves 8.51% as a point of view, so that he can claim the scholarship through IKY, on the basis of the social criteria and take it to the "very well". So I ask: Does excellence change name and formality? Tell us - these are the things I wanted to ask the Minister, but is there not going to increase the amount of scholarships or not? Does it just do so to satisfy as many students as possible? What is the idea - to say this - of this kind of change and from 'excellence' to 'broadcut' for scholarships? The Minister also mentioned, speaking of the referendum, that it is the Greek people's last refuge, whether we like the result or not. That's what Mr. Friend said. So I ask you fellow Members of all parties: are you proud? Are you satisfied that you changed the 63% 'no' and did it 'yes'? Why don't you keep a silence, a modesty, but go out and celebrate why did you turn 'no' into 'yes'? I do not even want to have in mind what dialogue we would have had here if the former President of Parliament, Mrs Constantopoulos, were present. However, since Mr Juliarakis is here, Minister, I would like to ask you the following question: in view of the recovery of the EUR 2.8 billion substation after the September Eurogroup, I would like you to say to me: There is a delay or not in the transfer of 5% of OTE to TEAD. What will the procedures be? Please, if you please, let us know, as well as the timetable. And one more thing: What about work? We read that you will bring them in the first or the last week of August, when people will probably be on the beaches. Explain what is the road map for the new change of industrial relations in the country's economic landscape? Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the general secretaries of universities are concerned, we cannot understand why you are now pressing on with the changes by ministerial amendment and you are not expecting the internal regulations and bodies to be passed at universities first. That's the physical process. That's how you respect the university self-interest. However, it is another indication of how much this government is dealing with serious issues. It is an indication of how the government proposes its party interest and the sharing of its party customers, rather than looking wider, to seek consensus, of course having its mind on what is happening to the rest of the world. We must stop being an enclosed country socially and politically and open our wings to the rest of the world, now that at this time, more than ever, the Greeks need it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall end. In any case, I would like to say to you that the ministerial amendments on night's parliamentary amendments are a serious sign of weakness. It is a lack of legislation, it is a lack of parliamentary respect for the procedures, and above all it is a strange attitude towards the citizens. Citizens learn at night what measures are taken, which concern them. By addressing the ministerial seats, I would tell you to follow the path of excellence, not even the 'greatly well' which you have equated with the 'excellency'. And in any case, you should know that we will not sit silent when you bring unorthodox regulations that are at the expense of Greek citizens and Greek society in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, too. Mr. Juliarakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, I would like the floor for half a minute before the Minister's position, to refer to the amendments. We cannot talk about the amendments tabled this evening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u166	Mrs Manolakou, I have accepted our request and the debate has been widened. Based on your request. Mr. Juliarakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u167	Wait a minute. I want the floor. I cannot talk about the amendments that came last night.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u169	All right, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u170	The Minister has not kept his word. There were amendments last night and he had promised that he would not accept any more. Secondly, these are the amendments on which the world must be informed and the parties to adopt a position. We cannot, let us say, bring in an amendment which mocks, misled, abolishes the ministry's service and sets up the carpet to control and evaluate investments by individuals and not place ourselves on board. Nor can we respond to positions such as Mr Skouriakou, who praises the violation of the collective agreements between actors with the towel of road haulage. Eventually, his attitude is very agonistic! For all of this, we must be placed in the same position as we are on the Ministry of Education's amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u172	Mr. Maniotis, you have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, because there was obviously some misunderstanding, as a special speaker, I would ask you to give me two minutes, not more, to place myself on the amendments we have tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u174	Please, Mr. Maniotis. You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u175	It would be incomprehensible to have tabled amendments and not to give me the floor for two minutes to document...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u176	For a minute, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u177	Two minutes, please. Mr President, I repeat what we have said at the beginning. Our amendment on the possibility of reintegrating those without their responsibility, but with the sole responsibility of the state, were not included because they owe either the tax authorities or the insurance institutions, we believe that it is perfectly logical, since the reality itself says that from the hundreds of thirty-five thousand originally joined, they have succeeded and continued only fifty-five thousand. Therefore, without any cost at all, and in order for the Greek State to collect, we believe that the extension of the possibility of being reinstated on the basis of our amendment will be in the interest of society as well as of public revenue. The second point relates to something unthinkable. It's never happened to me before. It is tabled by the Minister for Rural Development that an amendment on the movements of ELGA valuers - which are tens of thousands of farmers throughout Greece who are waiting for the assessors to go to the fields and see what is done with the compensation - and the administration of ELGA - I shall submit for the record the administrative document, not a trade union body - disagrees and says that the Minister's amendment will bear multiple costs than is currently in place. [[At this point, a Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Our proposal, therefore, tabled with an amendment, is to accept the proposal from the administration of the ELGA so that the valuers and the Greek state can be won immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr. Maniot.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u179	I shall conclude, Mr President. I think it is incomprehensible what is happening with Mr Philly's amendment. I will only comment on one issue that has to do with aesthetics. Mr President, precisely because there is little money for the Greek State, IKY scholarships are very little and we only give them to those who have more than 8.5. Mr Philis, without saying that 'I will increase the budget of the IKY scholarships', lowers this figure to 6.5 in the'very well'. We have here, in other words, a logic 'Balta'. My question, ladies and gentlemen, is this acceptable and how will the evaluation of a much larger number of students benefit when the money is much less?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u180	Mr. Maniotis, please put your perfection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u181	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u182	You have misunderstood my tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u183	The same applies to university general secretaries, who will remain without administration. One final, Mr President, which concerns both Mr Juliarakis and Mr Tsironi, but clearly concerns the current Minister, Mr Tsironi. There are tens of thousands of businesses throughout the country suffering from residential control zones. I have tabled an amendment to extend the regime now in existence until it is legally regulated by the Government so that it does not have to relocate to Argolida, Volos, Iannina, Heraklion, Patras and other areas of the country, which have residential areas, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are not to blame and cannot be relocated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u184	Good. End of questioning! Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. I think I'm gonna need less than three minutes. First of all, I would like to comment on Mr Stakoura's position. We undoubtedly consider it positive that the Chief of Staff Responsibility will inform international investors of their positions. I hope that along with the presentation of the positions of Officer Mitsotakis will also inform investors of the new environment of stability that the Greek economy is now inspiring and of the new investment opportunities that are being created. But even if he doesn't do it himself, he'll be sure we do the same work every month. Next week I will be in London to see exactly the same investors, but without picking up the fuss that Mr. Mitsotakis raised with such a visit. I would, however, like to see the positions he has made known to international investors, too, to us, and to know exactly what he says about a number of issues that have so far remained vague, but that the Greek people, who have so far had no clear picture of these positions. I will return to the main issue and would ask the House to vote in favour of the draft law to ratify the decision on the European Union's own resources system. This is essentially a periodic adoption of the European budget financing system, which covers a very wide range of issues. There is no doubt that the size of the budget is very low. We'd like and we're struggling to be quite higher. There is also no doubt that we would like to have a very strong dimension of anti-cyclical fiscal policy, which is currently missing - if you like - automatic stabilisers, for example, unemployment benefits at European level or other transfers of payments. This is extremely important, especially for a country like Greece, a European region that has experienced a 'asymmetric shock', according to economists, which is the same and not the rest of Europe, and therefore the only instrument for stabilisation, monetary policy, cannot be effective. Nevertheless, we consider a very positive step in the vote on today's bill and again call on the House to vote on it. I would like to say a few words about comments that have been made on the amendment to the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - PIMMAR on the issue of the hundreds of doses. First of all, it is a question that we see positive. Do not forget that the 100-dose arrangement was legislated by the Left Government a year ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u186	Wrong!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u187	Wrong! The arrangement was adopted in September 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u188	In fact, it was then considered a unilateral energy, and you struck us for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u189	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u190	On the other hand, it is impossible to build - and I would like you to take note of this - a reliable system of revenues and to establish tax awareness when appropriate regulations exist every year. For example, the credibility of a currency cannot be established when it is underestimated every year. In the same way, a reliable tax system cannot be established, where every year there are arrangements for those who do not consistently comply with their tax obligation. What kind of motive would anyone have to be consistent when he knows that every one of these arrangements is in place? A better balance should therefore be found between the effects of the recession on the ability of households and businesses to pay tax on the one hand and, if you like, on the other. The amendment tabled by the PASOK - DIMAR fails to achieve this optimal balance. We have a positive attitude. We see it and we'll come back. Finally, I want to say a few words - because they have heard incredible inaccuracies - about Galbraith's book. First of all, it was heard that he was advisor to Mr. Juliarakis. Mr Brutsis, in February - August 2015 I was Chairman of the Economic Expert Council and head of the technical negotiation between April and August 2015. Mr Galbraith had absolutely no institutional position and - be careful - I have never been, despite the fact that I was in charge of the technical negotiation, nor in a meeting with Galbraith present. Who's Mr. Galbraith?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u191	That's what we're asking. Who is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u192	First of all, what he says is unbelievable philosophies and unexplained vigilances by a man who had absolutely no institutional position. But I would very much like him to tell us - why does he not tell it in a book of two hundred fifty pages - who took part in what meetings, when he had absolutely no contact with the institutional structure of the negotiation from April to August 2015? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u193	What are you talking about? That's what Mr. Tsipras said here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is adjourned: ‘Repeal of Council Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom on the system of the European Union's own resources and other provisions’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u195	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u196	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u197	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u198	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u199	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u200	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u201	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u202	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u203	Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Definition of Council Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom on the system of the European Union’s own resources and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u204	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u205	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u206	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u207	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u208	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u209	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u210	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u211	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u212	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the second paragraph as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u213	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u214	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u215	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u216	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u217	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u218	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u219	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u220	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u221	The second paragraph of Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 3 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u222	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u223	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u224	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u225	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u226	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u227	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u228	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u229	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u230	The third paragraph of Article 3 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number of 530 and a special number 103, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u231	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u232	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u233	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u234	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u235	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u236	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u237	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u238	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u239	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 530 and a special 103 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment acceptable under a general number of 531 and a specific 104 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u240	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u241	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u242	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u244	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u246	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u248	So the amendment under general number 531 and a special 104 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u249	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u250	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u251	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u252	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u253	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u254	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u255	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u256	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u257	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Definition of Council Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom on the system of the European Union’s own resources and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and on the articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u258	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u259	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u260	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u261	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u262	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u263	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u264	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u265	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u266	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Definition of Council Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom on the system of the European Union’s own resources and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, on the articles and the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u267	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u268	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u269	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Today is the election of Vice-President of the Greek Parliament. Following the elections of 20 September 2015, in the election of Vice-Presidents, on 4 October 2015, he was not elected Vice-President from the third to a power of Parliamentary Group of Vice-Presidents. Recently, following the amendment of Parliament's Rules of Procedure with the CVP 122 A'/30-6-2016 and in accordance with Article 6, as amended, the provision reads as follows: ‘If the Vice-President is not elected in one of the intended positions, he shall, if elected, take the position, if elected, from the fifth to the Parliamentary Group of the Opposition and, if not elected, from the sixth Parliamentary Group of the Opposition Parliamentary Party and so on, in which case the series of Vice-Presidents shall be redefined in accordance with the power of Parliamentary Groups.’. This arrangement is in its first application immediately applicable. Therefore, the subject of today's special agenda is the election of a Vice-President in one of the intended posts, in accordance with Rule 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, as amended by the Rules of Procedure 122 A/30-6 2016. The vote shall be taken by ballot and shall be secret. You have been distributed a list with the name of the rapporteur for the post of Vice-President. There are also white lists. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been tabled by the President of the Potamian Parliamentary Group to the President of the Parliament, on the basis of the text of which the nomination of MP I of Athens Mr Spyridon Lykoudi is made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u270	The lists that have been shared have the name of Mr Spiros Lykoudis, as there is, of course, a white ballot, perhaps another preference. The list will be delivered, and anyone who hears his name will come and cast the ballot in the ballot. On the list, Mr Panagiota Dritellis from SYRIZA and Mr Apostolos Vesyropoulos from New Democracy is called on the list. Mr Georgios Psychogios from SYRIZA and Mr Athanasios Kavadas from New Democracy are also called on to vote as voters. The committee is chaired by Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis. I would ask the voters to come to the ballot so that the vote can begin. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, Members have been sent to the Bureau for participation in the secret ballot of the Vice-President. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the following count. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u271	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The sealed letters, which were sent to the Bureau for participation in the secret ballot on the election of Vice-Chairman of the Greek Parliament in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u272	The vote is adjourned and I would ask the chairman of the Committee of Inquiry and the electorate to carry out the counting and sorting of the ballots and the export of the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u273	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the secret vote in this House. A total of 211 Members voted. In favour of the Vice-President's office, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 186 MPs. White: 25. Cancel: 0. Therefore, Mr Spyridon Lykoudi, according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, is elected as Vice-President of the Parliament in a position that has not been met and redefined as the series of Vice-Presidents, in line with the power of the parliamentary groups, as follows: Mr Anastasios Kourakis as First Vice-President, as he was, Mr George Bordent as the second Vice-President, as Mrs Anastasia Christodoulopoulos as the third Vice-President, as he was, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis as the fourth Vice-President, as they were, and the remaining ones are listed. On the basis of the result, in the vacant post, Mr. Spyridon Lykoudis as Z' Vice President, Mr. Dimitrios Kremastinos as V Vice President and Mr. George Lambroulis as F' Vice President. This supplements the Bureau. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the minutes of today's sitting with regard to the election of the Vice-President of the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u274	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-06-S1-commons.u275	With the consent of the House at 14.00 noon the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 7 July 2016 at 9.30 p.m. on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, a topical and urgent debate.
