ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the legislative agenda, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured to the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERYRIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-six students and students and three educational attendants from the Experimental Gymnasium of Kozani. Welcome to the House and a good weekend in Athens. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Measures to speed up governmental work and other provisions". The procedure I propose to you, after consulting the President of Parliament, is this: although we said yesterday that only the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives will speak today, because only about half of the Members were able to speak yesterday, I say, at least until 11.30 p.m., with fellow speakers, while reducing the time from seven minutes to five. From that point on, if the Heads of State or Government start - I say 'if', because even the President of the Parliament has been officially informed at the moment whether the Heads of State or Government are going to speak as usual. Otherwise, after 11.30 minutes, we will pass on to the rapporteurs and special speakers, as we agreed yesterday, the Heads of State or Government, who have not spoken - when they come, we will reach agreement with them - and after the speeches of the Heads, the meeting will be closed with the positions of the parliamentary representatives of the parties, as we promised yesterday. If, above all, the heads of our parties stick to the timetable provided for in the Rules of Procedure, I hope that, at the latest at 17 a.m., we will be done with the end of the speech and of the last parliamentary representative. I therefore have your agreement, first of all, to start with colleagues and, if necessary, to make a change in the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u2	Therefore, the first colleagues to speak - and if anyone is not in the Chamber, please let him know - are Mr Thivaeus, Mr Pratsolis, Mr Tsirkas, Mr Famelos enters Mr Mitafidis - then Mr Simorellis and Mr Kikilis have consulted each other. This is the first six. I think the whole first six is in the Chamber. So we can start with our first colleague, Mr. Nikolaos Thebeau. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate which has taken place so far in the committees and in the plenary, in which the time allocated to this bill is almost zero, is really very interesting. We have heard about the government that it is incapable, that it has to do with all the workers, that it is the fault of expanding the refugee and perhaps even the war in Syria, for attempts to create a party state and go by saying. For the bill, there is no talk or rather a clear attempt to degrade, to depreciate a bill that, apart from regulating a number of issues in a represenutive direction, clearly has a positive social person, solving problems in the field of health, education, for the benefit of the weaker economic strata of society. Let us see, ladies and gentlemen, some truths and some lies that arise through this debate on the bill. In the public health sector, was there a health coverage for uninsured people? On paper, yes, in practice no. That is what all uninsured people, who have been faced with the obstacles to bureaucracy, supporting documents, pre-approvals by tripartite committees, particularly insecure cancer patients. Today the uninsured with AMKA will have full medical care, as well as free laboratory tests in public structures. In the field of public education, were there any supportive teaching and additional support for high school and high school pupils in the past five years? On paper, yes, in practice no. So far, the few hours of supportive teaching have been the ones that have come to complete the hours of permanent teachers. Today's bill ensures the functioning and programs of compensatory education, as well as the way of staffing and supplementing with working-time teachers. At the same time, the service of teachers will be calculated as a pre-service for their integration into the lists of alternates. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, thousands of secondary schoolchildren, mainly from poor and popular, will have an additional support from the public school. In the field of self-government, with the Law 4093/2012 there was an embargo on recruitment for all branches and specialities, without meaning that it was not objectively the problems. However, few measures have not been taken. Today, we come with this bill to exclude recruitment and appointment of compulsory and secondary education officials in reciprocity services. So there is a serious problem of the Ottawas, a request from the mayors, a problem facing local societies every day and for which, in fact, the most recent President of the CEDE did not hear anything from him. A common feature of these three points, and also of many others, which are within the bill, is something that is our mark: to support public health, education and to strengthen the institutions of local government. Someone will tell me: is that the essence? That's the point. For some, of course, these are fine letters. They're fine letters for the teenage and food defenders on the various lists. They are fine letters for those who have never seen children in classes to ask for a second book for better reading. They are fine letters for those who do not associate with people who are helpless to cope with the bureaucracy and the committees imposed by the various health structures. That's the reality. It's a deep class choice of this bill. It has a definite classic, it has a sign left, it is close to society, and that is why, with this bill, a number of issues will be resolved - problems that are happening in the midst of a crisis. With this bill we will proceed and with this bill we will support the lowest social strata. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. You were expensive. Mr. Pratsol Anastasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, which is part of the parallel programme, we are starting to implement measures of the left-wing government, which certainly alleviate the people. They are measures that give breath to vulnerable social groups and social groups, which live within the limits of poverty. And really here, ladies and gentlemen, I honestly cannot understand here the negative attitude of counter-population in regulations that actually relieve society and the positive actions contained in this bill. I honestly do not understand the positions of colleagues from the anti-politics group who systematically oppose this bill, who is trying to resolve even some issues of the humanitarian crisis, which has arisen from the five-year memorandum situation. However, they also did the same for the single wage by voting against the small increases made as a result of classification. It should be noted that this was after five years of continuous reductions. It seems, therefore, that it creates 'allergies' in opposition and any strengthening of social groups can be done. The honourable Members of the Com mittee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media have become so addicted to the tough memorial measures, which are unable to accept any good regulation for the benefit of the citizens. The Law of 91 Articles contains arrangements and issues of different Ministries which give citizens breath on a number of issues relating to their everyday lives, while resolving chronic diseases and distortions of the state machine. In the substance of the bill, I should like to refer to some of the regulations of this kind, and in particular to issues relating to local government. More specifically, Article 4 strengthens the active involvement of the Local Government Adequately in the implementation of social protection at local level by setting up and operating community centres, i.e. socially beneficial structures and humanitarian destinations, which seek to welcome or interconnect vulnerable population groups with all social programmes and services. A common finding is that KALIKRATS in its five years of operation has caused several malfunctions and gaps, such as transfers of powers without the relevant institutionalised resources, which have not come to the local government. A central announcement, therefore, of the left-wing government was and remains the overall revision of the institutional framework of local government. For this reason, a special committee is set up in Article 5 to make proposals for revision with a view to strengthening local autonomy and rationalising procedures. In accordance with Article 7, all recruitments of permanent and private law undetermined staff of the categories of OH and PH of all OHS A's and B grades, which had been frozen with Law 4093/2012, the 2013-2016 medium-term fiscal strategy framework. This has caused serious problems for OTA services offered. And, unfortunately, all this opposition seems to be just a set-up. I am right to say this because in her vocabulary the word 'intake' creates allergies. The only word that exists is the word 'dismissal'. Article 13 allows municipalities, on the decision of the City Council, to reduce municipal taxes or even to exempt them from the tax on the most deprived persons, persons with disabilities, third parties, multiples, single parents and the long-term unemployed. With Article 23 by abolishing the arrangements concerning the assignment of phytosanitary powers to other legal persons, the responsibilities rest not only of the implementation of solid waste management projects but also of the determination of pricing policy and the collection of charges to primary local authorities. With regard to the fees to be paid by the municipalities to the FVO, it is laid down that if, within one month, the fixed amount has not been paid to the latter, they may apply to the Minister of the Interior in order to impose on the municipalities an equal withholding tax on regular financing. Of course, here we will have to see in another possible bill - a proposal I make to the Minister of the Interior - and the amendment of Articles 13 to 17 of Law No 4171/2012 on the compulsoryity of a VHSD in each region. I will say one more thing about the PPPs, which has been mentioned here about whether they are in favour of citizens or not. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I will simply pass on to this House the experience of the Regional Director of Western Macedonia, as has been said in the Committee of the Regions. Today, the citizen of Western Macedonia is charged with the waste of about EUR 125 per tonne, after negotiation, because it was in the past with EUR 137 per tonne, while a normal price is between EUR 30 and EUR 40 per tonne. Who, then, serves interests and for whom? Finally, I would also like to refer to the amendment by the Ministry of Health, which provides the opportunity for grade I and II, without being forced, to be able to assist in matters relating to health structures. In fact, once again I am am amazed by the reactions of some in here and also of the spokesman President of the CEDEFOP, who does not miss an opportunity for any matter to ask for the resignation of the Government or of its Ministers, indifferent to the substance of the amendment, which gives the right - and I stress it once again - without obliging OTA bodies to be able to assist in health structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Pratsol, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u7	I shall conclude, Mr President. This bill gives only a small taste of the changes and structures that this government intends to introduce. If you want, it gives the mark of left governance: Changes and structures that contribute to the recovery of the Greek economy with a social and class mark, to the reintegration of all those displaced from the labour market and social life, as well as the redistribution of the wealth produced and social justice. In conclusion, I would like to say this: for us, ladies and gentlemen, for the Left Government and for the most difficult budgetary conditions, such as the ones that are going through today, their people and needs are at the heart of our policy and not just the figures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u8	Mr Tsirkas Vasiliou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this programme, which we are debating today, represents a major step in the planning of the country's social and economic upheaval, in line with social justice. We are in the sixth month of the second term of the Left Government and in these months we have achieved a series of things within the difficult economic conditions that we have been facing, but also within an extremely variable and flexible international scene of recent months. However, we have managed in this year's budget to put a stop to reducing education expenditure and to increase the social budget by EUR 823 million. We have prioritised the relief of vulnerable social groups, which have been most affected by the crisis. The government has fought to ensure a significant financial space in order to pursue our own social policy, and we are now bringing this bill to speed up the work of government on a social basis. This bill demonstrates our desire for another policy, a policy focusing on human beings and the maintenance of the cohesion of the social fabric. Our aim is to move on a path different from the one that has been going in the past five years and have plunged the country into an unprecedented social crisis. The battles we have to fight are too many. But, apart from the battles that this government has to give abroad, the situation in our society obliges us to fight internally in order to keep society up. So the current government is putting an end to the indifference to the severe social problems faced by our country. These are provisions of the Ministry of Health, Interior and Labour, which attempts to overcome pathogens and distortions in many areas of social and economic life. The provisions of the Ministry of Health guarantee the right to health coverage of uninsured citizens and vulnerable groups. Full and free access to about two and a half million uninsured is guaranteed. This is how, finally, the constitutional obligation of the Greek state to ensure full and equal enjoyment of the social right to health for all citizens. The main philosophy is the free access to public health structures, based on AMKA, for all and their complete nursing, diagnostic and pharmaceutical coverage. Most of the migrants without papers are taken care of. That's our morality. This is our moral advantage, the advantage of the Left Government, and on this basis we will move, on the basis of solidarity and equality. This provision serves the fundamental objective of the welfare state for universal health coverage of the people of the country, which is for the first time being carried out. It is very important that the arrangements, relating to the uniform treatment of the way in which the positions of doctors of the ESS with the central design for the distribution of medical staff, are set out in order to cover gaps as soon as possible, and it is also very important to establish incentives to meet medical needs in fertile and remote areas. The measures to facilitate doctors’ crises are also important in order to speed up recruitment and facilitate a process for the transfer and transfer of doctors and staff within the ERC, which define the necessary legislative framework for the mobility of ERC staff by abolishing Rusphetti and the customer state. There are the provisions of the Ministry of Interior that concern, among other things, local government and give the signal of direction in which we will move on with regard to social justice, transparency and solidarity. I would remind you that next week another bill for public administration is coming, which will be a sign placed to stand the state on its feet with a modern and effective administration by abolishing the party and client state. I'm hanging up because time's too short. Ladies and gentlemen, we are implementing our electoral commitments to relieve society. It seems clear that despite the deep budgetary crisis and the minimum space available to us to exercise our own policy, we are struggling to do so. However, even though some are trying to destabilise this government and disorient it from the real problems and great interventions that society needs, they will not succeed. This government will stand up to set up a welfare state, a state of equality and justice. We will fight for the same policies that have destroyed the state not to come back, a country which has broken down, without education and health structures and a public administration on the brink of destruction. Now that the government is moving on, now that our legislative work is moving on in the final act to end the negotiation, to make the first assessment and to move on to debt relief, now that we are moving on to major social interventions, some people want to stop us. For the Left Government, however, social change remains a bet on the field where it will be judged in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u10	My colleague Mr Mitafidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, despite the suffocating time frame we have in order to develop our views, I would like to point out the silence of the PASOK Members in particular to the excellent text of the German Vice-Chancellor and Chief of Social Democrats, Mr Gabriel, in my opinion. I do not know if he wrote this because he has remorse for the policy he has implemented with Mrs Merkel and against the country, but he warns that this policy leads to an undoing on the founding idea of Europe and, of course, the fact that years ago we are denounced here, that the money given to Greece went most to creditors, and cynically characterises the threats to the closure of borders and the exclusion of Greece from Schengen and even speak of proposals that poison the European dialogue. It is very characteristic of what he asks: How can it be that so many billions can be found to save the banks, but not to save people? About the same thing she said from her left-wing point of view and the head of Die Linke's parliamentary group at the recent sitting in the German Parliament, which I recommend you listen to, in the astonishing eyes of Mr Shoeble, as I saw there in the relevant video. I would like to refer to two issues which have gone unnoticed, because I also had a personal relationship with them as a hereditary to the Municipality of Thessaloniki. You know that with the fragmentation of labour relations, the introduction of part-time employment, with wages and hunger pay, we have reached the unbelievable point in having people under contracts of indefinite duration in self-government, with part-time work, who cannot live. We've been all over the place for years. And so that you do not have any questions, why did the Greek people vote for us and stop saying this deception story, we fought for these issues too many, not only hours, but also days in court to ensure the right to work. Because the ministers sent you personal prescriptions. Now, then, those people who worked in the most degraded functions of self-government, such as hunger pay cleanliness, part-time, four hours, while more hours worked, can become full-time. I believe that the mayors who make us a wild war - not all of them fortunately - will implement these decisions. Also, to stop some of the Commissioners of the Court of Auditors slashing the hair into four and swallowing the camel, as it is the need for this poor world to be able to live with dignity in these conditions. I would like to close with this: For these very reasons we have been trying and fighting, we have been dragged into the disciplinary boards to get rid of us, because we have refused - and to their honour, several of the mayors have done so, some of whom have even been in the opposition - to dismantle our services and judicial decisions have been implemented. So we are now able - because Mr Patoulis is accusing us of violating the autonomy of self-government, because we are no longer allowing them to engage in customer relations with the poor world, hire him and dismiss him - through local council decisions to apply the legal decisions on employment issues. We are very pleased about this. Know this world is absolutely with us. What we call an elegant parallel project was an alternative to neoliberalism. Because, as you know - I will repeat a phrase of Tsipras - we are trying to get through a cavo through the eye of the needle. We didn't run. We've given this battle, and we have our ally the poorest of this place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u12	Mr Christos Simorellis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Coming this way, I can't comment on a line of a recent New Democracy strain, that the New Democracy didn't take the Boyarns list, because it wasn't - it says - list and it was still cd. Your comments. I would also like to ask the Members of the Officerial Representation and others another question through my experience as a pharmacist. Two years ago, I had a lad at my pharmacy, who lost both his job and his safety. He had to take a medicine, which was necessary for him, and he had to take it every month. He didn't have the chance, because he was uninsured. So he had to run either at the Trikala Pharmaceuticals Association or at the social pharmacy. I ask the colleagues of the New Democracy and the other parties: Can we allow this man to take the medicine? Yes or no? If we allow him, then you must vote for this bill, which we bring here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u14	Participation pays the drug?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u15	Sure. We are very pleased to vote today on a progressive bill aimed at promoting measures to strengthen public health and reorganise the ESS. With these regulations, the government has made an explicit commitment to the vulnerable social groups that the parallel health programme will not only be withdrawn, but will be formally passed. It is crucial that this bill, which we are voting on today, includes the health coverage of our insecure fellow citizens and vulnerable groups, regardless of the legal status in which they are located. We thus ensure two and a half million uninsured people and do our constitutional obligation to provide universal and equal access to the social good of health. So we manage based on AMKA for registered and non-documented immigrants, together with upgrading all electronic and administrative systems, to strengthen access to public health structures. So the uninsured will have medical coverage and will be able to take medication from the pharmacy. This measure covers all those who have so far been unable to take their medicines, making medal care as a universal good. For us, ladies and gentlemen, the strengthening of the social state, which has largely degraded in recent years of the crisis, is of paramount importance. Together with the implementation of the agreement through the tough negotiation, we are able to secure measures, which are in the interests of the economically weak and all those who have been hit by the economic crisis. I will also stand up to other positive provisions that reduce bureaucracy and administrative costs and improve infrastructure. Recruitment is facilitated and incentives are created for rural and subsidiary doctors so that they do not remain vacant in remote areas of our country. It is a very important measure for the remote areas of our country that are in deficit. We have facilitated the crises of doctors with the creation of councils by specialisation in each health region, facilitating transfers and transfers with rational use of personnel, transparent management of the OSH list for the valid service of citizens, preventing unacceptable practices such as the "face" and the reorganisation of doctors' service and disciplinary councils for the quick processing of cases. Very important is the establishment of patient protection offices in public hospitals, which can collect complaints of corruption phenomena. Public control produces the most appropriate assessment. In addition, the EMCDDA is reconstructed, regulating staff issues and restoring deficits. There are many others, ladies and gentlemen. In short, we are voting on a package of measures aimed at optimising administration, combating bureaucracy and protecting patients and uninsured people. It is a start in an attempt to relaunch public health. I was very sorry to note that since the parallel programme came to Parliament, we have been under attack from the opposition. In December, colleagues from the New Democracy, PASOK and Potami left the Committee of Parliament and rushed to inform us that we converted the draft law procedure from urgent to simple, so that there would be more time for consultation. It is not easy to accept, ladies and gentlemen, that public health, which you have broken up in five years of monuments, is something we are improving. The system wasn't driven to collapse by itself. This was done under the responsibility of certain politicians and specific ministers of the New Democracy and PASOK, and today public health otters dare to shake our fingers. But there is a significant difference here. This difference is that on the basis of the neoliberal dogma served by the New Democracy and hastened to defend Mr Mitsotakis, health is a commodity and therefore cannot be public and cannot be universal. That's where we differ ideologically. We and the hardest period for the economy, when we are trying to recover from a state broken up by your policies, are able to move through this important regulation and this is a victory, not only for SYRIZA and ANEL, but also for every citizen who will benefit from the upgrading of public health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u16	My colleague, Vassilis Kikilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the parallel programme again comes to be discussed in the plenary session. We do not need to discuss how it was withdrawn and rejected last time. I, too, accept the good intention of colleagues to feel in their hearts again that they do not apply neoliberal policies, arising from a memorandum signed by them, but policies with a left-hand mark - likewise the government - and to support the untapped and needy. However, some of you, some of your fellow Members in the previous SYRIZA parliamentary group were tossing off the finger for a humanitarian aid programme that came from a surplus and not a deficit, which came from specific codes of a regular budget - the country's first settled surplus budget after many years - and they flouted it, mocked it, offended it, offended colleagues and talked about crumbs. And now, grosso modo, after the programme of Thessaloniki and the 2 billion that you promised, you come with 100 million and you legislate on essential provisions, which are already being implemented, Minister. The reality and the truth is that in the health part, free hospitality is applied to everyone. I accept I.D., but this is not something new, something different, something that you are starting now and which you are presenting to us. In any case, you will allow me, because they have been said enough by colleagues so far, especially yesterday until 2:00 at dawn, to focus on something that I understand as a humanitarian crisis. Mr President-in-Office of the Council - and I see that Mr Dritsa is here too - because the humanitarian crisis has something to do with everyone, both Greeks and immigrants and refugees and uniforms, I tabled a written question yesterday. At the moment we are talking about Kastelorizo, ladies and gentlemen, there are two hundred and fifty fellow citizens living in Kastelorizo. Mr. Yakumato, two hundred fifty for a thousand refugees and immigrants! For a thousand! A hundred people go through this island every day. Do you know what Kastelorizo is? Do you know where he is? Do you know that it is of key importance to the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone? Do you know that a humanitarian crisis is also our two hundred and fifty fellow citizens, the two - Greeks, who are in an outrageous area, whom we have abandoned on their own? Is the Minister aware of Mr Toskas, who has been dealing with the public right and left in the channels in the last few days with public relations and others - which I do not want to judge - that there are six police officers, that the two of them, because they have no house, live in the police station, which he drips? Is Mr. Dritsas aware that there are four porters on the island for a thousand illegal immigrants and refugees?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u18	You don't know...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u19	How do you understand the humanitarian crisis? Hypocrisy! In private channels you all turn out to go talk and pretend to be a humanitarian program when on the edge of Greece there is a real humanitarian crisis that you refuse to face! That is the reality and the truth! But you cannot, Minister, go to Kastelorizo because there is no way to go to Kastelorizo, because the ship will go again next week. So, explain to me, at the most central and critical time for the safety of the country what you are doing for this permissive region, how you ensure our national interests, what you are doing for these two hundred fifty inhabitants of the island, what you are doing for this very important, major and crucial issue. These are issues of humanitarian crisis. This is the reality that you have to deal with and not, supposedly, with lymph communication policy to bail on things that are minor. You bring me here and you squeeze on the canals for fifteen, twenty days, and finally it says it, when we both know - and you and you, Mr Aylonitos, know it, this is the reality - that it is a poor figure for the humanitarian crisis that the country is facing. So don't mention it as an achievement! And look at the real problems! I'm expecting answers from the government! What about Kastelorizo? Today, not tomorrow, before it's too late! Do you know what, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen? They are very small and few of what is happening with farmers, in relation to what will happen from the nation as a whole, if - the non-born! - Something happened in Kastelorizo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u21	Minister, after the tenth speaker I will give you the floor, because you did not speak yesterday and you will answer, so that we do not waste time now. I've planned it, you'll normally talk at the time of your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u22	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u23	But, until he responds, the government's non-response is coming out in communication!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u24	Mr Quick, first of all, I define the procedure. It has been established by a unanimous decision of the parliament. Secondly, we are now talking about after 15 minutes, we are not talking about tomorrow. We're talking about 15 minutes. I understand your sensitivity, but we are talking about a 15-minute delay, not an hour or two! My colleague, Karasardou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u25	Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The draft law we are debating today is particularly important and important. It includes measures to speed up the government's work. It contains a series of positive interventions in key sectors of the state, such as health, education, social solidarity and public administration. These are loose ends of the past. Their implementation is a collision process and their vote will lead to the modernisation of democracy and improve the daily lives of the citizens. Our aim is to implement areas and reforms in a social context, to solve years of problems. Firstly, we come to strengthen and relieve our insecure fellow citizens, who in all previous years actually did not have access to the public health system. Secondly, the O.R. list is set up through which it is expected to be critically addressed to the public hospitals. Thirdly, recruitment and staffing incentives are facilitated to cover positions in hospitals and health centres in fertile areas. Fourthly, measures to facilitate the crisis of ERC doctors are being taken to speed up recruitment. Fifthly, the process of the transfer and transfer of doctors and staff within the ERC is facilitated. Sixthly, the newspapers of doctors and scientific staff are regulated, with the aim of ensuring safer daily coverage of hospitals. Seventhly, the staff and disciplinary boards of ERC doctors are reorganised to investigate and deal more quickly with the cases of corruption, funding and various other issues. Eighth and eighth, matters of the staff of the EMCDDA are regulated. Ninth, patients' rights protection offices are being established in public hospitals. And tenth, the Hospital of Thera is founded. The above arrangements with the increased funding of hospitals provided for in the 2016 budget and the recruitment of medical care and other staff will lead to a significant improvement in public health services within the year itself. This bill is our first step towards the implementation of the parallel programme and it is only a small taste of the changes that we intend to introduce in the next period. We all know that the policies of recent years have burdened and completely disorganised public social benefits. They completely weakened the already weak social strata. I will mention just one example of the health sector. Between 2005 and 2009, public spending on the medicine passed from EUR 2.8 billion to EUR 5.1 billion. Absolutely no new condition and no new treatment justifies the doubling of costs. In other words, 2.3 billion euros were stolen from the taxpayers, fuelling the gigantic primary deficit of 24 billion euros in 2009, which in turn led to a neoliberal turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u26	And when we reduced her, did you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u27	Stop, Mr. Voridis. This has resulted in a tragedy in the field of health and social benefits today. I must remind you that, when we were opposition, we have always tabled positive proposals to overcome the crisis in another direction, of course, from that of the then government. But the opposition, today, goes into a pointless and continuous 'category' which leads nowhere. We ask for positive alternatives from you. We ask for the essential presence of the Opposition. Because of everything that has happened in recent years, there are no more excuses and pretexts. We are all called upon to assume our responsibilities now, to overcome ourselves and our powers, so that we can find solutions, beyond micro-political and party interests. For us the time has come for social and political maturity. But we must all stand up to the circumstances. So far, you have chosen the path of the sterile opposition. From the outset, you are manoeuvringly reacting against this bill. This bill gives everyone the chance to act on a substance. The measures, to speed up the government's work, are the basis for the new social contract that we need to shape. It is the way out of the crisis, but with society standing, in a sustainable perspective. This means to us a left policy in conditions of austerity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u28	So now, Mrs Zoe Lebanese will speak, we will stop the Members' flow there, and I will call on the Minister, Mr Drica, to take the step. Mrs Lebanese, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since 2010 the Greek society has been faced with an unprecedented social crisis. It is faced with an unprecedented attack against any concept of social justice and a social state. Under the pretext of an economic crisis of the banks and the Greek State, caused by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, our country became a global experimental factory of liberalism, a levelling-up of social rights and a poor majority of the Greek people. The partners in the European Union demand that Greece legislate against all European social conquests. Europe must put man and society ahead. It must make social development the vehicle that will lead to real recovery. SYRIZA - ANEL government emerged through the ranks of the Greek people to stop the Memorandum Policy. The government is trying to overcome the obstacles posed by the liberal majority of the Member States of the European Union. Those applied until 2014 did not have practical results. They took valuable resources from the Greek state. They have endured valuable structures and contributed to an extreme retreat of the social state. Today the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is trying with nails and teeth to limit social exclusion, restore extreme injustices, restore a sense of justice, knowing that the difficulties are still ahead of us. We are called upon to vote on a bill that did not come from a council of technocrats, but from the real needs of Greek society, from the needs of people and not from the needs of the figures. So I understand the difficulty of the opposition voting for a bill of understanding of the needs of human beings to attach to the figures. The government's proposal is trying to put an order, to restore bad texts, to reduce bureaucracy, to extend the application of certain social benefits now required. Obviously, the implementation of this policy does not solve all the problems or completely reverses the time-consuming diseases of the Greek social state. But it gives support to people who bear no responsibility for what is being done. The conditions are those that do not allow them to survive with dignity. Obviously we are not yet in a position to completely overthrow the implementation of a policy of supposed development, which has led to unreliable workers, hunger wages and millions of unemployed. I do not belong to any of the usual charges born by politicians or MPs. I am one of the great majority of the Greek people, the vast majority of the people of Evia, who have been unemployed from one day to the next. The fact that I've been in this Chamber over the past few months doesn't change who I am. It is, however, the effort of this government, which I hope will change the reality to which I shall return again. I'm here to support the hopes of my fellow citizens. It is a little difficult to understand the essence of the Dispute of Opposition in this bill. You really disagree with the extension of the measure of free supply of electricity, food and housing to our fellow citizens living in extreme poverty. You disagree with the attempt to set up Community Centres. You disagree with the improvement of the health care system for the disabled and the uninsured. You object with the exception of the recruitment rules that you have set for TAs in order to meet the needs of necessary staff, to reliably operate the services and to improve everyday life in the municipalities. You disagree in too much and because time is running out, I will end as well by saying: The Greek people are well aware of the reasons and the responsible for the crisis. As much as you are trying to convince him that the SYRIZA government is responsible for the current situation, the Greek people remember, they know and recognize the efforts we are making. He trusts the government to lead us through difficulties and problems to a better society. There's gonna be more to come. We will overcome the problems, with the whole society and not just those who endure, as it is your idea. If I may, I would like to close by paraphrasing our great poet Taso Levadi: in the end we will defeat all adversities, not by chance, but by our passion for something more distant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-five students and students and six teachers from the Municipal School of Skalochori Lesvos, the polypathy and socially sensitive Lesvos, and from the 2nd Municipal School of Argos Orestic Kastorias, with the beautiful lake. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor. Instead of eight minutes, which is the time of the ministers to answer Mr Kikilia, you will have ten minutes and within this time you will answer and be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u31	Why, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u32	Because that's how it's done, Mr. Yakumato. The flow is interrupted to speak by a minister. Fortunately, today is not many. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kikila, I do not know why today, while this is usually not the way you are presenting your issues and developing your views, you have so much tone up on a subject that indeed has special sensitivity. Did he drown you right? I don't know what exactly is going on? I'll tell you a short story. When in the previous period SYRIZA was a Qualified Opposition, I was responsible and honoured to be in charge of the Defence Sector. There has never been a question, even of a small degree of sensitivity, which my first move - and not alone, but in consultation with the President of the group - has never been to address the Minister responsible for Defence or the Minister responsible for these matters, to ask him to inform him and to state the availability for cooperation in handling the matter, in any case. Mr. Avramopoulos can assure you, Mr. Panagiotopoulos can assure you, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Defence and many others can tell you. That means opposition, that means a political system that works. Using a sensitive development for so obvious party reasons, creating a climate of danger, I think it does not suit the Greek people's ability to deal with their problems. I am not saying either about the political system or democracy. We here behave in a way that affects the reactions of society. Sets up or delivers...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u34	Are you telling us this, Minister? You've done it, Cougie, two and a half years now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u35	Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u36	Are you telling us this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u37	He's a serious man...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Kikilia, let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u39	And this is where they talk when we talk from Stepma. I do not see the same sensitivity, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u40	Now, if you'll excuse me, will you change the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u41	We should listen to him, but everyone should do the same! Respect to everyone!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Brutsi, I'm sorry, can you stop? You don't respect those who haven't spoken and who follow. Please calm down! There are 50 Members who are waiting. Is that how we're gonna get it? You'll have a minute more, Minister. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u43	I don't think what I'm saying is triggering anything. On the other hand, I call for a smooth consultation and debate with controversy. What's this riot about? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u44	It's not for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u45	In any case, because the Greek society must be informed at all times in a valid way, first of all, as I can assure you from the position of responsibility I have at the Ministry of Shipping and as political leader of the Port Authority, there is no time of the day, since the first moment I am in this position, that we do not have special care for areas with special sensitivity, measures and welfare and cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Civil Protection, daily, and political and service. I can tell you in detail about this. These days in fact - over the last two three days - we have a special mobility in Kastelorizo relatively increased, compared to the usual reality. We didn't leave it like that. Yesterday the ship took everyone who was identified and took over four hundred people. We have seen that this is not enough for this juncture and a special treatment is needed. Already a ship of open seas of the Port Corps, and the newly-built vessel, which we recently received, arrived at dawn today. Already within an hour he arrives another ship, which has the ability to receive two hundred with at least three hundred people. We have special supervision, in any case, and we also have a number of other interventions, which you will allow me not to go further. With this special mobility, with no other indication that something terrible is happening, our reflexes were immediately. What else should a government do seriously to stand up to these issues? Is she supposed to yell? Does he have to make announcements? The ministers must say: 'I did that and I did the other thing'? You can get very well informed. And be sure and be sure that the Greek people also know that the guards have knowledge and no one - both professional and political - is left unreserved in any such case. I think I covered for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u46	Minister, excuse me, but you didn't cover me, because the problem exists. There's a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u47	I didn't cover for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u48	Legislative work is not a parliamentary control. I think that a timely case, on this subject, will give the opportunity to speak more thoroughly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u49	It's done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u50	Anyway, what else can I say? If you mean that the refugee issue is in a position to solve it by our government, our country, the Greek people on their own, then the experience of yesterday's summit - once again, but, for example, much more than others - seems not to be the subject of study, involvement and conclusion. We have a Europe that is currently degrading, because of the refugee situation, its contradictions are exacerbated, horizontal categorisations are now being created on the face of the democratic arch, which is trying, by respecting human rights and international treaties, to keep Europe's security and cohesion - and this goes horizontally to many political forces in Europe - and another Europe that wants to develop competition, close borders and do anything that it can about in the worst periods of the pre-war Europe of World War II. Don't you take all this into account? Are these so indifferent? Are these so small-scale issues, that all the emphasis will be on whether the SYRIZA Government brings or does not bring migrants and refugees? Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u51	Are you really saying, Minister? On this island with the exclusive economic zone?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u52	You'll answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Kikilia, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u54	Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u55	What am I supposed to do with "forgive me"? That's not what we're talking about today. The bill is not about the refugee, if I'm not mistaken. I say that for you too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u56	I know, Mr. President. I just had responsibility and responsibility...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u57	But there is an amendment to the bill. He has an amendment to the refugee question. It has six ministries of amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, I had a responsibility and responsibility to speak about Article 31 and Article 32, which are two articles from our Ministry, are provisions for the responsibility of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. And that's where I'm going because time is running out. Article 31 regulates an pendingity that has been generated since 2014 that has caused a great deal of problems in the possibility of the approval of the Port Planning and Development Committee, the ESAL, and its decisions. Unfortunately, a number of decisions relating to urban demarcations in land port areas were adopted by ministerial decisions. The Council of State took the view that these are fundamental provisions of town planning and require a presidential decree. So, with this regulation, we are making it possible to regulate the validity of what has already been adopted, to take a real character, in accordance with the decision of the Council of State, and from now on to normalise the situation, so that in a very important sector, which is highly dependent on investment, the regulations of ports and all this, we can make progress after this legislation. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] Article 32 also regulates an issue of individual, but sensitive, maritime labour chapter, which pays through the European Social Fund, on the basis of a programme, for unemployed seafarers. The control of the European Social Fund came once and assured that taxes on income should have been withheld and taxed on these allowances. If this amount is assigned to maritime education, it is impossible - we are talking about the years 2008-2011 that have taken place - the naval labour capital can withstand and perform its role. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] With this regulation from now on - from 2011 onwards, all these things run normally, withholding taxes, being normalised - they are considered eligible for these costs, and therefore, there will be no more burdens on maritime labour capital so that it remains sufficiently sustainable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u59	Come on, Minister, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u60	I'm done, Mr. President. There are many issues, but unfortunately there are all these issues which should not be dealt with in this Chamber when we discuss such a serious bill, which actually opens up roads to the end of policy-making, namely real policy exercise. And perhaps that is the reason why opposition so much reacts. Because our government insists...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u61	Come on, let's go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u62	I'm done, Mr. President. It's the last sentence. Our government insists on politicising beyond supervision. And that doesn't like many. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u63	My colleague Mr. Lappas Spiridon has the floor. Europe took twenty minutes yesterday to deal with the big issue, migration, and 80% of the time to stay or leave Mr Cameron. Where are you, poor De Gaulle? Mr. Lappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, thank you. The fact is that the bill entitled 'Measures to speed up government work', a parallel programme we call it, aims to relieve vulnerable social groups - that is undeniably - and to resolve problems relating to the long-term economic crisis, for which we are certainly not responsible or if you want to be honest, we are not solely responsible. You've been ruling forty years, we've been ruling for a year. Let the people put them in the balance and judge. The war that accepts this bill by forces of counterpopulation, particularly the New Democracy, is easy to explain. Your forces - the New Democracy in fact has serious responsibilities for the current situation - are trying in every way to prevent social policy and the introduction of relief measures. For the benefit of your own policy, of course, you do so. The serious question, however, is that this practice is being exercised at the expense of the weakest, even trying to involve you in undermining social policy and creditors. What does the bill say, ladies? Firstly, health coverage of all uninsured citizens, regardless of nationality and physical criteria. Secondly, measures to fill vacant posts in hospitals and rural hospitals, of an urgent nature. Transparent Surgery List management for timely, secure and non-transaction-packaged, i.e. - citizens' service. Here I have to tell you that collective social conscience has been claiming it for fifty years and you have never done so. It's the first time it's been attempting. Establishment of a Thera Hospital - Ministers have said so. Support for socially active organisations in the area of solidarity. Interconnection of OTAs with social programmes. Social invoices of OTA. Integration of tritecs into the law on polytexts. Reinforced teaching. What have we heard here, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? In fact, you want to tell us that we are responsible for the unemployment of 25%, we for the six hundred thousand businesses that have been closed down, we for the collapse of public and public sector structures and services. We are responsible for all this. We are responsible for the country's state of emergency, as Ernst Bloch and Georgio Agaben have set it. We were able in one year to destroy what was good and virtuous you were building and building for forty years. Except what you are saying, the good and virtuous you are building, did not notice that the Greek people, who, for three consecutive elections, showed you the red card. I have heard Mr Loverdo say that if we had social sensitivity, we would have done so a year already. I believe that this phrase is a political courage. Is it not political sensitivity that under conditions of economic, unbearable crisis and suffocation in many areas we have taken legislative initiatives with care only for the many, the weakest? Remind you what? The bill to deal with the humanitarian crisis? For the hundred doses? For citizenship? About our intervention in the penitentiary? For the cohabitation agreement with the other provisions he had? Should we tell you about this bill? Do you dare say this bill does not face economic and humanitarian crisis phenomena? You should say it in public, let the Greek people hear it. What can we still remind you of? The bill that is already coming to Parliament on Tuesday for public administration, which is trying to rationalise structures and services that have collapsed and structured in a third world? That was the Europe you wanted. You are, he says, passionate Europeans. All that is nothing but the adoption of European directives or the European acquis you are fighting them with rabies. You're so European, so much! In all our initiatives, therefore, we are looking solely at man, as in this bill, and to his needs. You are trembling, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, whether this government can make up for what we call a humanitarian crisis and hope that the government and the country will fail on a number of issues. I still heard Mr. Loverdos say about what Mr. Vernardakis said, that the separatism of the media and the masters is a terrible problem. I would say this to you: are you talking about the media, ladies and gentlemen? We tell you what the press tells you every day. You can't fortify behind the Constitution and give up for authoritarianism supposedly and fraudulently drunken the government while you have a bad past and behave very clearly today. You have never come with specific proposals to the PSE. You have tolerated the violation of the Constitution for many years. You have not implemented the decisions of the Council of State. You didn't collect the money due from the media owners. You have allowed them to borrow from banks, without any guarantee at all. We have also paid for this. You have not checked, as you were obliged by law, the financial situation of the persons involved, and today you are pulling the finger on us. Who? You who are responsible for all this. And Mrs. Swollen here is overheating. So I'll remind her...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u65	You remembered me too! I didn't have time to get in. Say good morning at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u66	Yesterday Mrs Vulture from the Step of the House said that this bill is a great lie, perhaps a smaller lie. I would remind her that her word is a huge lie compared to what she said in 2001 in Pasalaris. Let me tell you what you were saying: "The information does not reach the end user as it was, but filtered by the information operators, i.e. by the opinion leaders. They decide what is important and what is not." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Lappa, hang up. Did you see what you're creating now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u68	What can I say, Mr President? I'm answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u69	Okay, but we said either the MPs talk or we interrupt on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u70	I shall put it to the Minutes, not to say what Mrs Vulture said in 2001. Mr President, I regard the issue of the incineration of the dead as one of the most important chapters of the bill as one of the most important chapters of the bill. You know very well what European countries have done. I ask you: are you here in Europe? From 1789 in Europe, in France, incineration of the dead and more fully until 1887 in Germany in 1934, in Britain in 1884. By 1890 all the states had established the possibility of incineration of the dead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u71	All right, hang up, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u72	I'm done, Mr. President. Here, in Greece, some initiatives taken by Miltiadis Evert and by a group of MPs in the 1990s and 2000s, you also fought them with rabies. That is why this incision is being made to incinerate the dead, Mr Athanasios, is part of the legal, constitutional and political...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u73	Okay. Saturday morning - we don't talk so much about the dead!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u75	Mrs. Vulture, you've got a minute strict.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, just a minute to say this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u77	Mr. President, excuse me. I'm presenting the relevant quote, which I mentioned, for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u78	Have a seat, Mr. Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u79	Yeah, great practice! Listen, please. What the honourable Member has said is precisely what I am saying, although I am criticising the media, I do not want them to be closed. This is the difference between me and you, Mr Colleague, that I am saying my opinion, I am critical, but I am not asking them to close because they are doing all of this. That's our difference. Know that we will restore pluralism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u80	We're moving on. In consultation with the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos has the floor in the place of Mr Dimas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Since there is not much time, I will be able to compare all the procedural documents in this bill. It was really the greatest crazier so far - and we have not seen a few - that is to say, at the end of last year as a parallel programme, there were no more than 60 articles withdrawn, some of which went through some legislative acts, some others came to this bill, which was no longer a parallel programme, but also until the last hour ministerial amendments are made to every science. In any case, it is not a bill on the measures to speed up the government's work, but it reminds me of a bill more about slowing down government deterioration. The arguments of the Members of the Chamber of Deputies are impressively similar. Almost the same reason has been developed since yesterday: "The opposition is reacting, because it obviously does not want to help society, while we want it. Forty years they ruled. Is it now that everything is broken in the year that we rule?' Nearly all of us say: 'We have had a lot of war, society is with us'. It is easy to say this here, with the comfort of plenary, a nice Saturday morning, which many of us should normally be in our constituencies. I wonder, then, what approach you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, would take from the society waiting for you in the constituencies, unless the House did us a favor to discuss this bill here. That would not be the case, and perhaps you would change your mind. But let us also talk about some fundamental issues - first of all about the social state and say that even in the Scandinavian countries, if it is assumed that the Nordic social welfare system is the best and what covers most needs, even there, the universality of a public social welfare system based on the principles of equality and solidarity, as is also the case there, this welfare state is based on the redistribution of the product of economic prosperity, on the status of a free economy. What happens with the redistribution of this product - whether it will be allocated to a universal system of benefits or whether it will go to some targeted income aid, to some specific vulnerable social groups - is another matter. Of course, however, the state is relying on the surplus of wealth. Also, the social state, based on this assumption, is expanded in times of economic boom and shrinks in times of crisis and recession. These are the possibilities that we have to move. I remind you what was happening in the Greek economy at the end of 2014, when we had been marginalised to growth. You know, the unemployment indicators fell marginally. Even marginal, a little marginal. But it fell. 'ERGANI' - Mr Brutsi is here - was revealing. The redundancies - recruitment balance in January 2016 was less than ten thousand. Ten thousand redundancies, more recruits. Last year, in January 2015, it was plus six thousand. So it's not forty years. It is a year, this time that reversed this course marginally at the end of 2014 in the best direction. What would be, then, the predictions, the possibilities of a social state in times of recession and what would be in times of economic blooming? Unless the plan is to become the beneficiary of some welfare provision and to make us all poor. If that is the plan, we need to take off the hat here rather than go against it. I would like to make two specific comments on the bill, on the provisions that I think were different. Regarding the health care of unsecured people, where we put a matter of costs, because measures are supposed to be costly, we had no answer except the cost will be borne by the EEAS. Who? The EEA, which does not spend a period of blossoming of its finances. He's overcompensated, but he's being called here to take over an extra charge. And for uninsured foreigners of all kinds, whether refugees or irregular or illegal - let us not remain here in the determination - I have heard the Minister in great comfort indeed, talking about healthy populations. I will accept that the majority - for a majority yesterday Mr Paulakis spoke - are healthy, of course. Some people, however, will take care of them. Do we have any evidence on this? Has the CDC been ordered to carry out the necessary checks in order for the Minister to come with certainty and say 'Okay children, in this percentage do we have healthy populations'? Here is an arbitrary assessment, because the diagnostic tool has not been activated. So, where's he based? In the opinions of the honorable doctors of the world, but who do not have that authority? CDC's got it. CEDEFOP awaits those who will strengthen their ranks, through the recruitments you are taking, but most of them will go to meet urgent needs in intensive care units. That's the reality. So don't come here with such comfort to say "Okay, you're whatever statements," said someone healthy, they're healthy. The state must see them and be able to tell us, on the basis of specific official evidence, that they are the case. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to make one final comment, very briefly - and I thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance - on the amendment to cover exceptional operational needs of health structures by the first and second degree local authorities, namely municipalities and regions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u82	Come on, Mr. Panayotopoulos, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u83	Firstly, this is a confession of failure, that you cannot, that is, the central state cannot cover them and, secondly, it is a transfer of responsibility to the municipalities and regions. Because tomorrow the one with the urgent problem and cannot find a solution to the public health structure in the hospital will go to the mayor, because the mayor knows and there goes every day. Not so much to the district commander, but to the mayor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Panayotopoulos, please close your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u85	I shall end in ten seconds, Mr President. If the regions asked for it, they would have requested it. Obviously it will be about covering some exceptional expense in some isolated hospital, whether in mountain or in an island area. Well, they've asked for it. However, you must specialize in the wording of the legislation, in other words say that it is for that. Otherwise, this confusion is being created and tomorrow there will be an excessive pressure on the levels of local government when they are not able to cover the already existing expenditure in their social structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Cryazides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the Lord is blessed with you. Two days now, the white, black white, a permanent'solmonical' in a few words, so that you can convince us how well today's bill is. Blind to have the program of Thessaloniki! If you believe all of this, of course, you would say that it can be accepted. But if you sincerely have the illusion that while the world is gone, you are struggling here, I tell you that unfortunately you have taken a dangerous road. Indeed, if you do not believe them and, as Mr Lappas said earlier, if what he said about the honourable clientele, it is understood. But if you believe them, that's too dangerous. It is a bill of unknown costs, the results of which will be shown if they can be implemented. It's all in a case. But the reality is too hard and everyday life itself and imposes specific solutions that unfortunately do not exist for you. The country has been in a post-mortem phase for over a year now. There is a suspension of its operation at each level. I have to deal specifically with this. The police have withdrawn from where they had to deal with matters of public order and security. No production from illegal immigrants. The porters themselves. They withdrew from the checks until August. In August you discovered that there are borders in the country and you started implementing some measures and many times only when it comes to commitments. The same is true of patrols, because we must also make this reference to public order and security, especially in Lefkanopedi, especially in the centre of Athens. The project "THESIS" has been withdrawn. It's only on paper. I have to say this because it is about everyday life, about ensuring our fellow citizens. While patrols are recorded in the papers, especially in the center of Athens, they have been retired and have been placed only for your security. This is very important and dangerous and I must stress. As you referred to partyism, I will say that there is insurmountable partition in terms of the future functioning of the Greek Police, the Firefighting and the Port Corps. Those who did not "survey", were out. Last year and this year the police administration, senior executives, have been decapitated. Two hundred and twenty senior and top officers were found out, being capable, worthy, acceptable to Greek society. I'm not just talking about a person who's been made public these days. The head of home affairs, the Corruption, a police worker, has been released. The same happened to officials on the sidewalk with special skills, because they did not “survey”. If this is your function of a rule of law, equality and dignity, then enjoy it, but unfortunately reality is too hard.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Yakoumatos has the floor. There are two Alexanders, Mr Triantafyllidis and Mr Meikopoulou, one Catherine, Mrs Papanatsiou, and, if possible, a second Catherine, Mrs Papakostas, before the rapporteurs begin. Mr. Yakumate, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is said and said that success for a government, for a state in a favoured state, is not to add people to the lists of social protection structures, it is not to add to social grocery stores, social pharmacies, but to remove. And I see here that you are pleased that we have reached a people in the social grocery store and in the social pharmacy. It's simple. I mean, it is not an honour to have a support mechanism, but the state should ensure that citizens step on their feet, have the right to work, work, have an income. In this you do not legislate! We have arrived here in a completely distorted political system. We've left citizens with no minimum income, no job. The biggest tragedy the country is experiencing today is this humanitarian crisis. And we're coming here to legislate. - for a social grocery store, for a dish of food. And he tells you this, someone who's experienced hunger in the 50s-60s. Then there was real hunger. But there was prospect, there was hope. In the village the farmer, the worker, the scientist could work and create income and dignity. Today, unfortunately, in young people, young scientists, workers, there is no prospect, no hope but - as you do - to go to the social grocery store. This is what Greek society sees today. Ladies and gentlemen, today, at a time when we are all aware of reality, do not do what we are not seeing. Let's visit a hospital, Minister - not when it's ready to wait for you, but suddenly - to see what shortcomings there are. Are there any hospitals underway today, gauze? Are there any drugs? There are too many shortcomings. Not to tell you that for aorta stenosis, to get the transplant - which is expensive - it takes seven months and by then the patient will be dead. I can mention a lot more. And you are now coming here to New Democracy's 2006 and 2014 Legislation, where we established free medical and hospital care, to add economic migrants as well. You're right. But aren't you telling us about the 100 million euros we anticipated at the time, Minister? Find money. So what am I supposed to do? Shall I offer when I don't have to give? When a child goes to the Children's Hospital today and tell his mom "go and bring the child's food" was someone going to Alexandra Hospital - I tell you in particular - and they say, "Get your pillows and sheets," is that not what you're worried about? Really, is that left vision? So, you visioned to give people hope to social grocery stores, social pharmacies? Is that why you work here and you legislate for the piles? I personally deny this vision. To boil this policy and that government that has its vision of social grocery stores! I don't want to deceive them. They offer work, but that's not the goal. Instead of legislating and thinking about creating new jobs, how we can see the long-term unemployed, the young unemployed working, instead of giving a dish of food, we give these social grocery stores. I would remind you here - and I will suggest that Members read it - that in the beginning of the 20th century the great Norwegian Nobel Hassun wrote - and it is very timely today - a masterpiece called 'Hunger'. Read it, Minister, to understand what the effort of the man who lives a strange life with the mysteries of the soul is in a hungry body that is fighting to survive both hunger and dignity. That is why we say that the return to these tactics of the grotesque, hunger stores today is paranoia, and I do not believe that we have all been led to a theory of paranoia and that an entire people are being driven into paranoia. As far as social structures and social protection proposals are concerned, I am proud of the New Democracy. I'll remind you of a few things we did when we were really inspired by such visions. The "LAICO" Hospital, Mr. Xanthi, did it for free for those years of police and hunger. We made the IKA with Panagiotis Kanellepoulou. We made the OGA. We built the Labour House Agency and the OAED. This social centre-right policy defends and shields the weak worker, the middle-class. Our vision is not to degrade society, it is to build a social state with strong foundations, which serves not to oppress the citizen, which provides the citizen with foundations and not with crusts of charity. This state is envisioned, this state wants the New Democracy to build. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u90	I will give the Minister Xanthos the floor for a few minutes to put forward legislative improvements and tell us which amendments he will or will not make. Minister, I'm counting on medical solidarity. I don't give you time, but be brief, please. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u91	I'll be very brief. We're going to submit three legislative improvements. As far as Parliament's amendments are concerned, I will tell you, in very short time, what they are accepted. I'm not ready yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Alexander Triantafylides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, just mentioning the fact that there are two opposite policies by the 2,500 decontaminated doctors of the IKA, the demolition of primary health care on the one hand and the essential one - with the draft law that we are discussing - cover the uninsured people who are calling for the structures of primary health care - to deal with the possible permanent and lasting problems of their health - that would only be sufficient to form a common point, a common denominator in favour of this particular draft law. Three million uninsured! I wonder, in fact, how deeply analgesic, how deeply antisocial one must be so that he does not come directly to cover the pain, misery, the immediate problem of the citizen who has lost his job, who is fired, is unemployed, is homeless, so that he can have access to primary care, to the medicine, to the medicine, to his relative, to his mother, his father, his child. Political blindness overtakes it all! Absolute political blindness, deep analgesia and an obsolete racism that brings this wing to flirt with the other wing of the extreme right. People ask where the money is going to come from. From the parallel anti-corruption and interrelated programme. Does a Syrian say so? Oh, no. Ziggmar Gabriel: "The Greek elite was plundering Greece for years and we were just looking," he said on July 7, 2015. I read from the newspaper 'NAYTERVORIC'. I repeat: "The Greek elite" - politicians, journalists, businessmen - "was plagiarizing Greece for years and Europe was just looking", that is, in common, flying a kite, says Zigmar Gabriel, the anti-Cancellor, her partner Mr. Merkel, not Syris. This came to my mind as, last night - and this morning, there is nowhere to be seen as a matter - the battle they were fighting against corruption and interlocutory was discovered. The Consulate of Dusseldorf revealed it. The Foreign Minister's reply and the correspondence that comes to the fore. He didn't want Antonis to search the Borgians list. Why would he look for her? On 13/8/2009, judgment of the Munich Peace Court. I read from the valid "www.tovima.gr", not any anarcho-communist site. Title: "You have channelled money to PASOK and ND". Christmas. It's the decision of the Peace Court, it's not a comment. He says - just so that we can freshen up our memory, to understand what Antonis was afraid of who didn't want the Boyarns list, which was given by the Minister of Economy, but he didn't take the Boyarns list - the following: "The money should reach the funds of the New Democracy and PASOK parties and possibly share them further." This is what I read from the reasoning of the Munich Peace Court's decision condemning Christophobson for bribery. And he says: "For this purpose, the two cashiers of the two PASOK and Ν parties, as you jointly agreed," says in Christoforakos "would exercise, on the civil servants who belonged to their party, the influence required to induce these employees to use their judgement of receipt in such a way that, in cases of doubt, they would decide in favour of the company - "SIEMENS" - possibly also against their duty". I present the report of 13 August 2009 from 'tovima.gr', which is all practical. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What did we do, though? He says, "What did you do?"
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u94	For bribery or attempted bribery?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u95	Announcement by the Ministry of Finance: "We took the list of Boyarns". Typhoon Alexiadis and Mr. Papagelopoulos. The list received by the government has already been delivered to the financial prosecutors and will be checked by a specific operational plan that has already been drawn up and is being implemented. Those who defended public abusers, those who with a great deal of courage even claim to write off their party's debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u96	For bribery or attempted bribery? You're not answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u97	In other words, they ate state funding by 2024, ate the "SIEMENS" and left a debt of 210 million. The party, with a signal of bankruptcy, now confessed by its own President, left the congress and went to a crafts sector. And in a studio to go, you can't spend 210 million! And the people demand: 'Get back the loan, the 210 million'!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Triantafylides, you're going to get hurt, and, you've heard, we have a lack of beds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u99	Until you bring the 210 million, until then silence, confession, repentance and self-criticism! They are the ones who were asking for Greek banks to close down to justify their policy. What policy? Debt, memorandum, twins of known father and known mother, New Democracy and PASOK. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. You're hitting with the channels of intercom.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u100	Finish, Mr. Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u101	Immediately, Mr President. You're hitting on the fence hope we're gonna fall. You haven't noticed you're hitting a nail. The louder you beat, the deeper you get into the corpse of corruption and interlocutory. Psilhis paid 3.8 million, Bobola paid 1.8 million, Papastavros paid 3.5 million, the ten clones of Papastavros and Christoforkos...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Triantafylides, get it over with!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u103	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. One and a half billion were committed by the stolen ones. The new revelations on the Boyarns list testify to what the Greek people have seen for years. You were afraid of the lists, like the hell with the ink.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u104	All right, come on, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u105	I'm hanging up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u106	Hey, hang up!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u107	Is it definitely nothing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u108	In 1963, Constantine Karamanlis had wondered who rules this place...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Triantafylides, you've been over two minutes a year. Shut up!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u110	I'm closing, Mr. President. In 2007 Costas Karamanlis posed a dilemma with the people or pimps? In 2015 Alexis Tsipras doesn't ask, he has no dilemmas. With the people. The people rule, the citizens rule. With the people, for the people, by the people! It repositions the concept of politics to the depth it deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u111	That poor people. Well, the second Alexander, Mr. Meikopoulou, has the floor. Here, you have the floor. I hope you'll be calmer in the tone, I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the repetition is certainly a mother of learning, but because it has been reproduced in a number of ways and in a very sufficient way, all the provisions relating to this bill by the Members of the House, by our rapporteur, the Members of Parliament, the Parliamentary Representatives, I think it would be somewhat inappropriate to have another reproduction, so I would be a little more free. I have listened very carefully, since yesterday, when this bill was introduced in plenary, to the positions of counter-population and to say the truth, I have given particular emphasis to the positions of the Members of the Civilian Staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Meikopoulou, excuse me, but I have to interrupt you for thirty seconds to get the floor for the Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Vernardakis, who has to testify in the Minutes for some legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u114	There is a legislative improvement related to Article 18 entitled ‘Confidentiality of PPC - HELEXPO S.A.’. The last subparagraph of Article 18 shall be deleted. I put it in order to share with colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Meikopoulou, start over. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. So, having listened with particular attention and emphasis on the positions of the Officerate, I think that one can of course come up with a very specific statement: the absence, the deficit of any programme proposal is replaced by over-examination, vocality and distortion. We have not so far heard a serious criticism, but a sincere position, as to whether these provisions of the bill produce a specific social result, only we hear arguments, which cannot at all bring about the reality of this bill. I think this is a sad thing and it does not help public debate about this bill. I also retained a specific position by the President-in-Office, Mr Kaklamani, who rightly said that the National Health System was not created yesterday. There have been years. What I would like to add, however, is that the pathogens created within the National Health System, the causes of its current collapse, have also been named and very specific responsibilities. I think that the Qualified Opposition and the Democratic Reconciliation should at some point assume these responsibilities. That, I think, is the right thing to do. So, despite the unfavourable economic situation we are going through, within this dust which is trying to create opposition, there is also a parallel legislative work, which does this: it tries and creates budgetary margins so that what we call a social state can be strengthened. So the provisions relating to the free, free access of uninsured citizens, to the Surgery list, to the exemption from the municipal fees of vulnerable groups, I think that they are provisions that face time-consuming problems. So the criticism you are putting to the government, that this is the parallel programme, and here it stops, that it has no basis. Our orientation is not exhausted in a first package. Depending on the economic situation, we will try to create budgetary margins in order to give answers to the difficult conditions that the Greek people are currently going through. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I would like to say a few words about an amendment that I have tabled, a very small reference to this bill. Article 5 of the Act of Legislative Act of 24 December 2015 stipulates that the daily care centres of the elderly are to be extended and that the Roma and vulnerable groups of the OTC institutions are to be supported until 30 June 2016, as well as the funding resources for the payment of the employee’s payroll. However, because there was an involvement from the lack of reference and the daily care centres of AMEA, which are only two in Greece under the auspices of OTAs - in Volos and Kilkis - by this provision. It is therefore necessary to complete the provision and take care to integrate these provisions and the day-to-day ITF care centres in order to ensure the smooth operation and continuity of services into particularly vulnerable groups, such as disabled people. With this amendment, we also propose that these structures, Volos and Kilkis be given a six-month extension by 30 June 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, in completing this brief position, I would like to say that the criticism is acceptable and desirable. But what criticism? Creative, quality, that which contributes to dialogue and promotes issues. And if you want something, I believe that this government will be judged on the results it can bring into the social and economic sphere and not on the 'humbs' that it can have with the complexity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-three students and students and two educational sessions from the General School of Nea Peramos Kavalas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a little mention on December, when some people, either secretly or manifestly, welcomed the transfer of the bill. But the time has come when, as we said, the bill arrived in plenary and today, ladies and gentlemen, we will see who is with whom and who will vote against measures to relieve the great majority of the people. I would also like to point out that this bill also includes malicious criticism of government planning. We pointed out since September and then that the parallel programme will include measures which will have a dual role. Firstly, it will alleviate social groups, having a clear social profile and, secondly, it will lay down the conditions for restructuring certain strangles, which have either existed or have been created in recent years. So those who have asked from the very first time where they are and, above all, what this parallel programme is are now receiving an answer, but it is not the first one and it will not be the last one. There has been a lot of talk about the insurers both in the committees and in the public speech. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, we are not asking or seeking recognition in general and vaguely. We want to be practical and useful. The fact that in our hospitals no longer there is the banning penetrating, but in addition, the uninsured, vulnerable groups, migrants are universally covered show the logic of the Ministry's leadership, but also the government's aim to protect the world that really needs it. And I think we can do that by covering about two and a half million of our fellow citizens. At the same time, issues which, even in terms of social solidarity and equality, have also been resolved. We are moving towards community centres - the so-called 'poor' JEPs, operating under OTAs - for the reception, service and interconnection of vulnerable social groups with social programmes and services. This is how the active involvement of the Local Government A' degree in the application of social protection at local level is planned and strengthened. Nor can I really imagine who or whose Member could vote against issues such as allowing municipalities to exempt vulnerable social groups from municipal taxes and fees. We broaden the beneficiaries by adding three-tiers, single-parent families, long-term unemployed and the beneficiaries of the humanitarian crisis law. Also, the timely expansion of electricity supplies, feeding and housing to beneficiaries of humanitarian crisis measures. To facilitate procedures for the appointment of doctors to the ERC. The incentives for doctors to choose to make their farm in remote areas and barren islands. Establishment of the General Hospital of Thera. Appointment of the successors of the 1997 CSCE after twenty years. The creation of social work programmes for the unemployed. Support for new professionals with social invoices JHA. The regulation of Ottawa personnel in border areas and the possibility of transferring Ottawa staff. Resolve the question of the application of the guarantee letters to farmers and employers. In addition, a check on the unemployment action programme is finally in place by the Ministry of Labour. Another feature that differentiates us from your own policies, gentlemen of counter-population, is the restoration of support structures in our teaching and in our schools. We are therefore restoring the strengthening teaching of high school, additional teaching in high school and instruction in special detention shops for young people and second-time schools, the home-to-house teaching of detainees. Already this year, 515 school centres will be regulated by decision and 1,023 teachers will be employed. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is only a part of a programme that is not static. It will continue to be enriched and shaped in line with the needs of the citizens. And the problem is that we have to codecision on whose side we are all in this Chamber. Unfortunately, and with great disappointment, in December, we saw you adopt the same argument as the institutions with regard to the programme at the time. It is not possible at first to abandon the Government for an unexistent parallel programme and when it comes to the House, to do everything you can to avoid being voted on, with funny excuses, and not to vote for measures to relieve the unemployed, vulnerable social groups. The reality is that you are not interested in these measures, because many of the current regulations give solutions to the problems that you have created. Many of the current regulations have a clear social and class mark, and that is what concerns you. The signal of our own policy will be judged at the end of the day. For one thing, we're still convinced. It's worth fighting for the best days. It's worth fighting for those who didn't have a voice all these years. It's worth struggling with the complexion and the media. It's worth fighting for the financial data lists. We asked you whether you were invited in 2012 to investigate the Westphalia-Rannia lists that Mr Borgians had in his hands. You used to call us muslimists. Since yesterday there have been official documents proving that the previous government has refused a meeting with Mr Borgians. Why did you reject proposals to investigate possible sources of revenue? So it's worth fighting. That's what we know how to do, to fight. That's what we learned on our political path and we won't stop until we do it. Be sure. Today we are voting on a bill which, even if little, raises the mark of cracks in the memorial policies. We'll have it all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Papanaceu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, may I ask the Minister a question about his amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u121	Who do you want to ask? Talk to the microphone please, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President, for granting time. Mr Minister, you have tabled an amendment concerning Article 61. I believe that it fully confirms the concerns and objections expressed by the Members of the New Democracy and myself yesterday. At the time I was speaking, SYRIZA MPs said underneath that those who are going to enter hospitals - we called them 'SYRIZA Counties' - will be unpaid. You come today with this text and say that they will be financed by European money. I mean, Mr. President, the money doesn't go to the unemployed, it doesn't go to medical staff and doctors. The Greek people will know that you will fund SYRIZA's people to make ruffles and solve problems. That's how I understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u123	Quiet! Mr. Triantafylides, you have said so in detail. The Minister for Health, Mr. Xanthos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u124	Mr Colleagues, we have explained that this institution, ombudsmen and health service coordinators is an institution that currently exists in the European acquis. Too many European funds, to fund actions to support refugees and migrants, require that there be such a thing, that there are people of this type that can facilitate service and communication with vulnerable groups. Recently approved by ISF, a special European fund, a allocation of 3.3m euros, with which we have hired a hundred doctors, nurses, EAEC rescuers and four ombudsmen for the Aegean islands that will strengthen public structures. So it's an institution that makes it easier. This is not, of course, a mechanism for customer relations. We will define the procedure and the criteria and the funding will not be charged with the state budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u125	You said they'd be unpaid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u126	Be careful, unpaid are the coordinators of the services, who are workers of the public health system. Ombudsmen are persons who, because of special knowledge, can contribute to better service and communication with people who have real problems of understanding and understanding with services.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Minister. The explanations have been given. I think there is a common scope for clarification on this matter, because yesterday it was actually a debate. Be well! Mrs Catherine Papakostas - Ironopoulou - has the floor. She is the last speaker of Members, one of the ninety-three who had been written. They will not speak, with the data so far, nineteen colleagues. However - the list is here in front of me - if possible, even in the process later on, I will call them to speak if possible. Mrs Papakostas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I come from Tirana, together with other colleagues, and would like to say to the National Representation a phrase: we have received support and solidarity from the Albanian Government, within the framework of the Mediterranean Convention of twenty-seven Mediterranean countries, and the precondition for the application of the Schengen Agreement. We also received the blessings of Archbishop Anastasios, who found that Hellenism exists outside the borders and is the first to action, but unfortunately the division is divided within. Of course, I have to tell you that the Nation's shirt we wear abroad - and we rightly wear it - actually brings results. But inside, ladies and gentlemen of the government, which you have this legislative initiative, I must tell you that the phrase 'do not let us sanctify' here. And you won't let us sanctify, ladies and gentlemen of the government, no matter how much we want to... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, colleagues are very strong today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u129	But he's strong from all sides, as far as I can see. Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet, so that we can hear the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u130	As much as we want, ladies and gentlemen, to support - and we will support - those positive provisions - because it was our policy, and it was much more brave in the past, as a government, and I must know better than everyone what we supported and how we moved within the Ministry of Health and other ministries - I would like to give you the profile of this draft law entitled 'Accelerating government work and other provisions' codified to understand, in particular, what you will vote on. Watch out. Firstly, we have a multi-project with seven colleagues, the relevant ministers. Now look at the adventures of this multi-project. Even the provisions tabled by a ministry cover a very wide range of things and, unfortunately, I regret to say that they are both irrelevant to each other. Some of them are of general interest, others are very specific. In the group, we call them "photographics" in the political market, that is to say, you are serving a few days. It is what I told Minister Vernardakis that it is more or less the old phrase, the old politicians - politicians, for me - 'on our side', photographics. Now listen to this: you blamed us because we had left in December. The answer is - listen, listen! - that you brought a bill, which has this ambitious title, which was not accompanied by the necessary costing, the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, nor by the report of the Legal Adviser. So you have brought it to the Greek Parliament by attacking and insulting your fellow Members - and your Members - ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the government. The adventure of this bill doesn't stop there, unfortunately. The bill is withdrawn at the request of the troika, precisely because it was not costly. Then - adventure still has a history - the government decides to continue processing in committees, having included many provisions in both legislative acts and others in the draft law on transparency and democracy in public administration. However, a total of thirty-one provisions were withdrawn. Without a new text being tabled, colleagues of the government majority continued - because opposition as a whole has understood what is happening - the meetings in the Committees. I must say that this is an extremely original parliamentary practice and procedure. I must also tell you that you have done parallel legislative procedures with provisions which have been transposed from one bill to another. It is obvious that the Prime Minister and the Government, now also having society across the street, decided to dismantle panic and embarrassment, unravelling in two areas: in the field of radio-broadcasting, handsome and lazy - see the decision of the Council of State, read it - and, of course, in the parallel programme or what is left of it, to be quite clear. This is therefore another government communication eruption to present a so-called philosophical policy of the SYRIZA - ANEL government. As far as the social person is concerned, I would remind you - it is a bitter memory - that in the Thessaloniki programme you promised EUR 2 billion for social protection. The programme against the humanitarian crisis provided for only EUR 200 million, while in the 2016 budget only EUR 99 million entered. The New Democracy, our party, had the social dividend of EUR 450 million, ladies and gentlemen, from the primary surplus with which more than four hundred thousands of families benefited, which your government has abolished, because there is quite simply no primary surplus. Finally, Minister of Health, let me tell you that he is a reproach at this time - and I mean the word I am addressing you - to put Deputy Secretary-General at the Ministry of Health. If you from the Ministry of Health inaugurate this practice and intend to be followed by your other colleagues at the Ministerial Council, the Government, I think that takes us not in the 19th century, but much further backwards. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, because I wish to say - and I am closing, Mr President, and thank you for the tolerance - that there are provisions which are positive, and that relate to the follow-up of those that we have launched, and I support them. For not all the rest, I can say I'm sorry. This is where the phrase'saving a mountain' is, and has become a common one'. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting with the circle of rapporteurs with eight minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, may I have the floor, please, for a clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u133	What do you mean by clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u134	I would like to make a point of what Mrs Papakosta said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u135	It's not right. Hold it. You're the only Minister to make a dentist, a closure of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u136	But you have reduced a minister's seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u137	Keep them, Mr. Xanthi, please in your notes. Mrs. Jufi Meropi begins the circle of special speakers on the articles. The speaking time is eight minutes with a small tolerance for those who have something extra to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the debate on the bill and not only because that is what my special role as rapporteur was dictating to me, but above all because I was interested in hearing the views of colleagues from the opposition parties on a bill which, as I have said in my first speech, is socially required and necessary. I sincerely regret that the opposition not only shares the same view, but also proceeded with various designations, distortions, and even conquered provisions that are beyond obvious that they support and strengthen the social state in all its manifestations. It is now clear to me by listening to you, ladies and gentlemen, to repeat the same clear arguments - despite the clear answers that have been given to this Chamber - that you are not interested in being honest about the real hard data that has arisen for our country in the last few years of the cruel monumental austerity, nor are you interested in agreeing to their partial resurrecting even partially. You are actually confirming the different political position you have, namely the neoliberal concept of the organization of the economy and the role of the state, that is, the complete deregulation of social needs on the'more capitalism' axis or more politely 'free economy and less state', while in addition you are acting as if you never ruled in this place. We, for our part, and in spite of the difficulties we face, are planning and trying to act on a whole package of interventions, even small-scale doctors as you say them, so that we can halt this anti-social deregulation. We are absolved, even cowardly, to legislate on some necessary structural reforms for the benefit of the more efficient operation of public structures, while you systematically deceived them, since you have already methodically led them to a complete deterioration through redundancies, talking about a waste state, which you are even talking about today, through cuts and, of course, underfunding. Nevertheless, you say that in your days everything had been done successfully and the evil is that this three-ass SYRIZA came and cut off the bright course of the country's correction. Honestly I wonder how and when. Of course, with the help of your friendly media too, you may try to lure society into your own area of distortion of reality, but I think she even remembers and knows. And so, despite the fact that it is today at the edge of its resilience, it will not even forget today that you will put this bill in a negative position, which is certainly aimed at stabilising a enclosed, almost ready-made system which is particularly concerned with the social state. Continuing, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to the glorious spirit entitled 'Black Bible for Health', published a few days ago by the New Democracy, and proudly handed over one of its rapporteurs to the House, trying to convince us that everything collapsed in the health field in a year of governance of SYRIZA. To be honest, I have to say that I have been dissatisfied with the main elements of this publication and I will mainly speak as a combat doctor of the public health system for over thirty years rather than as a left-wing Member. In addition, I think with the same discomfort, I welcome this complaint and the whole of the workers, but also the patients, since they know very well who with nails and teeth kept this public system upright or tried to prevent it from demolition against the policies you have imposed. That is why, my dear colleague, Mr Asmakopoulou, who yesterday addressed me with a devaluation of our bill, I can assure you that I can show it with dignity to my fellow Members and my colleagues as a first step in implementing our policy in the right direction, and it will be spring and dalla noon. I should also like to respond to my colleague Mr Stylion - who chose to address me with a song with a message for fewer slogans and more work - that our place is small and the state of all of us is well known. I am continuing, ladies and gentlemen. The PASOK and New Democracy coup d'état, which cut to 40% and over the operating costs of the HSH, undermined public care and dismantled primary health care, also from yesterday to the House and publicly, through their emblems, the Minister of Health for increased mortality from the influenza epidemic, even asking for his resignation. Let me remind them, then, that on the basis of officially published scientific data from 2013-2014, our country was also in the first position of the countries of the European Union, with regard to influenza deaths in relation to its population. The incidents recorded this year deeply regret us and are the result of many factors, exceptionally infectious, but mainly the lack of vaccination coverage of the population, as is then. Catalysts have contributed to this, and the world's negative attitude to the World Health Organisation's orders for vaccination after the oldest fiasco to the UNHCR pandemic with thousands of unstable doses in refrigerators. I don't remember well. Did you then ask for the resignation of a minister or am I wrong? Although I would also like to talk about the articles, only one article on which very long debates took place. This is Article 33 which refers to uninsured persons. Here too, the New Democracy and the PASOK still claim that this provision has nothing to add and that they had resolved the matter. It is certain - and they have admitted it too - that possibilities are added, such as the possibility of carrying out free laboratory tests and the most critical one, the possibility of regular checks and re-checks at the external doctorate level, especially for those suffering from chronic and incurable illnesses. It also ensures for the self-evident, to cover the people who come to our country because of migration and refugee flows. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. Please, please, ladies and gentlemen, from nationalist krone, since this is a basic fulfilment of the principles of European humanism, and it is an international commitment to our country. Unfortunately, I do not have the time to talk more about the articles. I come to the verbatim of this report. This bill, with its multi-collectionality, actually takes advantage of the workers, the despised and the most affected by the crisis in a way that is substantial and nuclear left, will allow me to say, in the face of the logic of high charity or of the surplus in the direction of which, unfortunately, an important part of counter-population is being donated. Also, as I pointed out in my yesterday's position, the parallel programme is neither consumed nor expired in this bill. It will also be expressed with many other necessary bills that will follow, since it is our overall political agenda in order to remove the brutality of the tough Memorandum of Understanding and to open up new roads to the reconstruction and development of our country's afflicted society. Let me tell you that no matter how much you shout, no matter how much you sabotage our legislative initiatives, no matter how often you play the role of witnessing to our lenders, the tension, the vigour, the fierceness and the depth of this rampant trend and your position confirms that we are on the right track. And as Kazantzakis said, 'the right path is the upright', ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Jufi. Mr Vassiliou has the floor on behalf of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, it is clear that the government and SYRIZA in particular do not need to witness against the troika. The dates are often, densely and directly in Hilton, and you say them yourself. So, then, you don’t have to look for the witness. There is and you are the same. In December, the non paper had come out. All right, I understand that all MPs need to be synchronized on a line from the SYRIZA side. Be careful to see what you were given as a central line, which is the key error. We were not in a mood to be happy, nor to be sorry about the pain you made in December. What we have said, Mr Minister, is very specific: you have no cost. This beyond and outside what it has to do with the troika and whether you're good students or not in the country and if you're more troika than the troika, it's about not letting you lie to the world again. In other words, philosophical policy with no cost, no budget and no money, there cannot be. That story will end. That's what we told you in December. Or do whatever you want. You're a government. You still have the declared one. I think 153 are unshakable, so you say. You did the psychotherapy today between you two. Two days we hear you throw the front inside. You have a lot to deal with and you do well. These are your issues, they are not about the people. But what you're saying is for free. Do you know why? The good newspaper that captures the day and week of the propaganda, i.e. "AGEI", I see that it does not embrace your ostrich. I saw that the battle for the counterattack did not pass on the agenda and on the first page, not 'in the sardines' - I am not very poetic and singing, although here I am the dear and sympathetic parliamentary representative of the SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u141	Say about the Boyars list.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u142	You're getting a long story.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u143	Oh, you got it. I'm glad, we're in touch with the eyes. Well, listen. Because the counterattack for the philosopher didn't work, we went back to the chamie, Boyarns, etc. Listen to me. First of all, isn't the good newspaper going to advertise this very nice piece of legislation? Today I see nothing. Yesterday I didn't see anything. Yesterday the agenda came back. What's going on? Aren't we convinced this is going through communication? Listen to me, it's not going through communication. The place's boiling. Society is in the bars - I told you yesterday - all the productive bodies, the productive and creative parts of the country. But where you're sweating, they don't respond. What you brought today and yesterday is not interesting, so that people can be convinced. You know, in a budget of 52 billion, when you bring a legislative initiative of EUR 100 million - 52 billion in one year is state expenditure and 100 million in movement - you cannot call it a very important and very impressive move. There are a few things you need to do. And be careful, we laugh most people here, because SYRIZA colleagues have taken a line that says: 'The New Democracy wants nothing'. We didn't say that. We said that in the communication carpet we won't move up together. You'll walk on your own and wherever he gets you. As far as I can see, the good newspaper - 'AUGY' always speaks - does not see a result and turns it into a work: Boyarns, etc., tomorrow the great, great move by the leader, etc. But that's not what's going on. So here, we tell you something very simple, that you have the right to do whatever communications you think. Today the world is not squeezing, to say it simply folk. There's no reflection. Unless the good Minister thinks otherwise...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u144	Boyars hurts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u145	Calm down. What hurts and what doesn't hurt, we'll make the bill tomorrow. The good Minister and sympathetic to me - he must know - is not the historic footprint on the social project. It's nothing. What you must be sure of is that just these procedures over here that you bring, they really don't leave any prints.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u146	Please don't interrupt his sire.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u147	It's okay. Like government policy, my thoughts are consistent with an invisible thread. What I would like to say, Mr President, is that in principle we have said 'no'. What does that mean? It means we won't do you any good. That's what I think it's over. The articles - for it is also a debate on the articles - in most cases because they are of current importance, Minister, we have no objection. It is for the best of my life that my fellow Members are getting tired and asking questions again and asking questions. I would also like to see that when the voting time comes, we shall see what happens. However, I must not say two - three comments on some articles, which have their symbolism. Mrs. Deputy Minister of Labour came here and talked about the OAED and how she now shares the programmes. Dissolved OAED. Nothing else I have to say. We were right. It's over. I'll see you when the time comes. When we talk about the community centre, we need to understand something very simple. There is the Deputy Mayor of Social Policy - I tell you about local government - and there are municipal social policy enterprises. There's no need for another little shop in the municipalities. It's over and over! Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Economou... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u149	That particular one, yes. We'll explain it very well, because the ruffles will now be revealed. What we say about 'KALIKRATH' to our Minister, Mr Kurubli - and Mr Balafa - is that the committee he is setting up is of the utmost importance, because this committee for us is 'we are just'simply putting and placing our favourite likers or party members'. There is Parliament, it has its own institutions, it can be done without doing so for Kalikaratis, who you do not like as far as I understand it. The Decentralised Command Coordinator is an institution that currently does not exist. You're re-creating him. He was the old Secretary of Decentralised Command. As you put it, we will not agree. It's self-evident. In order not to trouble you, as far as health mediators are concerned, Article 61, Minister, is not to be voted on, because you can understand, of course, that very good Mr Brutsi spoke about party compatriots. Listen to me. They may not be coyotes, but there is another institution - which, at first, you claimed to be also unpaid, will not be charged with the state budget - which is at least a burden on the operation of the hospital, because these ombudsmen do not understand why they have the criterion of innocence when they are appointed by you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u150	From the agencies. Legislative, we expressly call it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u151	There are procedures like the Citizen's Counselor. You know it now. There are institutions within the Greek state.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u152	We expressly mention it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u153	We have our reservations. Do we have the right to have our reservations?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u154	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u155	We have our reservations. Listen. The parallel programme was probably the golden reserve to tackle the complete social dismantling of our state by farmers, by the social partners and government bodies, as Mr Tsipras has seen in a dramatic way. It was obviously his reserve.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u156	Please, shorten up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u157	If this reserve - and I close - was to come, it would come and play its part both in Parliament and in public opinion and the public, and the world would have a reflection of this matter. I am afraid, gentlemen, that I am saying no in the sense that I am pleased, that it is going to be the Bouzi army, which is still coming to an old Vatterlo, which has not been avoided. The emperor is still waiting for this army. And I'm afraid you'll be waiting for this one over the coming of the reserve that turns the climate. The climate does not turn with these sloppy, low-level and purely communication policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr. Economou. Mr. Aivatidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u159	Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u160	On behalf of the People's League - Golden Dawn. That's the title.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u161	You skipped it by mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u162	Alas!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. I shall start with the amendment from the Ministry of National Defence. It is a coup d'état amendment that circumvents the functioning of the Independent Authority of Public Contracts. As a moderation, it is a legislative act that is critical, and it should in any case prevent the House from voting in favour of it. The second ministerial amendment, which concerns the issues of the Bone, Dead and Management Units, in total, along with the relevant articles of the bill, contradicts the Orthodox Christian faith and seeks essentially to hit one of the main pillars of the nation, the Orthodox faith and the Greek Orthodox Church. I am going to some of the articles in the bill to be passed. We are unreservedly voting against Article 3 because it is essentially about grants from non-governmental organisations. As far as Article 5 is concerned, we will state'representations' in the sense that there is a need for some corrections to the 'CALL' and for the restoration of injustices. Articles 14 and 15 will be voted against. It's about incineration. In Article 19 on the integration of third families into moleculosis, we shall vote 'yes', as will Article 22, on the granting of a benefit for dangerous and unhealthy work for workers in solid wastes. The major and much-discussed Article 33 will be voted against, because it actually favours the migratory wave, which will choke Greece on the ground. Article 38 will be voted in favour, we will vote 'yes'. It concerns the ranking and salary rehabilitation of doctors transferred or transferred from EEAY and IKA to the ESS's medical profession. In Article 41, which concerns the hospital 'ERRIKOS DONN' and CEDEFOP, we say 'no', we will vote against it. Article 42, which deals with doctors' newspaper arrangements, will vote in favour of it, as will Article 44 for doctors from the countryside. The same applies to Article 45 concerning doctors. On the issues of the EMCDDA, we shall vote 'the present'. I would just like to make a comment on private ambulances. It would be preferable, Minister, to have two rescuers, as would the EAW. I would also like a very simple question to be answered: who will control, who will testify to violations regarding the distinguishing marks of private ambulances? So, if it suits the private ambulance to that of the EMCDDA, who will testify to this violation and what will the penalty be? As far as the O.R. list is concerned, I think it's an article put in the bill for impressions. It is impossible for the doctor to have visionary skills, so as to provide for a complication in a disease and to time the exact time, with a date, when to operate. He's not a superhuman doctor. You're a doctor and you know it. As far as the General Hospital of Thera is concerned, we will vote'residents'. It's an anonymous company that has revenues from multiple sources. And because it is very easy for some in this Chamber to accuse the Church, only to remember that the plot on which this hospital was built is a donation of the Holy Monastery of Agios Nikolaos Imeroviglios Thera. In conclusion, I shall refer to some data to be counted. The recession in 2015 amounted to 0.7%. 0.17% of our GDP is concerned with the needs of the immigration problem, about 300 million euros. We cannot afford this 0.17% to become 0.3%, 0.4%, as has been done in other countries of Europe, such as the Netherlands. I would also like to mention yesterday's confession to the Deputy Minister of Defence, Mr Vitsa. Mr. Vitsas confessed that SYRIZA and the government have a transnational action, an international role. I will say that this internationalist role runs counter to the national interest. This is confirmed by the NATO presence in the Aegean. With regard to the cost of hospitalising uninvited masses in our country, I would like to give an example to this House: several colleagues are doctors and know that treatment of tuberculosis for a person can exceed EUR 2 000 or EUR 3 000 or all 5,000. If it is resilient tuberculosis can even reach 100,000 euros. Do we have the luxury of helping people who come with tuberculosis? And there are too many of them. I tabled relevant documents concerning statistics and the prevalence of tuberculosis in the population yesterday. I will submit for the minutes the relevant document from the 'THE LANCET' where you can see the cost of treatment of tuberculosis. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Aivatidis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Yesterday I witnessed a sad incident. I saw the President-in-Office of the Parliament taking the view - as he thinks - of the Members of the Golden Dawn. And it is sad that I could never understand - I am a new Member - that a left, indirectly, but clearly, supports NATO interests and, indirectly, Turkey's interests in Greece. Golden Dawn will stand up to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u164	Thank you very much, Mr Aivatidis. No comments for the latter. Mrs Christophilopoulou, on behalf of the Democratic Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, allow me to make a comment, however, because yesterday I was confronted with you in the sense that I asked for more time. I would like to say that, compared to a previous Bureau Statute today, we have a better order in this House, which only democratically could not be said. At first I would like to make a comment, ladies and gentlemen, before entering the articles. We have heard President Kaklamani a moment ago that we should not deal with the refugee question. How can we not go to the refugee? We, as you will hear, will vote for most of the articles in the bill. I wonder, however, whether amendments can be tabled by the end of the day, not once and two, but rather by the end of the day, Mr President. This takes you away all right as a opposition from the day after - because in the Republic there is a rotation - to make the fuss you have made. Until the last minute, you're bringing in amendments! The amendment on the possibility for the Ministry of Defense by way of derogation of any legislation to conduct tenders can only raise questions. And it raises questions, because you know very well that you could have predicted what was going to happen for months, namely the refugee flows and the need for the country to meet both the commitments for hot spots and for everything. The current legal framework also allows quick procedures and short tenders and great opportunities to make the competitions you need to make, but also to make them transparent and in a way that allows competition. Do you, however, bring this infamous amendment at the last minute to cover what? The decision taken yesterday at the summit, ladies and gentlemen, was one and only. By 6 March we have an extension on the issue of borders. Grexit may have been removed yesterday by the decision of the summit, but the refugee was not solved. We've only got an extension! Of course, something else has happened. Conversion happened. We had Mr Tsipras - Head of SYRIZA and not yet Prime Minister - to say 'go back, madame Merkel, go back, madame Merkel'. And the markets ran! They didn't even need junkies you know. With the 'go back, madame Merkel' down markets, down Europe! It was all changing. Bourlotier the Prime Minister then! Today's report on what he says? He shows us a Prime Minister who instead of saying "Go back, madame Merkel," you know what he says? He says: "Madame Merkel, please send back the troika, send back the troika". That's the Prime Minister! Rejoice him! Today, the Prime Minister calls on the troika to come back after playing in one of the players. And now it has the world and the troika and the Europeans. He's got the whole world across the street. I'm afraid so. Then you tell us that we sabotage this bill. And I'm entering the bill. Why are we sabotaging it really? Because we vote for his articles or because we don't fall into your trap, say nice words? It is a bill that also has some positive articles and micro-deals, but it is neither parallel nor programme nor anything else. Mr President, for the brief time to come, I should just like to point out the objections, reservations or amendments that we are proposing in order to be able to vote on articles. I am going to Article 3 for grants from non-governmental organisations. In order to vote for this provision, we want to ensure that this provision does not concern local NGOs. And if you believe in decentralisation, you must regulate the law gap today, identify it for those NGOs that have a national dimension and at least four to five annexes. I'm going to article 13. In Article 13, Mr Minister of the Interior, we have every intention to vote on it. However, because I believe that you too want to ensure that the municipalities and, more generally, all - the municipal authorities, the local authorities - do not play against the most deprived, I propose that we set criteria: first, that someone be the beneficiary of the Solidarity Card. alternatively be a beneficiary of guaranteed social income or a third party, be a beneficiary of a TEI programme. If these three conditions are met, of course, there will also be the possibility of exempting them from tariffs. I now come to Article 21. We have a reservation here, and we want more clarification because we now have this and how it emerged only for this county. And I now go to Article 33, which has been a great deal of talk about. We will vote for it, but we want to point out something to you to help, because we may disagree politically, but we will not make the zero opposition you have made when you were opposition. Mr. Secretary of Health, be careful. Because in the last paragraph of this article you say that by the adoption of the law the booklets are being abolished, the right thing would be to say by adopting your own Ministerial Decision. Because if anything happens and a Joint Ministerial Decision is delayed, then the citizens will remain uncovered. You'll tell me you're ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u166	He's ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u167	Good, we recommend this to you for Article 33. And in any case, you understand why and with what we say it. Now look at this: with regard to the history of the Committee of Scientific Heads of Health - Article 47 - with regard to the legislative improvement you have brought, Minister, we are in agreement. We have pointed this out to you in committee. So we shall vote for that. But here I would like to point out to the Minister of Health two amendments that we have tabled as Democratic Incorporation. One amendment concerns the medical staff of the PEDY Units. Those who do coordination work must also have the allowance, corresponding to their ERC colleagues. That is the one amendment. The second amendment concerns the same case. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, I want your tolerance for a while, because they are individual issues which I think will improve. This amendment concerns the official hours of doctors and nurses at the Health Units of the PEDH, to be equivalent to that of the HSY, namely seven hours, continuous, breakfast and alibi, from Monday to Friday. Also, Minister, as far as the benefit for dangerous and unhealthy work is concerned, I would like to remind you of your question from 21-11-2013 - I will present it in the Minutes to get it - with which you requested this allowance to be granted to the natural therapists as well. And then you had the right to say it as Opposition. I support that. Physiotherapists are right. Can you see it? Please warmly. [[At this point the honourable Member, Mrs Christophilopoulou, presents for the Minutes the question mentioned above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, in one or two minutes I shall end. I want to tell you about Article 61. Look, Article 60 with which you are replacing the Citizen's Support Office in hospitals, already existed in 2010. Do you want to rename it? It's all right, baptism, it's the same. However, with regard to Article 61 on ombudsmen, let me tell you - and there are former health ministers from different parties - that so far the institution of the ombudsman has been - the foreign language alone. In other words, our fellow people who were either immigrants or refugees and did not know the Greek language were able to mediate. What you're going to do now with Article 61 is not that thing, unless you tell me the opposite and change it. You do not go to ombudsmen for the language, who are ombudsmen for the language are very useful and you need to find funding from the NSRF and there is no problem. You're going to make a parameter inside the ESS, where the ombudsman works for what? Excuse me very much, but if a Pakistani or Indian or any other ethnic co-man has a problem, he can translate. A disabled man, a man who is in need or has another problem, a Roma fellow citizen, why should he have an ombudsman? What role will this ombudsman play?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u168	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u169	I therefore think, Mr President, that we should not go to this solution which differentiates and makes our fellow citizens two categories. I hope that you will be able to take into account these improvements that we have proposed, because we really have every mood to vote on them. I shall conclude by saying this: Good! You brought this bill. We shall vote on several articles. We show you our good faith. It is not going to solve the problem of the country without a great deal of consensus. Very big problems don't solve that. And because this large consensus tended to be created in July and you had the support of too many Members to keep the country from leaving the euro, this consensus seemed to be unbuilt. And unfortunately, you are now collecting the hands of your actions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mrs Christophilopoulou. My colleague from the JRC, Mr. Ioannis Delis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are to move away from yesterday's sitting and today's sitting some meaningless two-party fights, even old cuts, or do not stand up to the very few hidden racist speeches of some New Democracy MPs and wants to look into the substance of yesterday's and today's debate on the bill that we are discussing, then it will easily distinguish its main features. On the one hand, co-government ministers and MPs are making a struggling effort to banish their anti-population policy, to present it as pro-collegiate, compared to the previous governments. On the other hand, New Democracy and PASOK MPs are looking for the forgiveness of their own governance, pressing and making use of SYRIZA's government policy, which, of course, continues on the same line as theirs. And there's the crowns, there's the controversy, there's the controversy! What's that for? Do you make this noise for any big benefits to the people? Are you fighting to get the people back some of these rights and their conquests you took, and do you continue to take them during the crisis? Of course not! So much trouble in here, so much fight for so few crumbs. Let's just say that a lot of them are poisonous. For the simple life of the people, you all take care of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u172	Please be quiet for the speaker to sound good. Everyone you want to talk to outside. Mr. Kegeroglou, Mrs. Christophilopoulou, Mrs. Fotou, please clarify them outside. Sounds like a noise. Thank you. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u173	For the simple life of the people, then, take care of the time you give it all to the capital, to the large business groups! This controversy that is evolving between you two is true that it suits you very much. But for the people, it's dangerous. What do you say to him essentially all of you who supported the latter - for now, because with the debt settlement, after the evaluation, it seems that the next memorandum is coming too - a memorandum? You tell him to get used to living with poverty, with the hell of unemployment, not claiming and, of course, sacrificing the growth of capital gains. So in poverty, you train the people. Resigned you, subordinate to capital policy, which you all serve. At the same time, you are all voting for the Memorandum, the Memorandum. Bring in and bring the anti-grass measures with the sack. You keep loading people's families with new burdens. You are breaking their rights and their conquests, conquests of history for which the people have fought hard, such as insurance. And all this because? To save the country? Because they're enforcing us? Why don't you tell the truth? All, but all, the anti-grass measures, whether the memorials or the prior thereto, are the requirements of the capitalists, so that the machine of capitalist exploitation, the machine of their profits will work. That's why they support and trust you and the keys to their power. And here's the privileges, there's the motives, there's the capital subsidies and the business groups! Above all, competitiveness! But that is precisely the cause of the poverty of the people. Your own policy creates poverty. It's not falling out of the sky. And you're mocking the people that you're going to deal with it. How, then, are you going to do that? Would you square the circle? Look, or with capital you'll either be with the workers and the people. With both of you, it can never be done. And you, as long ago as ready, today and ever before, have chosen to be with capital. He said yesterday a SYRIZA MEP said that the title of the bill unfairs his content. And yet, if one reads it carefully, one will see that this title is perfectly compatible. Perhaps it would be more appropriate if it were to be called a 'parallel memorandum', since many of its provisions serve the anti-popular strategy either openly or covertly. Let us see, for example, the well-known universal access to public health, for which there is so much noise. Be careful, 'access' and not a right to health and free of charge. If you really wanted universal health coverage, you would have accepted, gentlemen of the government, the relevant amendment tabled by our party yesterday on public and free health care, hospital care and welfare services, so that they can be provided to all the people, exclusively by the state, without conditions and conditions, free of charge. We needed a few lines to write this and not forty articles in half the bill, as you do. You see, however, that this exclusive and free health, state, does not fit into your policy, into your system of barbarism. First of all, the Minister himself yesterday in his speech admitted that he was not so universal, although he would have wanted it, he said. The main thing for us is who's taking over this expenditure. Did the state and its budget, taxing the capital to keep the people healthy? No, of course not. You don't even think about that. Once again, the people are paying through the EEA, which is financed by its contributions for health, which is why you are constantly increasing them. You have the least poor people to pay for the impoverished, and that is what you call solidarity. Is it embarrassing in here to talk about universal health coverage, when you still, with an amendment you tabled yesterday, have you removed paragraph 10 from the first article of the bill which provided for full medical coverage, you know whom? Workers in the five months of labour wandering and the recycling of unemployment, the beneficiaries, as you say them, of the most vulnerable workers working for 400 euros. And then you talk about a class mark. You know, of course, too, that capitalism in its evolution does not recognize social goods. Everything is treated as goods, even health and education. You have not only accepted this, but you are strengthening it in every way. The Santorini hospital, for which you accepted yesterday and many commendative comments from New Democracy, PASOK, Potami, proves it. A business hospital, working self-financed, with all that that means to workers and patients, will be sustainable and competitive and carefree for the people. Here's who your policy pilot is. That's how you want all the hospitals to work. This is how the European Union's strategy dictates. In the same logic and strategy, Article 90 also moves, which makes municipalities benefiting the hospitals in their region, after they have wasted their citizens. Withdrawal it now, Minister. Finally, regarding the Minister of Education now and his position yesterday, you know, Minister, the act of Legislative content Arsenis, which criminalises school struggles, the well-known apprenticeships. The government and the Minister himself are exposed and accountable. Why - and we want you to tell us - while the original bill contained the abolition, in its final form, of this provision, and so the act of legislation remains? Now accept the JRC's proposal for its immediate withdrawal. As for the compensatory training described in Article 26, there is a very late start in supporting - we are slowly reaching the end of the year - and not by school, as we should, without additional teaching support in high school, with school-leaving centres bringing together children from other schools in nearby areas. And how will students go to them from far away schools and not even any prediction of moving them? Not to say they will be working with temporary teachers, with temporary replacements. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For special education and Article 84, which has to go as it is, the Minister defended the abolition, in essence, of the accession departments yesterday. He defended the Euro-Union strategy of inclusion, bailing against ghettoism and stigmatisation, says, children with learning difficulties or with disabilities small or large. He has, of course, omitted to tell us here that the theory of inclusion serves the objective of reducing state spending on education, which is a central objective of the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Delia, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u175	I'm closing, Mr. President. Two questions only for the Minister. Do children who can't follow learning rhythms of their class feel better? Aren't they stigmatizing? And anyway, who decides who dictates whether there will be specific training structures and inclusion courses? Politicians, Minister, or science that responds to the needs of these children? The accession departments, Mr Minister, to which thousands of children are attending, for some hours each according to their needs, are not ghettos. It is right, it is necessary for every student with special learning difficulties. That is why we invite you to withdraw Rule 84. We will become more specific about the other articles in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Delis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, fifty-seven members of the Educational Cultural Association of Heraklion Attica. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Barriotas from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning. Today is a day on which there are good news. Unusual for the country's political juncture. We are not leaving Schengen, at least until 6 March. That's what we learned this morning. Some celebrate this and some people say that the Prime Minister will come to the House, among others, to celebrate the great success, which is mainly the fact that an issue that, if you like, with the lack of SYRIZA's policy, is closed with an almost catastrophe and not a disaster. Either way, this time we did better than with the famous negotiation and the capital controls that ended up in total destruction. Let us also try to convince the media that there was a great deal of Greek success in negotiating. In fact, we hear that the Euro-Socialists are very pleased with the attitude of Greece. That's good. Really good, and I mean it. So welcome to the complex, ladies and gentlemen, the European reality in which Merkel can be a friend and an enemy - depending on the subject we are discussing and the timing - where the English, the British may be both inside and outside of the European Community and where the Greek politicians, the Greek governments and politicians in general may also be German-speakers and German-speakers, depending on the situation in which they exist and the interests of the country. Let us hope, then, that this is where antimony white-black populism is being permanently buried, which cost Greece, among others, the capital controls and many others I mentioned earlier. I'll come back to the bill. I heard many yesterday and the Minister, among other things, talking about health incision. To say, this bill and its regulations are a health section and indeed a bill that proves a left - hand political health plan. I fear that you are either underestimating, or you really do not understand the depth, extent and complexity of the crisis and the problem, not only of health but of the insurance sector, because they are in a interdependent relationship and are interrelated. The honourable Minister for Health has made a general ideological political position on the left, on justice, on visions, on equality, etc. . In these positions they return, you will allow me to observe, systematically some by treaty errors. I won't lie, in my opinion, they're wrong. The first is the constant confusion of charity and income management with the introduction, if you like, of social fair and permanent solutions that redistribute income for the weak. There is another thing about charity or the distribution of money from the state corps. In any case, it is not left-wing politics to characterize all pensioners horizontally, regardless of income, with 6% for health and at the same time to cover everyone as insurers and strategic mispaid, everyone. This is not a policy of equality and equality. It is populism, it is a policy of levelling up and consolidating inequalities. It is not a left-wing policy to deregulation of the insurance system. The Minister's right. He's not here now. Systems are indeed mixed with insurance contributions and the budget, and they are such because they are trying to be fair and to be fair, they are setting criteria, precisely what this regulation does not have for uninsured people. It does not have criteria and it cannot function without criteria, so since you are going to make the propaganda cover everything, when you bring the ministerial decisions that are planned to work, and there will also be restrictions. What are you actually going to do? No big reform, no big change. Perhaps it will be welcome - and it will be welcome - for the current privileged system, which in any case covers a large part of the two and a half million uninsured people, who are hearing that they will be covered by just a hundred million. Interesting. Since there is so much ease in calculating the costs, why don't you say so to the State General Accountancy Office, which has black at midnight and which states weakness? Why don't someone go from the Ministry of Health, in which they seem to be very easily counting the costs, informing the General Accounting Office of the State, so that we can have a report which details the costs? I would remind you that the rough report submitted before Christmas together with this bill says that it is not possible to budget the costs of this regulation. I often hear from the Minister and others a favourite phrase. It speaks of the tendency to share in favour of the public free health system. Here is another error in the Treaty, the bad habit of confusing the concept of state, of what belongs to the state, and to the State, which is two things completely different. Public good and state property are different things. You always talk about the state, not about the state. There's also a fundamental lie, that's free of charge. The free has died for many years, everyone who works in the real economy knows it, and public care is not free. It is paid, it has a cost, which is covered by insurance contributions and taxes. It is paid by the retreat, if you wish, of civil society, which thus creates the social state and social protection networks for the weak. It costs money, it costs money, and it is precisely because it is not free, precisely because it has social costs, it costs society, no one is entitled to take any view for any reason and much more on ideological grounds, on ideological grounds, on ideologies and impediments. The criterion can be no more than the maximisation of the collective investment. Efficiency and cost-effectiveness need to be the criterion, not ideological concepts of state-of-the-art or 'public' system. You don't build a system saves good state. That can't be the target. You're building a system that saves and is well effective, whatever it is, public, covered by public expenditure, from public budgets and contributions, but state. I hear there is no mood for mergers and reorganization. This means practically with the current situation that while you are in favour of a public-state system, you are basically condemning public hospitals, state institutions in collapse, for the simple reason that there is no funds to support the fragmentation and the extent that they currently have. You don't even have money for broken glasses and for oil from health centers. That's why you're addressing the Ottas because there's no money. Obviously, the system cannot be maintained and it will get worse if there is no reform. That's the truth. To get back to the beginning and finish by my time, the bill with nothing is intruding. It is mainly a deposit of discomfort and acknowledging the deadlock of a political state-runner who is aware of the health system's problem as a shortfall in the investment of further money. It was never that health system problem, it was never just that of the system. It was a problem of efficiency, cost-effectiveness, efficiency of services, regulation etc. This draft law makes some changes and even syndicated, mainly focused on the fairness of many times requests or loose ends of nurses and health professionals. But the system is not built for health professionals, it is not built for workers. It's built with the workers for the patients. And for the patients in this bill there is hardly even any indirect reference. In addition, the remaining seven ministries that participate in the party to the amendments, which continue in this complex glimpse of amendments, continue the well-known, what all the previous ones have done and do so in the same way and with greater intensity: the nominations, ruffles, the extension of the client state, new committees, appointments from here, appointments from there at the last minute and night, some of the problematic ones - not to say perfume - amendments, of which I shall just comment on two, Mr President, and I shall end as is the amendment to refugee. It is very left for the army to take on the refugee issue in the first place. Very left! It makes perfect sense from a left-wing government to instruct the Ministry of National Defence to deal with the refugee problem by direct assignments, and indeed with that Minister of National Defence, with the specific political and ideological features he has, which are far from your own - at least that's what you're saying to us. Will you vote, ladies and gentlemen? Will you entrust the military with handling the refugee? Will you pass on to a - according to your perception and correct me if I am wrong - by definition reactionary structure to process the refugee and with the characteristics that it has today and with direct assignments by that ministry with the tradition it has? Is that left policy? That's how left policy becomes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u178	You're short, Mr. Barriotta, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u179	I'll say a word about the health ombudsman. With the exception of what Mrs Christophilopoulou said about interpreters, there is no need for new structures. As a doctor from the inside, I haven't taken so many years that there are several payrollers - and I don't know what analysts, etc. The hospitals I was working for. We don't need any more lumped structures. The social service that operates needs hospitals on this particular subject of the interconnection of the poor with society and the hospitals that exists, does not work, has shortcomings and needs to be upgraded. But, you see, the recruitments there are done through ASP and are a little problematic. I have one final question, and I will close - I have embezzled the time - for the great 24 million euros of diagnostics. If they are actually debts secured in 2014 for specific medical operations by specific medical centres, which I do not know, I would like to ask, I have a sense of being broken and distributed to more beneficiaries - that is to say, third parties - and on what criteria the rest has been chosen against others. So, why the clinics and not the rehab centers? If there's money to be distributed. The overdue debts of the State and the Ministry are huge. Or it is EUR 24 million budgeted for some specific people - who I do not know if they can or should have to take it, that is another word - or that is EUR 24 million that are left over and go over debts, so we need to know how and why they are distributed in this way. Thank you and apologies for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr Barriotta. There is a flexibility, from what you have seen, in time for the rapporteurs, because the very nature of the bill with the many issues and the many articles gives the ground and most of them make specific places for these articles or suggestions, etc. In other words, it is essential to discuss this. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. I want to begin and remind you of the end of one, in my opinion, of a historic film by Thodoris Maragou, "Learn my child letters", where the very sympathetic actor and child with disabilities - so ended the work - Nikos Kalogeropoulos, while his father, the compromised teacher, the memorable Vasilis Diamantopoulos, lied to the court, he said the historic conversation: "The truth, man." That was the end of the work. Why am I saying it? Recently we saw a MRB poll, a company that gives 3.5 to 4 points different from SYRIZA in New Democracy. I have no reason to question her. However, I would like to remind you that this company on 3 July 2015 gave 49.8% to 'no' and '50.2%' to 'yes'. The final result you know. It was 61.31% for 'no' and '38.69%' for 'yes'. And we know very well that if the story of parentheses had become a place, the whole political system would have been affected because, with a 'yes', this government would have no reason to exist. I would like to end by saying that today there are too many professional groups on the streets. Social groups, I'd say. Not all of them, not all of them. Not all of them. So this is where a question comes in. Does the historian have to solve it after years or do we now, today? What's the lie and what's the truth? What is the reality and what is the exaggeration? I often hear here in this Chamber, as if the September elections were invisible, they have never been invoked by many exaggerations, in fact, in the January elections, for which there have also been self-criticism, and many of them have been admitted - and I am first - that yes, ignorance of danger existed, wrong choices have been made. It's not bad to say. Strangely enough, however, while elections were held in September, which is a leading political event, they are being silenced. There was no exaggeration called, you know. There is a tiresome, I would say, persistent effort in this Chamber, all of the country's suffering to be attributed to the time SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks ruled. I will be the devil's attorney, and I will say: Why do polls, which ask so many unnecessary and incredible questions, do not ask two - three questions like, "What do you think, guys? Is the time really to destroy the country?' Is SYRIZA and ANEL the fault of leaving billions of nights, free of charge to foreigners, to Swiss accounts? SYRIZA and ANEL are responsible for the banks' naval loans? SYRIZA and ANEL are to blame for leaving millions and billions without any guarantee? These bankers are indicted today and I could say their names - I haven't learned to beat someone down - but I don't have to. For both Proton Bank and the Welfare Aspas and the Post Office and for the First Business Bank and the Agricultural Bank. Who's been taking the plays for twenty years? Who were they? How did the government then break down public money? To make a real analysis. How was the Olympic party? I mean, I was one of those guys who wanted to be the Olympics. A party didn't want SYRIZA then. Let's tell the truth. And from 4 billion, it reached 40 with direct assignments. And who were the fellas in there? What happened at the Stock Exchange party? Let us see whether the argument that over a year the country has been destroyed is indeed credible. I say we made mistakes. Let me say it again. Has the country been destroyed in a year? Because I see a monotonous tiresome effort from the Qualified Opposition that voted in July for the third agreement, in my view,'memorandum' against many. Did anyone triumph for this deal? Did you see anyone coming out and saying 'yes, I'm happy'? It's just that the Greek citizen trusted a government that didn't, does not, and he's not going to put his hand in honey, friends and friends, colleagues. I repeat, those who are on the blocks at the moment, whom I fully respect, must be informed of who put his hand in honey, who made the country a weak link, who arrived here. Who? I want it answered now. Because I keep listening to a unconvincing argument. A part, unfortunately, of the civilian staff, with some entrepreneurs, with some bankers and three - four canalarchs ran the country. The answer to me is clear: Weak link and therefore accept decisions that do not express it, made it for forty years of governance. Those who are responsible, if I am, yes, take responsibility. It was a parentheses. And the referendum shows how insistent, how incredible rabies, because if the MRB poll or the channels were to say yes, the government would have left on that day. We would never know about the lists, we would never know about the prosecutors. My friend Alexander Triantafylides told you before. I come to this for as long as I have left, Mr President, for which I do not want to consume it. I listen carefully here and by the committees... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Do I have two minutes or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u182	You have, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u183	I have heard the New Democracy spokesman say that you are going to put one of your mediators, again intrigue, to appoint one of your own and something like that. If that is the case, I will agree with him. But I want to ask why I'm from a village. Didn't he know that in the villages there are elderly people with old dementia? Didn't he ever hear that there were people in strollers, didn't he hear there were mental patients? Didn't he know that there are people who can't go get an application at the center of Mrs. Fotio, because they can't? And there's always a good Samaritan - in the village I was a municipal councillor and we had these problems - who was intervening if he wanted to, though. Is it not necessary, then, to have an institutionalised person intervening in the State for basic rights? And come along, Mr Brutsi, to shield the credibility of these people. I'll be with you. I do not want them to be appointed party. Oh, no. You point them out. I hear about Article 4 incredible things. 'We shall not vote on it.' Well, thirteen regionals are asking for it. It's eight hundred new jobs in the municipalities. Thirteen regions want it, even Tatolis, who is yours, who is in the Peloponnese, for his region wants it, with some tensions. Where do you react? In what? The two articles? I'm one of those people I'm saying that every year two and a half thousand people are lost. Both Articles 51 and 74 allow intensive care units to be manned. Again, what are you not voting for? What are you smelling? And I'll say again and finish on Article 33. I did not say that the matter was resolved, nor did the Minister say so. It's an effort for the 3 million that we inherited uninsured. We inherited uninsured, colleagues! We didn't do them! Look at the numbers in January. 26% in unemployment found it. We found unemployment. Do we want, or not, a fundamental improvement at social level? I didn't say everything was solved. I don't want to talk about the O.R. lists again. A lot can be done. I cannot understand under any circumstances - I shall end, Mr President, and thank you for your understanding - the refusal to take this bill. I say again, glorious field at least here. No more micropsy, no more opposition. We don't make mistakes because we made mistakes. I say it, I admit it. We're going to take it out. It's going to take off. Shouldn't he once stop? Those who have listened to my speech have had no hesitation to say good words about how the Chief of Staff has dealt with the refugee issue and I will do so in the future. There are things that unite us. This bill had to unite us. Thank you very much for your understanding, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Loverdos will speak from the parliamentary representatives, because there is a serious obligation outside Parliament, then the Chairman of the KIC's parliamentary group will close the circle of rapporteurs. Then the Minister will speak, Mr. Kurublis. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, those who speak in this Chamber, using the first person and this patronage speech, will do well when they refer to numbers, a year of government MPs, to look at the reports of the State's General Accounting Office. Heavy and long talk with inaccurate numbers and with humiliating, immortality and philosophical speech no longer pass to anyone. Here we are at critical times and decisions, and we must be very specific. With open fronts that don't close, as I said yesterday and with the "barefalaki" number 2 of loose ends again, for the second time, the road to the country in 2016 with the deferrals that keep the private economy pending. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I refer to the twenty who tabled a question to Mr Kotzia a few weeks ago, asking him to say to the Minister of State Venizelos - those colleagues wrote - what Mr Kourkoulas did not do in relation to the Borgens list, a subject that the 'SGEI' today has been the first topic. Twice we asked colleagues to think that on the dates that Mr Venizelos was not Minister, they were wrong and, secondly, to apologise to Mr Kourkoulas because Mr Kourkoulas never saw or accepted a letter or contacted the Minister of Finance in this particular state. Today the newspaper "SYNEY" is making it a matter. The fact that what has to do with PASOK is not true to them, and I would ask my fellow Members not to go away with these kinds of texts, because I can also ask if any of them were involved in an attempted murder last night. I'm wondering, too. He tells me it doesn't matter, and it's over. But when the subject gets publicity, aren't these unacceptable things? I would like to say that, as all the Members of the Democratic Integration deserve, respect for our resignation, respect for its sacrifices, respect for what it has offered. No one has the right to mud to leave suspicions. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Let's go down to the draft law. I want to make arrangements on matters relating to the central body of the draft law and the Ministry of Health. I am referring to Article 56 on transplants. I want to tell the Minister to include in his own reports the number of transplants in relation to the other countries of the European Union. I had given a lot of battle to raise that number. Since then, things have not been in the knowledge of the Greek Parliament. I would ask the Minister to give his data. And to ask both of the ministers whether they and the Secretary General of the Ministry are body donors. It's very important that they be donors. I'm a donor. I have asked Parliament a thousand times, as Minister and as a Member of Parliament, to offer and I would like to ask whether the ministers who bring the provision, which we are voting on, are themselves donors. I would like to agree - and I say this for example, because Mrs Christophilopoulou will provide a detailed list of the provisions we agree with - with Article 45 for disabled people. I agree with the interventions of the Ministry of Education, Mr. Friend and Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, on Article 29, which removes injustices and barbarism and on the interventions of the Open University. But here I would like to make a point to the Minister and to the Minister who spoke yesterday. When she spoke, I told her underneath that, in fact, the draw is an unjust - I agreed with her - a procedure. But many times we prefer something which is unfair, but which is inconsistent, in a country suffering from a lack of transparency and a lack of time. As long as there is the Greek state, it has such problems. I wonder: is the abolition of the draw carried out in the consciousness that the new choice, Minister, Minister, will be safe? Because if you transfer it to ministerial decisions, you'll be confused too. See what is best, for your own safety, but also for the subject and for those who are interested. I have listened with interest to what you said that there is a smaller number of interested parties. I didn't know. In any case, can the number of persons involved be covered? If it can be covered, next year will come out. If it cannot be covered and there must be exclusions, you must find the way to become known to the National Representation and be very clear and fair. We are opposed, ladies and gentlemen, to the wholeheartedly Greeks. And that's not a healthy institution. But he is indifferent and as such we hold him. No Minister for Education will risk making a change that he believes, but which in practice will prove to be a diabetic. The intact has helped this anachronistic institution of the pan-Hellenics to remain an institution for so many decades. Mr Vitsa, after the debate we had yesterday and the confrontation and the debate we then had, I tried to specialize in my proposal. Your amendment, as I said yesterday, will involve you personally or rather anyone who signs you. Ladies and gentlemen, when a Minister believes in the law of what he does and especially when he has to do with even 1 euro, he does what he believes and does not fear. If he does not think, however, what may happen to him as a mere congressman or as a private person if someone wakes up like the ones who for five years have been turning around in the nipples and said what demagogically they said and say "he is a thief" and a website follows this - for a thousand I say to you - you will suffer humiliation that you do not owe to anyone. And because you were a familiar face and before you were elected a MP, I would say you are not protected. Instead of this procedure, I tell you - and it is in your judgment - what we called you with Mr Kegeroglu and yesterday, namely that there is a legal procedure for public procurement, for hot spots in this regard, an agreement - framework agreement which allows supplies to be made quickly, that is, immediately, and in a flexible way. This procedure is also provided for in Article 4 of the Law 4155/2013. You should prefer this because this amendment, which we will vote against, and indeed with strength and intensity, exposes you and puts you in too many dangers. My last point concerns a specific provision - and I stress the development of the procedure, if necessary with the Bureau's permission, for the many amendments to say another word - on the minimum guaranteed income. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I have watched too many times, without being an expert or having handled it, the controversy with the Ministry of Labour, the Minister in question, which is also fragile and with colleagues from the opposition. Look, it doesn't make any sense like this. You should realise that the minimum guaranteed income is a framework institution. It's not just financial aid. As Mr Kegeroglu said yesterday in his speech, he includes issues of reintegration into the labour market with participation in programmes, which, even if the person identified and invited to offer work, denies, is also out of programme. It also contains a number of social benefits, such as its inclusion in the social invoice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done, Mr. President. It's a package that we started in thirteen municipalities. SYRIZA's government has stopped it and is now trying with fragmented, individual and, I would say, fragmentary arrangements, which will be -! - provide some help to the weak, replace an institution that fought him, without knowing why. Maybe from a sterile opposition mood. So be contributors when you're defending something and judging something. If this minimum guaranteed income institution is indeed the right thing to do, and since with the pressure of the troika - which you did not want - you put it in the third, unnecessarily, memorandum, look at whether you can now use it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u186	Mr President, personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u187	Yeah. For the economy of the debate and its substance, however, they have asked for the floor for one minute in relation to two reports by the previous speaker, Mr Karayannides, on behalf of the Members, who said that they had made an imperial position on the Borgians document - in other words, to clarify - and Minister Vitsas did not deal with the issue raised. Let us give the explanations and move on to the debate. Mr Karayannides has the floor for a short time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u188	There is still a specific attack against the Members who signed this question. It is strange, of course, that after the answer from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs yesterday, they insist on the same logic. We are not going to apologise for just one reason. The Foreign Ministry's answer puts the gentlemen who accuse us of apologizing. I'm explaining. On 8-10-2012, the consul's telegram from Düsseldorf on the subject: Inviting North Rhine-Westphalia Minister of Finance to signatories - in other words the consul - to discuss the issue of economic crisis and cd with evidence of tax fraud depositors. In other words, Mr. Kourkoulas, who has been a State Secretary for Foreign Affairs since October 2012, has been aware. And the second...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u189	What does man say? It wasn't Venizelos. It was Mr. Avramopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u190	Mr. Loverdos, I heard you. [[Noise - protests from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Please, Mr President, protect me from vocalisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u191	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u192	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u193	The shame is shared by everyone as it suits them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u194	Please! One minute to clarify matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u195	Shame on you. It's disgraceful! Mr President, if possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u196	Why are you shouting? Please stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u197	I imagine colleagues respect the dialogue. I'm on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u198	Shame on you. Lassopogue. Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u199	Record what Mrs Christophilopoulou says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u200	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, please, stop. Do not write to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u201	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u202	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, please. Calm down. Stop it now. Here you go, Mr. Karayannides, for a minute without characterizations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u203	I'm on it. There is, of course, the most important of all, which is the consul's telegram to Mr Mavraani, which goes on to say that following the telephone instructions I have received from Mr Bourrain, I have kindly rejected his proposal to the Minister of Finance of North Rhine-Westphalia. And here I would like to say this: that convergence was of a uniform nature. If colleagues are allowed to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, leave the voices!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u205	If colleagues claim that Mr Kourkoulas is a clerk at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and does not know what Mr Avramopoulos has done to tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u206	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u207	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, what's wrong with you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u208	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u209	Do you want me to call you back to class?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u210	If the rulings are finished, I will end this: Mr Kourkoulas was State Secretary for Foreign Affairs. If they admit that Mr. Kourkoulas did not know what Mr. Avramopoulos did, you understand what foreign policy we had in the three years!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u211	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u212	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u213	You'll be a minute. Wait till you hear from Mr. Vitsa, you might want to know about the other matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u214	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u215	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, please. Wait a minute! But it's not possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u216	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u217	Don't expose yourself. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Don't answer, please. Mr. Triantafylides, please! You're forcing me, and I'm saying names! Please. Please. We have a whole process ahead of us. Mr. Vitsats will speak, the clarification requested by Mr. Loverdos will follow and we will proceed with Mr. Koutsoubas. Please respect both the overall economy of the debate and the substance of what is said. Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u218	First of all, I oppose the view that the Armed Forces are by definition a reactive state structure. I don't like her. It's a point of view. If the people decide in their respective view to give them a chance, I imagine they will do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u219	You said it, not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u220	And Proudon might have said it. Because I am interested in the amendment by the Ministry of National Defence to vote with the greatest possible majority, because it concerns an issue that concerns us all, I have explained yesterday and I repeat this yesterday: we have created an integrated budget with a ceiling as the Ministry of National Defence. I said numbers. We are working within this budget, taking into account the experience of the co-legislative ministries, the experience of our own, the experience of foreign agencies, the High Commissioner for Home Affairs, etc. to predict everything. All of this - let us say everything - will have competition - such or other - procedures. But there is - and that is why I mentioned the European Union directive - the possibility of unforeseen crisis - because we did mathematics yesterday, not today grammar - which I cannot say what it is. At the same time, I tried to explain why this is happening in private. I hope that this procedure will not be followed at all, but as an option, in the sense that those who have always made a budget, such as the engineers who undertake a project, at the end they put some unpredictable ones, which are usually about 10% - I do not say that this is - and that is what we need to do. We've calculated, if we make rough contests, even the procedures...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u221	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u222	I shall conclude, Mr President. That's the point. And because I am a defender - you know - of the competitive procedures and the clipboards and general and legal, etc., we have to agree...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u223	Since December they have been the managing authorities. Now you remembered them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u224	Mr. Kyriazidis, if you are a prophet, and you can predict the unforeseen, it is another science. So I say that the issues of competitive procedures, of which I am a fanatical supporter, and I hope that we are all here, should have transparency and a reasoning and a number of other things. Why not forget that former politicians are in prison today or are doomed, despite the fact that they have done competitive procedures. They've done competitive procedures and it's turned out they've been taking a bunch of massages.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u225	Hey, remove those too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u226	So I say that I am a supporter of this data. It matters, Mrs. Vulture, and who is the one doing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u227	That's what we're afraid of.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u228	Isn't that right? It matters who he is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u229	Yes! It's you. We know who he is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u230	And from your party - not from you - they've done that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u231	Because we know, that's why we're scared!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u232	Mr. Vitsa, don't open matters. We're closed. Mr. Loverdos has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u233	Mr President, I understand that it is the Secretary of the Communist Party to speak. So we have to close this conversation. Minister, I did what we could. We have made specific arrangements for you. We've exploited our experience. You're not accepting it. Thank you. I hope you're not involved. But I would remind you, and I would ask you to compare the way in which we are dealing with such sensitive issues and the way the Minister argues, who is the head of the Ministry for similar issues in other times. One of the prisoners. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Karayannides, don't go on with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u234	Yeah, but let me talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u235	I would like you to have the courage and political straightforwardness and eloquence to have asked for apologies. You didn't. That's your right. You will be judged by the citizens. However, I am telling you in the most unequivocal way...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u236	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u237	Mr. Karayannides, please. Everybody's judged. That's self-evident. So don't point it out, Mr. Karayannides. However, the speaker has the right to repeat it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u238	But you stopped me when I was talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u239	I'm telling you in the most unequivocal way. Since you do not agree to apologise, while you are a politician, who has made wrong reference to the name of the Minister for Foreign Affairs at that time, which you consider as if you were not a year government MP, that if something knows the diplomatic office of a Minister, it is known by the Secretary-General, the Secretary-General and all the majority Members, and since you were wrong in making a reference to the name of the Secretary-General in relation to the 2012-2013 correspondence - when you say - since all of this was wrong - and your newspaper today said that you were doing it wrong - and you do not have the right to apologize, I say one thing and that is what I am finishing and I am not coming back. Twice I've talked to the National Representation, and today is the third. We will not allow you - neither of you - to do the trick you have been doing for four years on our side. You do it on purpose. You know who's responsible for doing something wrong to you and you're choosing to be about us. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. From now on you'll see your powers fall. It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. Loverdos. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please! It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u241	Enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u242	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, please. Don't make me speak namefully about colleagues. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, everybody, stop! The floor is given by the Secretary-General of the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u243	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u244	He's got to get out of the plug. It can't be done!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u245	I'm not getting out of the plug for you, ever!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u246	Stop! Mrs. Christophilopoulou, what's this all about at noon?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u247	All right, what it was, the TV channels got it now. The show is well known.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u248	I'm afraid that's the way it is. Come on, Mr. Kutsuba. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u249	Ladies and gentlemen, every time you want to pass a new package of anti-popular policies, there is also a communication - let's say - a fireplace to mislead the people. At this time you have a couple of anti-grassroots choices: insurance, tax, agricultural, labour and other mobilisations, and with NATO in the Aegean Sea, refugee and immigration. This time the firework is called a "parallel program", which you use to get through the impression to our people that you are supposed to be in the difficult and suffocating climate of your own choices, you can also take some philosophical measures. But "carbons the treasure" once again. These measures are various arrangements and regulations, most of the bureaucratic types, like your ministers and MPs confess to their interviews and so on. A lot more, arrangements and arrangements are not even pro-social, but business, leading to further privatisation, marketing of the health system. The function of the Santorini Hospital, for example, on such criteria, proves it. All of this at a time when your policy has made the lives of the people's families worse. It takes enough enthusiasm to talk about relief when you have agreed that at least until 2018 at the already cut-off state health expenditure will not find any more than five. You do the same for the drugs, while the welfare dropped a knife, cutting the funding to 50%. For uninsured people, baptize the fish and give them the right to pay for it, as are the insured. Here, and those who work can't pay for their health, their examinations and their medicines, which are cut off by the EEA and the rest of the funds. How will unemployed workers, employees, farmers, professionals that grow, when scientific studies show that 22% of the population cannot go to public health units either because of costs? 25% reduces costs for electricity, for food, to pay the increased cost of medicines. For example, the heart disease forced to cut off their medications increased from 13%, which was in 2014, to 16.5% in 2015. Is it really a left-wing, philosophical policy to put municipalities and regions with citizens' money, i.e. fees and taxes, to pay to operate hospitals, health centers, to feed and house rural doctors and open the hospital - business Santorini - or other islands tomorrow - which will be financed by new fees and taxes to the municipalities? Instead of hiring qualified rescuers for health center ambulances, you have local government officials operating them, as if they would not carry patients, but any product. It is so left-wing that your policy, which led the New Democracy to protest, is in fact the 'black book' it issued, because you stole its own programme and why you did not implement your earlier declarations. Gentlemen of government, the rabies don't make the priest. Your policy is a follow-up to the black, anti-population policy followed by the previous ones, the New Democracy and the PASOK. You are worthy of managers of the interests of business groups. That is why all those who have spoken and agreed to and signed the third memorandum criticise you for speeding up your anti-popular walk. If you really wanted to pursue a policy outside the direction of the European Union, the memorials, which would actually relieve the people's strata, you would vote on the JRC's amendment to uninsured people, which at least says they have full medical, pharmaceutical, nursing care free of charge, without any participation and payment. You would vote on the amendments to provide free meals for all students, for free supply of electricity to those living in extreme poverty, for the abolition of the single excise duty, for VAT on heating oil, for gas for domestic use. The people pay enough in direct and indirect taxes, contributions and various others. But you do not, because your love for the people ended where your love for the great capital began. And all this shows the limited margins that today's government has for the people, in its attempt to serve the urgent and unnegotiable needs of capital and in circumstances where the economy is very difficult to recover. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the government has chosen the tactical 'carrot and whip' to pass its policy and the evaluation measures. On the one hand, we have words of sensitivity to the people, measures of supposed relief, calls for preliminary dialogue and, on the other hand, for bans, slanders, such as the ones that you have launched in recent years at the expense of the farmers on the blockages and other parts of our people who are mobilising, who are currently fighting and are on the way because of precisely your policy. You are calling for dialogue - fraud, at the same time as you are not talking about the requests made to you by farmers, such as tax-free, for example, at EUR 12 000, to have tax-free oil - such as shipowners - or to have a cheap current tomorrow - such as industrialists, who are elementary so that these people can survive and not disappear. The fact that you say absolutely nothing about all this, that you do not withdraw your reinsurance proposal - an abortion, the fact that you have made a flag of the issue of the principal farmer, which is the instrument for dumping, in addition to other things, small and medium-sized farmers, and for the land and production to be concentrated on a few large capitalist businesses, shows what and who you are serving. You are talking about improvements to the Insurance Act, and in fact all you change is the transitionality of measures, namely whether they will be implemented in one, two or three years' time. We are telling you this once again, as the whole world calls it, and the workers and the employees and the employees, the other scientists, the farmers on the road: the insurance plan is looting. The games that took place are just the beginning. We still have a road ahead of us, and the workers will escalate their struggle and with the forty-eighteen-hour total strike, when it comes - if it comes - in the House, and if it needs other forms, to claim them. The people now have rich, valuable experience and can understand that what you say to them, that the evaluation is supposed to be the last canvas, and then there is light on the horizon, that is, exactly what the previous governments have said, is just air that is not. Every evaluation will be accompanied by new, harder measures, measures permanently, not temporary, and the debate on the measures that need the next period, working and budgetary measures, has already begun to take a primary surplus of 3.5% in 2018 and goes by saying. At the same time, you are making progress in privatising strategic sectors of the economy. The day before yesterday I was in "LARCO", one of the flagships of our mineral wealth. We warn you: Do not dare to hurt the employees of "LARCO" with threats to staff reductions, starting supposedly from the contractors first, when new recruitments have to be made. Do not dare to harm rights, incomes conquered with blood rivers and sacrifices of many years of struggles. You cannot hide behind reports that the global economy of angomaha, that estimates speak of the possibility of a new, possibly more deeper, and a synchronised crisis, at a time when competition between strong capitalist economies is becoming dangerous. All the above, which is of course true, confirm the need for the people's struggle to turn its fire to the main opponent, which is the economy itself and the power of capital, imperialist associations such as the European Union, governments and parties that serve this path. This road, not only in 2016, cannot secure the basics for a decent life, but it sends workers to work to the deep ageing for an allowance of EUR 384. Ladies and gentlemen, no communal diversion can hide that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is escalating the attack on the people on all fronts, both on the front of internal policy and on the front of the so-called foreign policy. He continues the policy of previous governments, the New Democracy and the PASOK, at all levels. It is very important today for our people to understand that it is a united and unbreakable whole and internal and foreign policy. One is the continuity of the other. A government, which serves the interests, the profits of capital, which is taking steps to the detriment of its own people, sacrificing labour rights, makes perfect sense and then participates in interventions and in imperialist wars, in demilitarism, whatever pretext they may have at the expense of the peoples. We say this because the refugee situation pretentiously prepares the new round of interventions in the Middle East region, and the government has enormous responsibilities that has accepted NATO's involvement in the Aegean, because this involvement not only does not solve the refugee, immigration problem, but is exacerbating it. NATO involvement strengthens Turkey's military action and actions and in northern Syria, leads to the escalation of war and thus to more uprooted and more refugees. It's so simple. NATO's involvement is exacerbating the competition between NATO and Russia, which is manifested by the concentration of war media in the region and, of course, is increasing the risks of such confrontation and is definitely devastated, strengthening Turkish aggression, Turkey's provocativeness against the country's sovereign rights, as NATO is well known to not recognise borders in the Aegean. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government has serious responsibilities for the development of this problem. In spite of all the words of sympathy to the refugees, he is actively involved in these plans for the European Union's refugee - immigration, voted and celebrated for decisions leading to mass caging of refugees, migrants in Greece and opening up the cannabis, according to the needs of the great capital, of Europe in cheap labour hands. These needs serve the relocation programme of a zero number of refugees from Greece, Italy in other Member States, the hot spots for the sorting of these refugees. The contradictions between Member States and the management of the refugee question, which have been exacerbated recently, with border closures, Schengen and so on, are due to the different level of economic development and structure between the Member States of the European Union. The Communist Party of Greece calls on the people to be vigilant, to fight against these plans in the region, against NATO, and any participation by Greece in interventions and wars, against the European Union and its mechanisms - whether they be called Schengen, FRONTEX, or Dublin regulation - for direct transport of refugees, migrants from the countries of first host countries and islands in its final destination, unlike hot spots or relocation-grading centres, and in the essence of their caging here, for human and decent places of temporary hospitality under the responsibility of the Ministry of Migration Policy and without the presence of non-governmental organisations. And since the debate is about refugees, we must not forget the Greek refugees in their own country. With soul pain I was told by the inhabitants of Pontakome in Kozani - like other communities, Mavropige, Komanos, other villages there - that they are being forced to relocate without having to ensure the elementary infrastructure in order to stay in their villages. In the majority of them, these people rooted after the refugee of the 1920s there, in these places, and now they are unscrupulously unscrupulous - and I say again - the conditions necessary for the lives of their villages, which they have built with great pain and sweat. This is why other specific measures must also be taken. Of course, we will also present you with separate parliamentary interventions in the next period. After all - to conclude - on the way to fighting for overthrowing the system of war and poverty, refugees and immigrants is the solution for the people and the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. Kutsuba. Mr Mardas has the floor for a minute to put himself on an amendment. Then Mrs Fotou will take the floor on a legislative improvement, followed by Mr. Marios Georgiadis at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u251	Mr President, I too would like to talk about some of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u252	Here, Mr Marda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u253	Ladies and gentlemen, I am referring to the amendment with a general number of 243 and a special 47, which relates to the legalisation of certain expenditure incurred throughout 2013, 2014, 2015. It is expenditure of 280,000 euros, which were made and subsequently announced in the ‘DENMARK’. That is the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u254	Thank you. Here, Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u255	This is a legislative improvement to the draft law we are debating. It is about Article 4, that is to say, community centres. Because we have heard everything you say, that we are going to build shops in the municipalities and put our own people, I would remind you that community centres will be staffed by the NSRF, they have entered the NSRF and will be staffed with the NSRF procedures. However, since the remark you made, that anyway has to be linked to the social services of the municipality, is correct and that is our thought, it is made as follows: in the second subparagraph of paragraph 1 of Article 4 after the words 'local government I', the words 'in cooperation with the relevant Social Service' are added. So it's no shop, it's in the municipality, and it's in collaboration with the city's Social Service.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u256	No arguments here, Mrs. Fotio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u257	There is another legislative improvement, Mr President. In point (d) of paragraph 2 of Article 4 - again in the same article - after the words'social hostels of the homeless', the words 'counselling centres and hostels for women - victims of violence' are added.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u258	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Georgiadis, the last of the rapporteurs, from the Centro Association, I would like to say that there will be a list of all the amendments which will be given to those responsible, to the rapporteurs and to the parliamentary representatives so that we can at the end of the vote, of course, in relation to the motion for a resolution by all parties, but also to the vote on the amendments, in order to facilitate the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u259	It is encyclopedia, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u260	The rest, Mr. Economou, you've said it. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, good evening now! Because we see too many amendments - admittedly overnumbered - and changes that are coming, I will leave our Parliamentary representative in a little time to comment on them. Because yesterday I raised issues of both economic and social nature, today I would like to devote my time to the most critical political area, the one in education. And why is he the most critical? Because it all starts from him, both the economy and the foreign policy and the internal administration. And I won't talk about education in general. I will be specific and I will speak about higher education, which is the biggest educational wound in recent decades. The best, therefore, Greek university is now in all international rankings from the 30th place to the bottom. In other words, we are on the list of many Chinese, Indian, Argentinian, Mexican, South African, Lebanese, Kazakh, Czech, Colombian, Malaysian, Finnish universities. That is to say, many countries, which have smaller educational budgets from us and geographically excluded, are - and I mean that they do not have strong alliances, such as us with the European Union. I will mention features of the National Kapodistrian University, which is at the 30th first place, Aristotle at the four hundred and fifty-nine. I am tabling into the Minutes the relevant sources of what I say. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The international rankings control each higher education institution in the world, i.e. the level of research produced, the degree of satisfaction of domestic and foreign students and the more general academic reputation. And that's not a new phenomenon. The Greek university has also been degraded by previous governments so as not to be fooled. So it's not your creation. Let's talk about it. Your main argument at the moment is that Greek graduates are dividing abroad because they have necessarily acquired talents of "pegenic" to survive academic and research in the adversities of the Greek educational system. No, that is, because our universities today are at a high level, but precisely for the opposite reason. In this climate, IATAP a few days ago announces: A practical exercise which is integrated into a programme of study of higher education institutions in foreign countries must have taken place in the country in which the title is awarded. And I ask you: do you think that this international isolation at academic level will help improve the quality of university and higher education? If anyone, for example, brings you a degree from Oxford, Cambridge, Harvard, you insist to pass it through the tortures you intend to pass it to recognize his degree, a degree considered on the basis of all international rankings - unfortunately - a hundred times better than any other person can get from our own country? Do you insist on this view? Do you intend to make life harder for Greek foreign graduates who come to Greece to help our country grow? In all the reliable education establishments in the world, the student has the right, for example, to partially fulfil his or her degree obligations and draw up his or her diploma or practice in another HEI or in any other body or country. Many Greek students abroad come here to continue their studies and practice. Obviously, that's not what you like and what you're doing you won't be able to study Greek at a lower school. You will manage to get him to stay abroad forever and maybe that's what you want to do and really don't want the workers to enter our country and help. The scientific community has an international dimension. Indeed, the existence of IOTAP alone in Greece and the difficult environment for the recognition of titles that have been acquired even from the most reliable foreign universities, is internationally targeting us and others are being subject to constant fines for our country. In other words, while you want intercultural convergence, you are doing the opposite in practice. But let us leave traditional forms of education and move on to distance education. You bring an amendment to the current bill, which passes all the responsibilities of evaluating the Greek Open University. You name this new organization that forms a Remote Education Certification Center, which is inextricably linked to the Ministry. This amendment obviously relates to the main body of the draft law, which provides that the PSC may set up annexes within the Greek territory, of course, after payment of tuition fees. What do we see here? What does the design of the amendment and the specific subparagraph of the bill mean in practice? That there is a very clear trend towards governmentalism and rhysphetological management and for higher education. When you put the EAW, which even has a tuition fee, a monopoly on distance education, we can only talk about North Korea's practices in Greece. On the substance, you define the Open University and thus the Greek State as the sole provider of distance education and not only this, but also the sole evaluator of the entire distance education. And in the end, so much confidence do you have in the OSH, that you want to assess international educational institutions of unknown prestige? Your self-confidence is totally unjustified. Finally, I am going to refer to public IEK, which demonstrates the size of your management failure. There is the phenomenon: In the process of recruiting teaching staff, the permanently appointed teachers in the public sector are assigned to the unemployed, with a maximum of 10 hours per week available. And I ask you, who are allegedly sensitive to the unemployed: in a country with 25% unemployment, two jobs may be given to some privileged people, who are obviously partly related to your election clientele? Another example of dubiousness, which has been arousing our country in recent years. Pay attention to another crook. Since 2017, the so-called ‘adult trainer certification’ will be mandatory for recruitment to the public IEK. In other words, in order to obtain the certification, a variable amount of EUR 120 shall be paid to the EEAS as of May 2014. Nevertheless, certification tests gave few in the summer of 2015, which of course precede to candidates, as they are certified. But they have all paid and, because of your insufficiency to conduct tests, they have not been examined. I'm making a relevant article with a complaint. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So that's what the state - our fraud in the Central Association does not represent us. We want an immediate response to all these aspects that we have raised and not so much for us, but more for the world, which watches and fights. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President, and I shall conclude. Our proposals are simple: upgrading public universities and assessing teaching and administrative staff by persons of unknown prestige, regardless of nationality. Evaluation methodologies are too many and they are ready and you know that. We do not see any interest in you, because you fear the political cost. Since you are so admiring the English standard, we invite you to approach it. No one's blocking you. Both the PPE and the annual budget are reaching and abundant for a country with population and labour like ours. Couldn't our country, for example, become an international centre of theoretical studies? We are known worldwide as the inventors of philosophy and science. Stop appointing your apts at universities. Upgrade logistics. Get rid of strangles of past centuries and welcome to the 21st century. Don't immerse us anymore in the Middle Ages. I will close my speech today with an excerpt from the novel "The name of the rose" of Umberto Echo, who left life yesterday, at the age of eighty-four years, which is certainly a great loss to world philosophy and literature. He says, "The learning process does not only include what we should or cannot do, but also what we could avoid doing." In short, ladies and gentlemen, if our educational system in recent decades has been better, you would reasonably not be a government at this time. Today, the country needs clean solutions, including justice and perspective. We regret, ladies and gentlemen, but the Centro Association is voting against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. Let me say, Mr Georgiadis, that the validity of the facts rather than the view - to God - is that the list you have tabled with the universities is not the list of five hundred universities, but it is the list of twenty thousand, which is public and private.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u263	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u264	And that's where the ranking is given and if you match it to the lists of five hundred or other more valid, less or less, lists, they have a positive mark, Mr. Georgiadis. Hold that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u265	It's high, but consider the rest of the universities that are lower...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u266	Okay. It is right to clarify things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u267	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u268	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u269	Specifications we want to give.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u270	It has no clarification, you do not answer the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u271	No, no clarifications will be given. Mr. Blonde wanted to say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u272	After Mr Kurubli, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u273	All right, after Mr. Kurubli. Mrs Antonopoulou will also clarify something that has been said. Universities have been clarified. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u274	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is useful at times of fundamental importance to remember our ancient ancestors, who have given very great and critical answers to very great and interesting questions. They said, "The victory of all the victorious or perfect." In view of what we are discussing in Parliament, then, in the draft legislation we are discussing, one really finds that there is a dominance of misery and a lack of measures against a number of interventions, which no one can claim to be the best thing to do or require. But in view of what is happening in the country, the government, in depleting the margins of negotiation in a regime which we all know has brought about a draft law which, in its entirety, is not bureaucratic at all, is not trying to resolve bureaucratic issues, but essentially matters. So I heard reports of health issues. Ladies and gentlemen, do you have the impression that nobody is listening to us and seeing us? Does the Greek people not know what state we received the health system? Do you think the Greek people have a goldfish memory? A year under certain circumstances is an attempt to maintain the system upright and we are listening here to unscrupulous verbs and to the fact that I really respect their history and the measure in their word, that we want to privatise health. Is the Hospital in Santorini private, ladies and gentlemen, what is now being attempted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u275	What's the anonymous company?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u276	It is a tragic mistake to mention so simple and easy. Whether the municipality has decided since the end of the terminal to assist the effort, that's another matter. Besides, the municipality is not a private enterprise. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the problems, important interventions have been made both to staff and to restore hospital debts. Of course, there are very big problems. But is the current government responsible for squatting health? Is this government responsible for the billion-dollar party that took place on the medicine and you didn't speak, most of them? I do not want to make personal references, but you know I was in a parliamentary group and I asked for specific people to be referred to the prosecutor and you were mocked. And you come now and speak painless and inexpensive for health. You want to open this conversation? We can open it to see exactly what happened to the health party. Ladies and gentlemen, I was once Secretary General at the Ministry of Health and I was told that two Greeks in a European country, because they had no insurance, did not receive them to hospitals and died. Have you ever seen - and this applies to all of us, not only the current government, it is all about all the governments - in Greece all these difficult years to leave as Greeks a man, whoever he was, to die on the street without offering him care? And that's what I'm saying. It's about everyone and all the governments. Why should we demolish everything in this place on the altar of petty and short-sighted politics? To make criticism, of course, tough and strict, but not a levelling-up. She doesn't drive the place anywhere. Ladies and gentlemen, in this bill we have tabled a number of provisions for the Interior Ministry. About Articles 5 and 24, I will speak at the end of my speech. I shall refer a little to the interim articles. Does anyone disagree with Article 7? Article 7, ladies and gentlemen, provides the possibility of recruiting officials in the area of municipal rewards. It is a clear answer to all the funny things that sound, that we wanted to give the private sector the cleanliness of the municipalities. It's a clear answer, because we're just overthrowing commitments you've made in the past medium term, so that there's no recruitment in this area. This was the result of the negotiation of this government, in order precisely to support the sensitive area of quality of life, cleanliness, so that municipalities can organise better. And that's not all we do, ladies and gentlemen. In consultation with the CEDEFOP, we are negotiating with the European Investment Bank that there should be funding for the purchase of a significant number of wastewaters that the space needs. In Article 8, ladies and gentlemen, arrangements are being made for sensitive groups of the population, for small and medium-sized enterprises. In Article 9, arrangements are made to enable the mayors to ask when movements are made to the regional municipalities. Articles 10, 11, 12 and 13, ladies and gentlemen, are provisions which are favourable and substantial. I hope you will all vote on them, because they are really serious issues. For example, in Article 12 there are arrangements for people who are entitled to housing. They've taken plots, and they're not allowed to restore this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u277	Minister, you have two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u278	Mr President, I need some time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u279	You have two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u280	Just?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u281	Yeah. You know of this. You have a lot of experience. It's not a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u282	Article 13 gives the possibility of extending the range of all vulnerable groups to the social invoice and to the imperfections that the municipality can offer. Here I agree with a point made by Mr Kegeroglu, that all of these should be citizens subject to the feeding card, guaranteed income and TEVA. Article 19 concerns, ladies and gentlemen, the three-tiers, who are subject to Law 2643. Article 22 extends the allowance for unhealthy work and for people working in the Gender. I hope that the JRC will vote for this article. We are coming to Rule 24, ladies and gentlemen, and I have heard a New Democracy colleague say that he is not voting on it. What is Article 24, ladies and gentlemen? The New Democracy does not vote for it because it cannot be weaned by its relationship with the state, by the party state. This government, through my predecessor Minister, who had the political courage and courage - and you know in the field of self-government how things are in terms of political positions - while it has all the comfort, without anyone telling her to place political officials in its seven decentralised administrations - because that was all the years - this government, ladies and gentlemen, what did it do? What did he do? He chose a transparent way through ASPI to place high-level public administration officials. And how do you say that? Hairdressing? To understand, because I'm starting to feel like I don't know well Greek about what I hear. Words have lost their meanings. With regard to Article 5, which concerns the new effort to decentralise. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA does not politically control any institutions, either in grade 1 or grade 2. All actors in this area therefore fully support the need, as the implementation of all these institutions, which have been attempting to decentralise in the past, poses serious problems for functionality, impairs the development process, effectively undermines the duplication of competences, functions, and creative efforts. And we are therefore trying to set up a committee of twenty-five members, including the EIA and the CEDEFOP. Although with these institutions politically we have nothing to do with it, we have cultivated a climate of confidence and cooperation. Because this requires the benefit of the place at the moment, overcoming peculiarities and obsessed and dealing with collectively and globally large issues, such as decentralisation, decentralisation, and avoiding the temptation of overconcentration. It'll be a decentralisation with direct-democratic institutions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u283	Please, Minister, you're closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u284	...real democracy, with liberation of powers, with an end state, liberated by the logic of management power and with multi-level authority, but also with resources in the administration of the First and Second degrees. There are one or two amendments. Mr President, I will be closed. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment concerning the possibility, after training firefighters and local authorities, where there is room for manoeuvre, of driving the health centres' ambulances. We're talking about health center ambulances. And in order not to confuse things, it's another thing the ambulances of the health centers and another of the EAW. Lead the ambulances to health centers. Ladies and gentlemen, do you disagree? When we go up to the Step of the House, we have to be read. So ask other countries if this cooperation exists. Ask and tell us here that there is no. And something else about local self-government. I understood a great dust coming up on a matter that has no value at all. Firstly, as far as the regional authorities are concerned - unless you represent both the regional directors and substituting them - if you want me to tell you names. You want me to tell you, Mr. Bakoyannis, you want me to tell you other district officers...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u285	Mr. Curublis, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u286	...which people have said and claimed to be in the positive direction of the measure? Besides, it has so many conditions and restrictions. The first degree of local self-government refers to primary health care. Aren't we not all saying that this level of health should once coexist in good and instant co-operation with local government? I therefore think that there is an overstatement, a lack of measure, a sterile opposition to a government which assumes its responsibilities when the Greek people come to judge it at the end of the four-year period. So if you are now trying at a difficult time, during which political stability is being judged by all of us...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u287	Minister, please very much, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u288	Wait a minute, Mr. President, I'm closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u289	You've been talking for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u290	Let him, Mr. President, speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u291	At a time when it is crucial for homeland, it attempts to keep the country up, a country that lives three major crises, the refugee, the humanitarian crisis and the economic crisis. You see, ladies and gentlemen, what happens to the wider...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u292	The Secretary-General's time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u293	Is that a party president?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u294	Time applies to all, both to us and to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u295	So you see that while there are these great trials for the people, dramatic situations are taking place in the wider region. So we all need a measure at this time. There's time. Time will be found when the assessment comes and the debt adjustment will come. From there on, you have all the room to make any criticisms and any opposition you want. I am also making a detailed legislative improvement in Article 24, Mr President. There is a correction of paragraphs that have been recorded. Please share with my fellow Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fifty-six students and students and four educational sessions from the 4th Ptolemaida High School. The House welcomes you! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Antonopoulou has the floor to clarify something. Then Mr. Xanthos will take the floor, who would also like to clarify something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr President. We have previously heard Mr Delis from the Communist Party of Greece say that it is a shame when yesterday, with an amendment that we tabled, we removed paragraph 10 from the first article of the bill, which provided for the full medical coverage of workers in the five months paid EUR 400. I would therefore like to clarify what is due to the misunderstanding and to reply to you. Of course we could not pass through the back door such an important provision. This accusation is too heavy. But to explain exactly what has happened. The misunderstanding was created because I submitted yesterday a legislative improvement, which states precisely that paragraph 10 of Article 1 is deleted, which reads as follows: ‘the beneficiaries are covered by the IKA - EAFRD insurance with full medical coverage’. We're taking that off. Why? Because we have seen that by putting this wording the legitimate interests of engineers alone, which are in another fund, could not be served. I would like to say, therefore, that on the basis of the wording of Mr von Wogau's report. 4255 all these rights were and will remain valid. So we didn't remove labour rights or pension rights. Five months don't exist. It's eight months from now on. EUR 400 but EUR 751 are not paid, which, when we remove contributions to the funds, results in EUR 495,6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u298	Thank you very much, Mrs. Antonopoulou. It is appropriate to clarify at least the elements, so that at the end of the meeting, when the parties are placed in the articles, they have full knowledge and are all clarified. Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor for a clarification, and then the floor will be held by the Chief of Staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u299	No clarification, Mr President. I would like to present six parliamentary amendments from all thirty ones tabled. Although a lot of people are having major problems, and I could accept them...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u300	Congressman? SYRIZA or others?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u301	Congressman. A total of thirty ones. The people I've accepted are SYRIZA MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u302	Cost-shared?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u303	Costed, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u304	By who?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u305	Please don't interfere underneath. All the clarifications were given. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u306	There are several amendments that could be accepted. We'll see. We have one option in the next few days, because there will be two bills and the Ministry of Administrative Reform and the Ministry of Finance. Those of them who have budgetary costs can be better worked out and, in consultation with the relevant ministries, submitted in the near future. Of these six amendments, therefore, we are accepting: the first is the general number 215 and a special number 35, which enables the Directors of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to reallocate funds. That was nr.4316. Between the hospitals alone, said n.4316. We give the opportunity to reallocate funds for on-call and overtime staff and among the remaining primary care structures supervised by the Ministry, because many times it has appeared that there is...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u307	Without justification, Minister. It was clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u308	It also legalizes certain movements that were extended until 31 December. That is the first amendment. The second is the general number 238 and a special number 45. This concerns the recruitment of subsidiary doctors, where we are also making a change. This substantially facilitates the coverage of posts with subsidiary doctors, decentralising the management of the online list in the regions, enabling the commander rather than the minister to appoint and - thirdly - enabling the doctor to choose two prefectures rather than the same Ministry. So we give him a chance to know that about the range of hospitals in which it can be placed, and before there was the possibility of two sanitary regions. That's the second one. The third amendment is the general number 196 and special 16, which enables individual cleaning, feeding and storage contracts to be signed for the services of the Ministry of Health. This was by a regulation of the previous six months, by a law by Mr Katrugalos. There was no explicit mention of health services. Although it had been attempted in some cases, the Commissioners have created problems to check the warrants, and that is now we are officially granting them. There is also an amendment that concerns...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u309	Is that the fourth, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u310	The fourth, yes. It is the general number 198 and special 18 which enables them to be excluded from posting in the Prices Observatory some prices that are offered and which are very low. A phenomenon has been observed that various suppliers offer very low prices, which are then binding on the whole market, so that the rest of the suppliers cannot supply hospitals and there are known deficiencies even in cheap health material. We think it gives a flexibility through a three-member committee, which will decide whether or not to post this value should be posted, when there is a 20% difference from the average of the previous period.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u311	20% of the Observatory's prices?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u312	From the last price. If there is more divergence than 20%, there is the possibility of not posting, because we have this picture, in which suppliers in different parts of the country pay too low prices and because they are under bankruptcy, they want to banish their goods. Another amendment, the general number 249, and a special number 51, is accepted, which regulates the rebate of the pharmaceutical industry in previous years with the possibility of having four instalments by the end of the year. It is a facility at a time when the pharmaceutical industry has actually suffered a significant price reduction from the previous period's arrangements. We have an opportunity for the EEA to have arrears of the pharmaceutical industry to the EEA through the rebate. Finally, it is also an amendment, with a general number of 211 and a special 31, which gives the possibility of repairing ambulances to hospitals in island areas, to the place where the structure and the ambulance exists, rather than making it compulsory to go to other islands or to the administration of the Ministry of the Environment, in Piraeus, in which there are certified traffic offices. It is a simple process to facilitate the repair of the ambulance by public bodies who have this possibility to the islands where the ambulances are located. These are the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u313	Thank you very much, Minister. The floor is held by the Chief of Officerial Response, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u314	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the House, I cannot start by commenting on the legislative practice adopted by the government majority in recent months. Eighteen ministerial amendments and a nineteenth, tabled by the Ministry of National Defence, may, by way of derogation, open tenders for the feeding of hot spots. Thirty-three amendments, which are not discussed and accepted by the government majority, without the relevant report from the General Accounting Office of the State. We cannot go on like this, Mr President! I remember the remarks made by the opposition at the time when we adopted such practices, but never the tension we have seen in recent months. I would ask you, Mr President, to intervene in your capacity, so that at last Parliament can legislate as laid down in the Constitution and in the Rules of Procedure and at least give it at least sufficient time for the opposition to be able to give a documented opinion on the ministerial and parliamentary amendments tabled by the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, before entering the core of the bill, to make a few brief comments on the latest developments on the refugee - immigration issue, which has been at the heart of the discussions that have taken place in the European Union over the last few days. As you know, yesterday and yesterday, I and Mr Tsipras were in Brussels. I personally, as Chief of Antipopulation, did everything in my power to get the country back into a strong voice and get away from the inappropriateness and, above all, the fatalism of the closed borders which, unfortunately, unfortunately, some ministers of this government have announced. I took part in the European People's Party summit. I kept a national attitude of responsibility. I did what the hard days our country is going through. I have not chosen to involve this national issue in the millstone of party controversy. That's what I had to do, and that's what I did. I have also done so for another reason, ladies and gentlemen, because I have noted, once again, that unfortunately the country's international image is in Nadir. I too, in my way, in whatever powers I have, am struggling to restore the credibility of our country, which, unfortunately, Mr Tsipras has been seriously injured. Unfortunately, our country is isolated today. It's treated with suspicion. The truth is that the government has desperately delayed effectively dealing with the refugee - immigration problem. She has been delayed in complying with the agreements which the Government itself has agreed with the European Union. As soon as we have seen, fortunately, a remarkable progress in the construction of hot spots. The government was finally led to the acceptance of NATO's involvement in the Aegean, without this being discussed at the National Representation. This development could have been avoided, but today we are discussing it is a development that is necessary because we need every means at our disposal to regain these flows. However, there are still several operational issues which need to be clarified. At all the meetings I had in Europe, I demanded that our European interlocutors put more pressure on Turkey to put an end to the illegal and inhumane practice of transporting people from the inland Turkey to the Turkish coast and then to the Greek islands. I also urgently asked our European partners to be in line with their commitments to our country. It is not possible, I stressed, every day that thousands of refugees and irregular immigrants enter Greece and Europe, in two months, has not been able to relocate more than five hundred refugees. This fight, in defence of Greek positions, will continue on our part with methodicity and determination, far away - I stress it again - from micro-party purposes. They must prevent unpleasant, possibly tragic, developments for our country. What did we do? We've only won 15 days. We have also given me - I believe the Prime Minister - a battle to prevent the logic of border closure. But we've only won a little while. Unfortunately, recent developments are very worrying and you know that. Only in the last three days were eleven thousand irregular immigrants and refugees spent in Greece. Unfortunately, many people now choose a different route than the one they used to follow in the past. They arrive in Kastelorizo. And these aren't random. Turkey must prove in practice that it means cooperation with the European Union in the recovery of the flows. So far, he hasn't done it. He's got one last deadline. On 6 March, important decisions will be taken. This is the last opportunity for Turkey to prove that it also means what it has agreed. Otherwise we will be faced with developments which will be extremely problematic for our country. I now come to the core of the bill being passed. I want on this occasion and on the Step of the House to address all Greek women and all Greeks, regardless of what they voted for in the elections, from what they voted in the referendum, regardless of which social group they feel they may belong to. It is a joint statement, ladies and gentlemen, that the situation in the country today is extremely unpleasant. The vast majority of the Greeks are being tested very hard. Unfortunately, things have deteriorated dramatically over the last fourteen months. As we speak of a bill on social solidarity, you all know very well that today the weakest are affected: young people, unemployed, employees, pensioners, farmers, particularly the middle class. Citizens feel they make many sacrifices without result. They believe that there is no substantial, effective country exit plan from the crisis. There is a feeling of deep frustration and - the worst of all - a psychology of national failure, a psychology of national defeat, which does not fit in this country. And that is why the vast majority of society has turned its back on Mr Tsipras and his government. Of course, the feelings of those who had believed in Mr Tsipras' announcements, which unfortunately proved to be completely false, are much more pronounced. When Mr. Tsipras became Prime Minister he told the citizens that he represents the young person against the old, that he represents the memorial to the memorandum, that he represents the Left towards the Right. However, today everyone knows that Mr. Tsipras is older than the old one, which he is at every opportunity hastens to judge. I am absolutely certain that many citizens today who define themselves as left-wing people find nothing left in your policy. Because the policy that you are following today has no identity. The only thing that concerns this government is how it will remain in power at all costs that the Greek people pay for it first of all is production Greece. I have said it many times, I repeat it today. The real dilemma in our country is one: will we finally move forward with fair reforms and a realistic plan, or will we stand still, and will we be permanently surfing with a glance in the past? For eight months, Mr. Tsipras was pretending to be negotiating hard. The result is we all know: closed banks, capital controls, a new painful memorandum, a deterioration in the real situation of the economy. In September the citizens re-elected him. Since then, however, it has been five months and the government is still claiming to be negotiating. I would remind you that, on the basis of the programme, the first assessment should have been closed by October. Every day it passes, the situation in the economy gets worse. Every day he passes, the bill for the Greek citizen grows. The agricultural sector should today, Mr Tsipras, be a force of exit from the crisis. It's treated in an unfair way. Your policies lead to the destruction of thousands of rural households. No one disagrees that farmers too should contribute, pay what they have to pay, but also what they can pay. Instead, thousands of farmers are being driven to disaster. For your insurance bill, we had the opportunity to discuss this in detail in the relevant debate. It's a looting, as it shapes, for freelance professionals. And it is the sole responsibility of Mr Tsipras that today we are calling for ECU 1.8 billion. In order to cover the financial gap, the Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93(2) of the EC Treaty in respect of aid to the steel industry. These measures have your signature. And it is solely the sole responsibility of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL that we should lead, in one way or another, to reductions in pensions and that the government should pretend that it wants to avoid them. I wonder sometimes, indeed, if through this endless negotiation - because we've seen it, you know, this project - Mr. Tsipras wants to finally set up a new break scene with our partners. Let me remind him that as many times as he tried to blackmail situations, it was not only him, but also the country with its back sticking to the wall. And we can't afford another national defeat. The economy cannot withstand any more tachographism. And as Mr Tsipras of course feels extremely isolated, he needed a low-level performance for the so-called 'parallel programme' we are debating today. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, a little bit of the real facts. When Mr Tsipras announced the Thessaloniki Programme in September 2014, this provided for costing measures of nearly EUR 1.9 billion. Since EUR 1.9 billion with the first bill on the humanitarian crisis we have fallen to 200 million, of which 108 were eventually disbursed, to come another 99 million for the supposedly parallel humanitarian programme of 2016, through which Mr Tsipras - and his Government - advertises his alleged social sensitivity. But the real social sensitivity of the Prime Minister is just as much as his responsibility. Unfortunately, zero. Let me just remind you of what happened in the past and what happened over our own days. We managed to give 450 million social dividends to the weakest. Then we were extremely critical of sharing crumbs. I cannot resist the temptation to read what Mr. Tsipras said in Yannina on March 21, 2014, when the government had announced the parallel programme, ours, then. 'And we consider an act of shame, an act of shame, an act of humiliation to every citizen of that country' - to be the case for the 450 million! - "on the one hand they grab the bread from the table of millions of people and, on the other, throw them some crumbs" - the 450 million! - "to buy, as they imagine, their support for the same policy that stole their bread and aims to steal them both the table and the chairs and the house. If that is not the absolute political stubbornness then the words have lost their meaning." That's what you said, Mr. Tsipras, when we were giving 450 million! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These were said to be the ones who baptise aspirins aspirins aspirins aspirins asspirins to very few. We won't tell you the same thing. We have also said that there are also provisions in the relevant bill, which are in the right direction and which we shall be voting in favour of. We're not going to draw, like you did, on the pain of ordinary people. Any support today is welcome. But we are not already going to accept initiatives from the previous government to appear as yours. Didn't you know that there are two ministerial decisions by the Ministers for Health of the New Democracy, which set out in detail the access of uninsured people to nursing and medical care? If you don't know it, I'll put it in the Minutes, have it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point the President of the New Democracy, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned Ministerial Decisions, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Do you not know that PPC's social invoice, as well as HSYAP, had been established by the previous government? Didn't you read the papers? Don't you know that PPC's social invoice was incorporated more than six hundred thousand households? Really, let's remember a little, Mr. Tsipras, the story of the heating oil allowance. Let's look at the numbers, because, you know, sometimes the numbers tell the truth. We had predicted 200 million for heating oil. How much have you given from November 2015 until January 2016? You gave 52 million. How much have we given in the corresponding period of last year? We gave 132 million. That is the reality, it is not questionable. If you live in a parallel universe, that's your problem. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But citizens are now aware of hypocrisy, which is behind today's government's announcements. You insist that you claim to have the monopoly of social sensitivity. The truth is that the government's inability account is primarily paid for, ladies and gentlemen, the weakest. Who's paying him? The unemployed who today see the prospects for new jobs evaporate into the altar of your left idealism. Our fellow citizens, who live in extreme poverty and may have hoped for minimum guaranteed income as a tool for their targeted protection. Cancer patients, recipients of antiretroviral medicines at some point felt to lose the earth under their feet. Sick people who need access to an intensive bed in public hospital and can't find it, and obviously they don't have the money to go to a private hospital. And really, Mr. Health Minister, why didn't you complete the recruitment of doctors and nurses, which our government had launched? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Did you have any other priorities? Why did you prefer to hire schoolkeepers and cleaners instead of doctors and nurses? You know very well that the funds were in place, and programming had been done. Others were your priorities. You wanted to satisfy your own political clientele. You won power once, lying and deceiving citizens. You want to deceive them again, invoking their sensitivity - as our fellow citizens are tired of the crisis - to deceive them once again. But the lie has short feet. I can only give you two specific examples of how the 'first time left' perceives social sensitivity and effective social policy. Example one. A month ago the Left government increased the ticket to public transport from 1.20 to 1.40. We, when we were in the government, did a systematic attempt to resolve transport agencies. What did you do? Pluralism overcrowding. Mr Spirtzi's free has become permanent increases for those who really need them. Because, indeed, public transport, buses, do not use them, our weakest fellow citizens use them. Example two. You visited, Mr. Tsipras, Perama a month ago and made a series of interesting announcements about the swimming pool, for the free delivery of food, hot meals in municipality, for infrastructure development. That's good and useful. No one will argue. Did you say a word about jobs and investment? You didn't say anything about it. You will once see on the left that the best policy, to tackle social inequalities, is job creation and not state charity. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Unfortunately, however, you have an allergy to investment and to private initiative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u315	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u316	You face the organization of society and the economy through the deforming lens of class warfare. And that attitude, of course, also holds your proposal for insurance. We have heard many times and, of course, it is true that there are retired people today, who, through their retirement, maintain a whole family. But can this be an alibi to declare a war against the next generations? In practice, what are you doing? Invert the redistributive model. Instead of children working through their contributions and through their income to support older generations, as it should be, you are satisfied with sharing a allowance for their children and grandchildren. I wonder if this really is your dream. The redistribution of misery and poverty. Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u317	Why did you fire the children?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u318	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u319	The final result of this policy will ultimately be the absolute poverty of the middle class. A middle class that you do, after all, what goes through your hand to deal with as an enemy. The reality is one, ladies and gentlemen. There is no parallel social cohesion programme. The fragmentary initiatives and those that we shall be voting on do not constitute a parallel programme. There's a parallel program. You just don't advertise your real parallel program. It's the state's parallel control program. This parallel programme is being implemented at high speed and with great efficiency. We see it all the time. Recent police crises. They've been released, as a general confession, worthy police officers. I wonder why. Why weren't you party good? I wonder why you are retiring people to whom the Greek State has invested. Just to find your own adorables? I do not need to repeat that every sense of sovereignty is being circumvented for the independent authorities who are being put and manipulated for the public education system, which you are undermining, for the freedom of information and pluralism that is being targeted. This is your parallel program. This parallel programme, however, has nothing to do with the needs of society but with your anxiety to remain in power. This parallel programme is being implemented at high speed. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Our place needs a sincere debate on what today constitutes a real social policy. I fear, however, that this social policy cannot be served, because no social policy can be served unless growth is created in the country. The creation of wealth - you will understand it at some point - is a prerequisite for any effective social policy. Otherwise, we will permanently share our poverty, rather than make a fair sharing of the wealth that this country can create. We will shortly present a comprehensive and costly programme of social cohesion as part of our programme. At the core of this programme, it will be a concept that you are still dealing with, for reasons I really cannot understand, with scepticism, if not with hostility. It's the concept of minimum guaranteed income. The minimum guaranteed income - you know it very well, if you do not know, finally learn it - is a tool used in all European countries. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You'll tell me that there's a neoliberal minimum guaranteed income. Indeed. Yes, indeed. We'll hear that too. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That is why it is also being used in countries that are socially-democratic as an effective and targeted tool, above all, to tackle extreme poverty. You do not, however, like targeted policies. Our proposal will not, of course, be limited there alone. We need a grid of actions which can start from the extension of the unemployment benefit to those who live below the poverty line and will, of course, end up in my view in the most important, real social cohesion and social equality policy, which is to support pre-school education, so that all children can be placed in nurseries, whether public or privately certified in nurseries. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm closing, so I don't get far. This government, ladies and gentlemen, understands that whoever has followed this debate - is tabling this bill as a convenient communication diversion. It's a so-called counterweight to the insurance, front-end bed, of Mr. Katrugalos. It is a so-called counterweight to the new fiscal guillotine, which is being launched by Mr Alexiadis. It's a so-called counterweight to the other left-wing auctions that come from Mr. Stathakis. It's a so-called counterweight to your allergy for real reforms. It is a so-called counterweight to continuing repatriation in the implementation of the necessary political democracies. Only, Mr. Tsipras, it's too much. We have, on the one hand, 5.7 billion tax measures and, on the other, we have 99 million to deal with poverty. Nobody believes you anymore. Because the moral advantage of the Left and the monopoly of social sensitivity became as soon as a joke. And together with the whole society, we tell you that lying and mocking are no longer going to Greece today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u320	Thank you very much for the Chief of Administratorial Response, Mr. Mitsotakis. Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, because we are in full agreement today, I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that, as we all know, we have eight hundred forty-eight thousand refugees and immigrants in our country. Recently, that is, over the last few months on the substance. Among these three hundred ninety - one have never arrived on our islands and there are hundreds of seventy - two missing. We all know that cemeteries have been set up on our islands with names and anonymous names. I propose, as a minimum obligation, as an expression of grief and disappointment of the Greek Parliament, that we keep a minute's silence. [[At this point, all Members of Parliament stand up for a minute's silence]] With the wish there is no other dead and missing! Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u321	Ladies and gentlemen, what the President of the Parliament announced a moment ago is an unsolved reality, which must reflect not only on each Greek and every Greek but on the part of every European citizen, that what has been happening for months in the Aegean is a great shame on European culture. It is incomprehensible that there is no way of hitting traffickers and stopping the drama of hundreds of thousands of people persecuted, grounded from their homes, going through a real odyssey so that they can live in a better future. The European Union, ladies and gentlemen, - and I speak with experience from the two-day summit, an extremely difficult summit which has had to face up to the current refugee crisis on the one hand and, on the other hand, the United Kingdom's demands for derogations from the social acquis, in order to avoid its exit from the European Union in the forthcoming referendum - is perhaps in the face of the greatest challenges of its establishment. The Syrian crisis is getting deeper and deeper. Yesterday we also had the involvement of land forces on the part of Turkey, the extraordinary convening of the UN Security Council and the risk that the war will become general in our neighborhood with the involvement of Russia and Turkey. At the same time, the crisis in Syria is deepening and the result of this crisis is an unprecedented refugee crisis, the biggest move of populations on the continent after World War II, and at the same time an international - and of course a pan-European threat - that is the rise of extremist religious extremism, fundamentalism, in the form of terrorist attacks on the part of ISIS and the heart of Europe. Of course, all this at a time when the economic crisis, which has erupted since 2008, remains, because the central guidelines decided by the European Union, its leadership, were the neoliberal ones, which, instead of solving problems, created even more problems of cohesion in the European Union. In this extremely sensitive and complex environment, the European Union, Europe, today, appears weak and divided in its attempt to perhaps - I repeat - the greatest challenges from its establishment: from the one hand the deficit of solidarity and co-responsibility, the idea of a card to tackle the common problems, the feeling that there may be rules for some who must respect them but a card to the burdens and responsibilities of others. But, on the other hand - and let us not hide - the strengthening of extreme right-wing and populist forces at the core of Europe, precisely because of the neoliberal austerity policies, and, of course, the emergence of governments - particularly in the former Eastern Bloc - of such governments, create a complex field, regenerate enormous weaknesses, create a deficit of leadership on the part of the Union and, of course, weakness and an institutional framework, in order to tackle crises parallel to those we are facing today. Our country from the start has been at the top, at the core of two of these three parallel crises, of the economic crisis and now of the refugee crisis, and has taken a disproportionate weight to its powers. And you know that we did not take this as an obligation to the partners, but we took it as a debt to our own values. The Greek people have known what refugee is going to say and have learned to give from their suffering when our fellow men hunted and grounded need help. Our country and the majority of our people, particularly in the islands - with some exceptions, of course, but the majority of our islands, the majority of the Greek people - are at this critical hour lifting the burden of the visionary values up in a Europe that, unfortunately, is mutated and removed from its founding values. We are highlighting, in spite of the great economic difficulties we face, the human face of Europe at a time when Europe is split up and which increasingly strengthen forces that want to build walls and fences between Europe's borders, which are increasingly seeking to turn Europe into a fortress. You know, the fact that Greece and the Greek people, despite the difficulties it is going through, gives the battle to the frontline and is pioneering the emergence of Europe's human face, the founding values of Europe, against extreme populist perceptions, xenophobic perceptions, racist perceptions, is something for which all Greeks and Greeks should be proud. And you know, we cannot, from now on, tolerate responsible bureaucrats or xenophobic governments to move the finger and suggestions in Greece. From now on, when they talk about Greece in relation to the refugee issue, whoever is speaking in Europe, they should first dive the language in their minds, think and then speak. We will no longer let any attack unanswered and no action with no consequences! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Because Greece has done its duty and - I repeat - its obligations and lessons towards bureaucracy but its moral debt to the universal values, which are our common cultural wealth in Europe. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The targeting of Greece, on the occasion of a report on delays, which was dated at the beginning of November, was made at the end of January and was triggered by Article 26 of Schengen, was pretext and unacceptable. At yesterday's summit, a definitive end has come to this whole debate, and I would also like to believe a definitive end to the terrible methods of certain extreme conservative circles in Europe to target the country, which today has the greatest weight and responds more than anyone else, on the Balkan route, to the humanitarian task facing these people and to the refugees. And, of course, it is good that it is now a common recognition that Greece is the country that has done most of all and that has not been found to have the courage to contradict it. In addition, I consider it extremely important to make an explicit reference to the conclusions of the summit to maintain the integrity of the Schengen Agreement and thus close any debate on exit from Schengen or on the principle of the end of Schengen, as far as Greece is concerned. So, in any case, it is ensured that both Greek citizens and visitors from the European Union have no impact on the refugee crisis, whatever the dimensions it may take in the future. This is extremely important, too. We have also received a clear assurance that unilateral non-coordinated actions by the countries crossing the refugee flows are not acceptable and, in particular, non-coordinated actions, which may lead to the creation of humanitarian crisis conditions. However - and I want to see that I am quite clear and honest - there have been many times in the conclusions of commitments that have not been implemented, which have not been complied with. Usually, the control focuses on Greece's commitments - and that is right. However, there have also been commitments regarding the relocation of refugees from Greece to sixty-six thousand, and only two hundred and fifty have been made. That's the truth. Therefore, without complacentness, we should continue our efforts to lift up the flag of humanism and humanity in Europe and, at the same time, move on, perhaps beyond our previous obligations - we do not have to do so - so that there can be opportunities for addressing, helping refugees to the best possible version and in any case. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, is taking the lead - and will continue to take the lead - in the implementation of the agreements, both in the European context and in terms of the decision taken in NATO, calling for the next period for both our neighbours and Turkey to respect its commitments. Greece, however, - and I would like to stress this - will not be isolated in Europe because some extreme, xenophobic, extreme right-wing circles want it. Greece will take the lead, so that these circles are isolated in Europe, that those who rise up fences, those who divide hate and racism, those who lead the European continent into division and division, can be isolated. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I listened carefully to the position of Chief of Police in relation to the refugee issue. I heard him say the government was delayed. Mr. Mitsotakis, don't use the same arguments as those that make some who shake our fingers. The refugee flows were so great and we were so unexpectedly in the eye of the cyclone that no one could face this immediately. Indeed, there have been delays. This time, however, what matters and what I would expect you to say to the National Representation is that compared to all the other countries of the European Union, Greece is the day by night compared with what it has done for refugees. Nevertheless, I would like to say that I am pleased at your party's change of attitude, because it is not stable, Mr Kumucaco.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u322	It's always stable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u323	You were then, I remember, at the Summit of Heads of State, represented by the Chief of Staff, Mr. Plakkatakis, but you rushed to advise him later, when he committed the atom within the Heads of State to declare that the position of the country's Officerial Response is that hot spots should not be made, because hot spots on the islands are signs of tension, they are focal points and Greece should not accept that burden.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u324	You're confusing me with Mr. Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u325	Well, let go of these now. There are Minutes from this session. I am pleased that you have changed your attitude, because it would indeed be extremely problematic for the country to take precedence over the Acoustic Opposition the views of a portion, which obviously may also be majority in your party, because they are publicly expressed by many New Democracy officials and, above all, by a attitude and practice which, of course, are not under any other circumstances, under conditions of mass influx of refugees, under different conditions, easier, were also involved in the regular planning at that time of the government as regards the re-promotion of refugees coming to Greek territorial waters. I am therefore pleased that the change of attitude enables a common national line to exist on this crucial national issue, which is the refugee issue. But I would ask you not to use the term 'closed borders'. There are no or closed borders. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The issue of the Schengen Treaty and the targeting of Greece ended yesterday. What is at risk of happening is a flow control, and that is why we have fought, even with our refusal to accept the summit's conclusions as a whole, if there is no guarantee that the flows will not be unilaterally controlled and that there will be no non-coordinated actions in the Balkan corridor. However, the term 'closed borders' is a term that creates fear, horror and makes no sense to repeat it. At the worst possible time, we will have to deal with the control of flows, and we are sure that, even in this version, the forces that perceive Europe as a single field, a field of solidarity and burden-sharing, will come to stand alongside us, against those forces that are today promoting the fences, so that they do not have a temptation not only for the last country in the corridor, Greece, but also for the most part, they will be - if you want - disastrous for our common home called Europe and our common values. I would like to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that the next time we have to bear our burdens in order to implement the NATO agreement. It is an agreement that ensures our sovereign rights and stops, if you like, this liability performance game, the blame game. These hard, extremist conservative circles, what did they say in Greece for so long? "You can't keep your borders," they said. They ignored the fact that this is a maritime border. They ignored the fact that, when some boats and, indeed, the bad time, loaded with fifty stacked people, enter Greek, that is, European territorial waters, then the only obligation against international law is for these people to save them. NATO will therefore not attempt to save or attempt in Greek territorial waters, but NATO will have the responsibility of monitoring and tracking movements, particularly traffickers, on the Turkish coast, with the technology, which, of course, has something that Greek ships could not do, even though they had this technology, because we are not entitled to be the ones who, from the Greek territorial waters, will identify the movements in the territory of a foreign country. NATO will have the responsibility...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u326	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u327	These issues are quite serious. Please listen with caution and, if you want, tell your opinion later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u328	We're glad you're aware of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u329	Long live NATO!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u330	Please, be quiet! Go on, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u331	So I said that NATO will be responsible for identifying and then alerting the forces of FRONTEX and the Turkish coastguard to prevent flows from Turkish coasts to Greek, that is, the European territories. I repeat, when a boat comes full of people, who are at risk of their lives, in European waters, then the only obligation we have under international law and all we will continue to do, because that is our duty to humanitarian, is to rescue them. So we believe that Turkey, of course, is a country which is now in great difficulty and is currently in great difficulty with regard to its internal situation. I am referring to the terrorist attack, and I also want to publicly express my sadness at the loss of human lives. However, I would like to believe that everything we agreed on will be maintained and that, on 7 March - which is the Extraordinary Summit with the presence of the Turkish Prime Minister - and with the possibility of a period of time from 24 February to 7 March, to put in place the operational plan to identify the traffickers and prevent these flows, until then, we will have very important results in terms of reducing the flows. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that Europe is at a critical crossroads. There is no doubt that Greece is - if you like - in the middle of two parallel crises. There is no doubt that for Greece there is no other way to go but to continue its great fight against its humanitarian values and obligations and, at the same time, to try with coordinated efforts and coordination with European forces to be part of the solution rather than part of the problem. I would therefore like to say that I will be at the disposal of all the parties' Heads of State or Government, to give details of all the details on this crucial issue. And, of course, immediately after the end of the procedure in Parliament, I will go to the Presidential Palace, to inform the President of the Republic. So let me - and forgive me, because they have exceeded time, but I think I had to tell the House - to come to the debate. Mr. Mitsotakis, I listened very carefully. You said neither too much nor much that the country is in a very great crisis and the Greek people are depressed, because things deteriorated in the year that SYRIZA governs. Indeed, Mr Mitsotakis, in what country did you live in all the previous years that your party was running and you were Minister and we saw the Gross Domestic Product from nearly 245 billion going to 175 billion, losing the country 25% of its GDP in five years? Where were you then? Is this the time that things got worse in the country? And you say that and you want anyone to believe you? There is no doubt that the Greek people know that the country is in a crisis and that the economic crisis remains. However, who can you convince me that it is the seven months of the tough negotiation or that it is the worsening of the situation - compared, of course, with the previous years - that your own governance is not responsible for the insurance business, but is responsible for one year? Ladies and gentlemen, elections were held four months ago, and it was the first time in this place, where elections were held after a difficult agreement and not before, as the previous governments used to do. The Greek people knew, when they went to the polls, that we will be called to face difficulties and will judge us whether we respect our commitments in relation to our'red lines' and, of course, judge us at the end of the route. We are now in the middle of a fermented sea. At this point you can say a lot and shout and think maybe this will make you win opposition points. We have a responsibility to drive the country out of this difficult canvas, in calm waters, and we will do so without listening to your cries! We will take the country out of the crisis, keeping our'red lines' and society up! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You say to us: 'Your policy is not even a left-wing policy'. Mr Mitsotakis, we know you say that our policy has no identity - you are criticizing us from the left now! - and I answer you that our policy has the one and only identity that in times of crisis it must have a government, a patriotic identity. The country must come out of the crisis! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You told us 'you said seven months that you were negotiating' and indeed that this was not negotiation because you think it did not have the desired results. Do you want me to remind you what you've done for four years?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u332	Two years!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u333	Do you want me to remind the Greek people and the National Representation how you were negotiating when you were Minister of Mr. Samaras' previous government? Ladies and gentlemen, before the elections on 20 September we clearly told the Greek people that we would implement the agreement, in which we arrived and will do so in the light of the protection of the weakest social strata, that we would implement the agreement while trying to do everything in these difficult economic conditions to strengthen by any means available the working and labour forces, but also any living, healthy and innovative power of the Greek society. We know very well that these powers will be judged. We will not be judged by the interconnected media. We will be judged at the end of the route by these forces that brought us here, gave us from June 2014 until today three answering election wins and a great victory in a referendum critical. These forces are aware of the difficulties through which we are forced, at the same time as the constant negotiation, to give the weight to the protection of the weaker. In addition to the commitments for specific actions we have undertaken under the agreement, in order to ensure the financing of the Greek economy, we have said that we will proceed with the preparation and implementation of a parallel government programme aimed at protecting the weak, with the support of the social state, and will put an end to the pathogens of the Greek model of political and economic governance. And despite the obvious difficulties, despite the comitology, we do not want to hide our words, because that is why we are struggling to stop the comitology - despite the rabies reaction of the political establishment, to which you belong, which you have ruled forty years in the country, we are now able to take a big step. After the bill on the humanitarian crisis, which was the first bill, which was passed in Parliament following the political change, after the hundred-dollar bill, which you then described as a unilateral action, against the institutional framework, against Europe, today we are bringing another bill - to protect the weak, which has not been given to us in English, Mr Mitsotakis, such as what you have taken and brought to Parliament for so many years. It has been written here and it is about the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u334	Like the third memorial!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u335	I would like to remind you that this government is fighting and judged in the field of efficiency. I would also like to remind you that this is the first time here and - I do not know how many - tens of years of cohesion funds, the so-called ESDP, which our country has managed to achieve, not only as usual, but first in absorbing Community funds, absorbing 97%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u336	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u337	Why did this happen? This has obviously happened, because for the first time these funds have not been allocated to favour some 'local' but rather to meet real social needs. We have also managed, despite the initial strong reactions and the insistence of some of the lenders, to protect the first home from auctions, when the previous government had made promises of full liberalisation of red loans. And we give a daily fight against corruption, which indulged like a magnificence around the living forces of Greek society and undermined every prospect of recovery in the interests of many. In this fight against corruption, in the complexion, we would like to have the political forces together on our side. But unfortunately, we have you across the street and see you every day defend the oldest of the old - and most rotten - in the political and economic establishment of the place, because it is precisely those powers that have built and raised up what is called strandage. It is a struggle that many governments and many Prime Ministers promised to do, but they did not dare. We in this race, no matter how many threats and blackmails we accept, are not going to retreat. We're going to take him to the end, and we're going to beat him! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You said, Mr. Mitsotakis, the parallel program is a performance. In fact, I have a feeling that you're very disturbed by this parallel program. It disturbs you, because the four, five years that you have imposed hard memorandum policies, you have had nothing positive. When this parallel program came first and was just before a critical dose for the Greek economy, you made a great deal of fuss about the House saying that it was supposedly not costed, it does not have the approval of the General Accounting Office of the State, that it was supposedly going to get us out, it will lead us to the rocks. This fuss and this noise has, of course, come to the institutions, who have asked for a small extension to consider whether it is actually costly. They looked into it, saw it as costly and came this programme to Parliament. So much stress and so much anxiety does this government prove that it has both the boldness and courage to move towards a social strata support policy, which you have never thought about? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I learned the day before yesterday, which you were in Brussels, at the European People's Party Summit and met with Chancellor Merkel, that you have let it leak: "We will not support the difficult ones, vote together on the difficult ones..." - I imagine you meant the insurance - "... but SYRIZA and ANELs will vote for themselves easily and to vote for the parallel programme that is easy." Mr. Mitsotakis, I never asked you to vote for the insurance. So I'm not asking you for the hard stuff. Alone! At least vote easily, vote on something that the Greek people will see as having a benefit to him and to the social strata. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You told us, however, during your speech that the things that we are bringing here today and above all the most important of what we are bringing, which concerns the possibility of some two and a half million unsafe fellow citizens having free access to health services and hospitals, is something you have done. You did, but we didn't get it! [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Neither did we understand it, nor did our insecure fellow citizens, who went to Greek hospitals and charged their tax statements! And then you tell us that we lie to the Greek people. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I would therefore like to present to the Praesidium an official document from the University General Hospital of Heraklion - I imagine that it also exists in any other hospital - which describes the procedure for admission to the hospital and instructs officials exactly how to operate and, of course, the patients who enter, what exactly happens if there is no insurance, if after five years of memorandum has lost the opportunity to pay for their insurance contributions and is not insured. So what does this document say? "If you are not insured with any health insurance institution, at your time of your attendance at the Movement Department you should complete a responsible statement of debt acceptance..." - Mr. Mitsotakis -... [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] ..."...that you are responsible for..." - says to the uninsured person - "...to settle your health care financially. The cost of hospitalisation shall be established in accordance with the applicable price list, on the basis of FEK set for public hospitals.’ I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u338	What's the date?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u339	On what date?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u340	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u341	You also told us that, what is the point in this initiative and the bill - the first that the government brought about the humanitarian crisis - since it was unable to implement its original promises and brought in a bill that had a low financial support package? You also told us that you didn't even need this bill, because, for example, there is the social invoice of PPC, then what is the reason to talk about further interventions in support of the low economic strata in relation to the possibility of paying the electricity. Mr. Mitsotakis, you know, the social invoice gives a reduced price to those with low incomes. We brought free electricity for three hundred thousand of our fellow citizens. Free current! Do you know the difference?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u342	Forever? Two hundred euros total last year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u343	Not in the dinosaurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u344	I have the feeling that you have achieved more in five years. But you'll say that. You will be able to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u345	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet! Mr. Balaura, leave the clarifications. Mrs Vultimatis, do not ask for clarification. Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u346	What about the farmers?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u347	Please! Be quiet! Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u348	I understand, Mr President, that there is a confusion at the right-wing audience. It makes sense to exist, because when faced with truths, it is difficult to continue with its propaganda. And, fortunately, the House is an area of dialogue, not a structured dialogue, like those you are accustomed to, the set-up television dialogues! Here will be the truths and the Greek people will hear truths! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close with something that may be extremely important these days. And it's extremely important why? A rabies attempt has been made for two months to create the impression of a media share and of the party of Officerial Opposition - no, of course, that they have an alternative to do things better - that, in any case, everyone is the same. And Mr Mitsotakis is constantly talking about the moral advantage of the Left. I would therefore like, Mr Mitsotakis, you and your resignation when you talk about the moral advantage of being a little more careful, because we on the tax-free lists have just taken them to justice. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We didn't keep them in our drawers, and we didn't give orders to the State Department to leave the lists to those who gave them to us! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And you must apologise for that to the Greek people. Apologise to the Greek people, because Mr. Samaras' government, in which you were a first-class minister, was the one who protected the tax-raisers!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u349	No date!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u350	Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u351	You're a crook!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u352	Mr. Georgiadis, we've been through another issue now! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u353	It's before the law!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u354	Aren't you ashamed? It's before the law!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u355	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u356	You come to the House and you lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u357	Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u358	So when you talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u359	Mr. Georgiadis, we've been through another issue now. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u360	I know that Mr Papastavrou was the top member of the Samara government, and that's why you're shouting. But, as long as you protected him, you protected him and as long as you protected them from tax-raisers, you protected them. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] No more protection! No more protection! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So this government, ladies and gentlemen, is the only government in the country, which has made commitments to the Greek people, to the support of low incomes, to the commitments to support socially weak people, but also to the commitments to hit interoperable and corruption, beyond and outside the major difficulties, will try to achieve them. Because, Mr Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen, we were the ones who opened up the big issue of the seashores, the scandals, the big issue of the 'SIEMENS'. And we'll take it to the end, Mr. Mitsotakis. Nothing will be forgotten in this place! That's it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. It took a lot more time, because there was also the issue of information.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u362	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u363	The Chief of Officer's Response, Mr. Mitsotakis, wants to make an intervention. We will then proceed to the other leaders. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u364	Mr. Tsipras, I was very impressed by your initial position on the attitude of Officer Opposition on the issue of refugee - immigration. Instead of appreciating the fact that the Chief of Anti-Population went to Europe and put his back on the country, all you had to say was about changing the country's position. Well, Mr. Tsipras, I'd like to explain something to you. My name's not Pano Kammenos. What you said about hot spots, about tensions, I didn't say it. What you mentioned about the closed borders, I didn't say it. Your ministers said it, Prime Minister! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So please be a little more careful. And when you talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u365	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u366	Please, be quiet! Mrs. Alonitou, I will be forced to name myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u367	In any case, Mr Tsipras, ladies and gentlemen, I would at least expect you to remember what the SYRIZA declaration on European elections said about NATO's role: that the European Union is an imperialist force. And the declaration made it clear that you want Europe without NATO and a Euro-Strasbourg. But here we are talking about the most monumental geopolitical cybiosis that has been done in this Chamber! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If Andreas Papandreou were here, he would say to you: "Tsipras and NATO, the same syndicate"! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you're referring to a change of attitude of Officer Opposition? In any case, we have never heard from you, Mr Tsipras, a self-critic of your policy's relics in the first eight months on the issue of refugees - immigration. I, with great dignity, did not highlight them in Europe. But here I have a responsibility: to remind the National Representation of what your then competent Minister, who was talking about the 'immigrants who were on the table', has done. And it had this attitude, that everyone could pass by Greece, go to Europe, and Europe would be completely indifferent to developments. This is what you did, Mr Tsipras, and obviously you sent messages to all the traffickers that the easiest way of entering our country was from the Greek border. Don't forget that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u368	Be quiet, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u369	Don't forget that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u370	Mr. Mitsotakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u371	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u372	Mr. Balaura, Mr. Theonas, I am forced to say names. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u373	There's no doubt that the...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u374	Mr. Plakyotakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u375	Mrs. Alonitou, please. What are these things? Go on, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u376	Calm down, ladies and gentlemen. There is no doubt that the situation in Syria has deteriorated over the last year. However, there is also no doubt, Mr Tsipras, that much of the people who enter Greece today are not refugees. They are irregular immigrants, who come from different countries, because someone sent them a message that "you can very easily go from Greece to Europe". And that's why you and your ministers, Mr. Tsipras, have taken the government into a welcome fold...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u377	Let's see the map! If you see the map, you won't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u378	Please be quiet. Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u379	But we had to reach our absolute limits. We had to threaten to get out of Schengen to get serious at last. You should have assigned the Department of National Defence responsibility. This is all due to your delays. I did not mention them in Europe, because in Europe we must have a national strategy. And, indeed, today there is a common place for what needs to be done from now on. But from January until today, there are responsibilities. These responsibilities have already been attributed. Now, let's go to the rest a little. I see one wish of your own, Mr Tsipras, every time you speak monotonously only in the September 2015 elections. You've forgotten...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u380	It's the last ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u381	So it's a convenient laundry, then. That's what you're telling us. It's a convenient laundry for all your election commitments. But there is one problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u382	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u383	And well, we believe you. The problem is, society doesn't believe you. Ask a citizen today, Mr Tsipras, if he believes that things in the country are better than they were a year ago. Take a look at it. I will not go into the polls of intent to vote. I understand they might bother you. However, I shall refer to the quality of the polls, which give the image of a destroyed country, a country in which there is no hope, of a country which, as a nut-swirl, is moving in conditions of instability.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u384	Did we destroy her?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u385	Mr. Balaura!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u386	And these polls and these results to the public are the result of your own policy. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA and ANEL wings]] Now, for the proud seven-month negotiations, why are you coming back? Mr. Varoufakis' ghost is in this Chamber. He's here and he's listening! And he was listening to you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And Mr Varoufakis talks about all that has happened. We will find out the truth once, Mr Tsipras, what happened in this semester. We'll find out, don't worry. We will find out the truth and then it will appear in the whole range, really, what you know about the parallel plans, about the possible occupation of the Mint. What did you do about all this, anyway? You haven't answered. Well, these Greek citizens don't forget them easily. So here we will also be remembering them. Now, as far as English and Greek and what bills were coming to English, I can tell you that the third memorandum, which perpetrated this situation, Mr Tsipras, came to English. You didn't write it. In English it's here. And you brought it within forty-eight hours to vote for, you who said you were going to smash memos! Well, don't at last cause our memory! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Now, with regard to the leakage issue, which we supposedly did or did not do after the meeting I had with Mrs Chancellor: Look, Mr Tsipras, it may seem strange to you that there is a political leader, who says the same thing here, says abroad. I understand that this is difficult for you to understand. Well, I repeat this: in this Chamber we do not vote, neither is it easy nor difficult. We are voting right and we are voting against the mistakes. Are we clear about this? I'm saying this to make it quite clear, then. Insurance is wrong. That is why we are not voting for it, Mr Tsipras. Finally, with regard to this interesting form, which you tabled in the Minutes, it is the first time - be careful! - that I see here being submitted, not an official document, but an interesting brochure, without a date, Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u387	It's plastic!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u388	I'm not saying it's forged. I'm just saying it's old. I'm saying it's prior to the ministerial decision. That's what I'm saying. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You know, those who give you all these publications, it is good, Mr Tsipras, to let you know better and not to expose you. Because, you know, when one submits texts in the Minutes, it can sometimes be exposed. So we, Mr Tsipras, prove in practice and in words what you are doing. I have told you at the outset that, contrary to what you and the committee and Parliament have been doing, this bill also has proper rules which we shall vote on. But we have said, with the same honesty and with the same tension that this bill, obviously, is not a solution to the major problems facing society. The society is boiling out there, Mr Tsipras, and you know it very well. And it boils not only because you are ineffective, but also because this society cannot forget, Mr. Tsipras, the lies you have told the Greek people, no matter how much you want to use the September elections to wash away from what you said! You will be persecuted by these lies for your entire journey, and that is why the Greek people keep you accountable today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u389	Please, ladies and gentlemen, quiet! Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, please, do not raise any further questions. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u390	Mr Mitsotakis, on the critical issue of the refugee question, which, as I said, is a national issue, I am in favour of the view that we should all be extremely careful, whether we are talking outside or talking in particular at a critical time. I understand, of course, that it is extremely difficult for a new Chief of Police Vice-Population Party, who wants to show the profile of the European leader, and particularly speaks to leaders of states who are holding a stand on the refugee different from the core of the perceptions that many share in your party's party, to manage at the same time to combine the costume of the European leader...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u391	The European!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u392	...the costume of the European leader and the costume of the leader of a party that has many different trends and tendencies. It is difficult to combine the logic that we are in the national line for the refugee, the protection of refugees and the human face, as well as the logic that Mr Vorides and Mr Denkia have often expressed in this Chamber. I understand that. However, I would like to ask you on critical issues, such as NATO, for example, that the Qualified Opposition has an official position. Because last time, when we discussed this issue in the national Parliament and Mr Denkias spoke, you had to make three different announcements, three different communications to reach an opinion! I would therefore like to repeat, Mr Mitsotakis, that I am pleased that you have - officially at least - a attitude of national understanding on this subject. I would like to say, however, honestly that the view that you have just expressed in relation to the statements made by the former Minister and Vice-President of the House today, Mrs Christodoulopoulos, that many opinions have been expressed in Parliament and in public and by you and by members of your party, are the main core of the same criticism today of populist and extreme right-wing forces, the AfD party in Germany, Mrs Merkel. Do you know what they're accusing her of? That photographed next to the refugees and saying that Germany is an area where refugees can find shelter, food and humanity, was "pull factor", that is, it was the one that opened the streams and called on the refugees to come here. Mr Mitsotakis, however, we must understand that some things that are happening around us go beyond our powers, and how much more so the Chancellor's powers. Imagine! It was Mrs Christodoulopoulos who brought one million refugees to Europe and over four million refugees away from Syria, Turkey and Jordan? Come on, get serious! Come on, get serious! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] However, I would like to reply briefly to the questions you have raised and to the criticisms you have made in relation to the negotiation we have made, the result we have had. Mr. Mitsotakis, is there even a Greek who doesn't know, who doesn't understand that there was a tough battle, a battle that reached the ends? Then you were the ones who called us here "Don't pull it any more. Sign! Sign what they give you." You held rallys, went out and campaigned for 'yes' in much worse proposals than we arrived at. Do you think there is even a Greek - not only Greek, a citizen who is following developments in Europe - who does not know that Greece has been found in the eye of the cyclone and has received an extortion and vengeance response on that crucial day of July 12th? When it became the first hashtag on viral Internet, Facebook, on Twitter, “This is a coup”? You don't know that? So you come here and say: 'Your negotiation has not worked'. Mr. Mitsotakis, whether or not he had any results, will be judged at the end of the battle. Because we continue to fight. And we continue to fight at all times, having the ability to look in the eyes, for the front, with the head up the Greek people. Because we have had elections, Mr Mitsotakis, which you have lost. You say to us: 'But why do you refer to the last elections?' What do you want to talk about? In the last few days? In the European elections? What is it that pleases you to refer to?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u393	The referendum!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u394	The referendum? Who? What election campaign do you want to refer to? What election campaign? Within a year and a half, you lost four times and you didn't think that the Greek people have said to you "It's enough! Sit down a little bit! That's enough. Forty years you have been ruling." [[Applause from SYRIZA and ANEL]] I would therefore like to say, Mr Mitsotakis, that if you do not like to talk about the last election, you will be waiting a long time, because the next one will be three and a half years. And yet, these will be lost if you continue that logic and you will be again for another four years in the chairs of Anti-Population.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u395	Thank you. The President of the People's League - Golden Dawn, Mr. Michaloliakos, has the floor. Let's wait a minute, as some people want to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u396	If you have goodness, those who are to leave to do so quickly, so that we can continue the process. Don't be late. Here you go, Mr. Michaloliaco, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u397	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very surprised to hear a leader of a political party on the left earlier giving credit for NATO's humanitarian operation. Where's the time you protested against the bombings in Yugoslavia? You have melted many pairs of shoes making marches and shouting "American, People's Killers". Now you are speaking in favour of NATO and, of course, this is not the only surprise that appeared at today's meeting. We have also had the congratulations of Mrs Merkel to the Chief of Staff, Mr Mitsotakis, on the national consensus on the so-called refugee issue, which is not just a refugee issue. The lowest percentage is refugee. It's a matter of illegal immigrants. Because many times in this Chamber there has been a matter of whether the expression 'lathromatic immigrants' should be used, I would like to present in the minutes a quote from the official newspaper of the European Union, which mentions the expression 'data they certify, that the applicant has used the services of illegal immigrants'. This is from the official website of the European Union. Therefore, stop becoming king's elders and want to change the Greek language. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So he has congratulated Mr Mitsotakis from Mrs Merkel. When one gets congratulations from Mrs Merkel after what has happened in recent years, he must probably take condolences from the Greek people. We have reached the point, SYRIZA, who said in his programme that he will take the country out of NATO at the moment to bring NATO into the Aegean itself. Of course, I should like to refer to the fact that the Prime Minister's flight plan to Iran has changed, where, as you know, the Turks have demanded that the Prime Minister's plane not land in Rhodes, because Rhodes and the Dodecanese, according to them, is a demobilised zone. Turkey has nothing to do with the Dodecanese, for the simple reason that the Dodecanese were granted from Italy to Greece in 1948. Indeed, a positive role in the whole case was then played by the Soviet Union, to be honest, which demanded, precisely because Greece belonged to the West, to the American camp, not to have military powers. It is therefore not legal. In addition, there is a de facto event since the mid-1980s, where it is assumed that there are military forces in the Dodecanese and that the Prime Minister should, because it was demanded by the Turks, go to Rhodes and from there to make a new flight plan and go through Egypt, as he went to Tehran. We believe that the change of plan, if you will, and the fact that the Prime Minister plane did not go to Rhodes, is a key blow to national issues that creates a bad precedent. It is no coincidence that as far as NATO is concerned in our region, the Turks demand that the naval ships do not operate either in the Dodecanese or in Lemnos because they consider them to be a demilitarised region. This matter is still pending. We believe and hope that there will be a strong Greek response and we will not accept that. However, in order to talk about NATO, we must say what Greece has sacrificed for NATO and to hear this for the first time in the House, by a man who does not belong to the Left, and who unfortunately did so by the so-called right, the centreright, the pro-Natural and American friends, if you like, an order. For those who do not know, there would be no problem with Muslims in Thrace, as there is today with Turkish propaganda, if, at pressure from the Americans and NATO, we did not oblige Muslims to learn the new Turkish alphabet and from Ottomans to enter Turkish education. This was a national crime, which nowadays we see some gentlemen playing the role of the fifth whale and reaching the point of speaking up to independent democracy in Western Thrace. Also for those who do not know it, the Greek governments had not recognized Yugoslavia, because within Yugoslavia there was the federal democracy of the so-called Republic of Macedonia and there was a hindrance against Hellenism. That is why we did not recognize them, but once Tito colluded with Stalin, then the government of Yugoslavia recognised it. To come to some critical points in modern Greek history, where the country belonged to NATO. What did NATO do when the Turkish mob erupted Hellenism from Constantinople? Nothing! What did NATO do when they bombed in 1963 and 1964 the Turks first time in Cyprus? Nothing! What did NATO do when we had Attila's invasion in 1974? Nothing! What did NATO do to the Imian crisis? Nothing! What NATO is doing, now that the Turks are questioning our national sovereignty with rock islands, etc.Huh? Nothing! So no requirement can be made by this agency, which has Turkey's affection and is for it to be at the expense of our national interests. In addition, the presence of these NATO warships in our region is grossly unconstitutional, because under Rule 27(2) the presence of foreign troops on the ground is only permitted by a law that will be passed by the majority of parliament Members. And that law was not passed here, nor the matter was raised. Of course, what was previously said by the Prime Minister, that they will not attempt in Greek territorial waters, is at least without a reasonable basis. Because between Lesvos and Asia Minor, between Chios and Asia Minor, Samos and Asia Minor and Ionia - and not Turkey and anyone who understands the meaning of these words - it is not possible for NATO ships to be anywhere. That's where the middle line is. There are no international waters between Lesvos and Ionia, there are no international waters between Samos and Ionia, so they will also attempt within our territorial waters. So we have a gross violation of Article 27. And because there has been a lot of talk - and I shall refer to this - in the past few days, this same article, 27, says that with a majority of MEPs there can be a change in the boundaries of the territory. That is what Article 27(1) says. And ask the rhetorical question: If we decide that we will change the boundaries of the territory and give a prefecture of Thrace to Turkey, what will we be? Heroes or traitors? Of course the answer to this question is obvious. Furthermore, NATO ships that will act in the region do not have the task of preventing the flow of refugees and illegal immigrants - if you like them, not illegal immigrants. They have no such jurisdiction, except to inform the competent authorities, Greek or Turkish. But what does NATO mean in our region? What does it look like? What does it prove? It shows that the famous European Union to which we have given everything, it is a clay-footed hug, it is a submissive of the United States, the policy of US officials and it does nothing beyond the orders it will take from Washington and Wall Street. This is evidenced by both the tactical wars that the Americans in the Middle East have done and which have created this whole issue, as well as the embargo on Russia which Greece has signed and which is at the expense of our national interests. Generally speaking, the European Union works at the expense of the countries and nations of Europe at the request of the United States. It is obvious that the Greek people are much more concerned with him than the civil war in Ukraine, which has been punished against Russia, the one million refugees and illegal immigrants who came to Greece and have created a great social problem. Why, indeed, does the European Union, instead of financing, rather than mocking Turkey, not impose sanctions on Turkey? But, on the other hand, how sure we are that Turkey has the will but also the opportunity to stop the refugee flows at the moment? Only anyone who does not know the facts of the last few months and days can claim it at the moment. In the very heart of Turkey, Ankara became a terrorist attack where dozens of officers were killed. There is a war within their territory by the Kurds, who claim their national independence. The front is open in Syria and possible and very possible h involvement with Russia. Do you think Turkey's only concern will be to stop refugees and illegal immigrants from coming to Greece? Of course not. In addition, as regards the European Union, Greece and refugees, following the recent meeting of the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, and the President of the Officerial Response within the framework of the work of the European People's Party, Mr Mitsotakis, we had a statement from the President of France, Olad, who did not say much or less: 'If we had taken Greece out of the euro, who would now stop the flow of immigrants?' So here's why they want us. They confess it themselves. Greece and Syria are not completely different. Do not forget the time when the so-called opposition forces against Assad stood up, the Greek state closed the embassy of Syria and welcomed the democratic forces which made the Arab Spring in Syria. You weren't a government, it wasn't the SYRIZA government, there was the former regime. What these democratic powers were, we saw it very well through our computers with people's live beheads and all these disasters. This monster has a source of origin and we all know it. This monster was funded by the United States, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Turkey, as official Moscow government officials have revealed. The potential escalation in Syria is a given fact that it brought NATO ships to our region. NATO ships have not come here to stop any refugee, no illegal immigrant. Their presence here is a war energy, in our view, which puts Greece in the whole game and this is a dangerous and unacceptable national energy, which, let the Greek people know, was not on the initiative of Greece or the European Union. On Turkey's initiative. These things have been published. Dabutoglu called Merkel and then Greece got involved in the whole matter. Now, as regards what happened in the previous days, it is at least unfair, it is completely unfounded, that the Golden Dawn is accused of not respecting the Armed Forces. Powers. SYRIZA should probably avoid saying such things at a time when the official part of his party, such as the SYRIZA rights department, is in favour of the army's refusals, seeks the impunity of all those who do not want to wear the honorable uniform of the Greek soldier. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, presents for the minutes the above document which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] We honor the Greek officers and soldiers and no one can tell us that we are insulting the Armed Forces. Of course, it has been a matter for the past few days, and I must refer to that for the expressions of my party of competitor. I really see sensitivity selective, especially when this thing comes out of SYRIZA's side. From May 2010, when we entered the Memorandum until January 2015, the rhetoric of traitors, about german germans, agogs in the Constitution, became the Tahrir Square Constitution, to come the helicopters. Have you forgotten all this? So why are you so uprooted when these traits are attributed to you? I would also like to talk about the great hot spots and say that the famous standardization is literally a farce. I read from what each hot spot is intended to have, that the full application of the Schengen Treaty and the refusal to enter people who do not fulfil the criteria should be demanded. States conducting the checks should identify the security databases imported and temporarily host asylum seekers. Also - here is the most important - it says: on the issue of relocation it is noted that refugees do not have the right to ask which state they want to settle. That is, if Germany refuses to take them, if France refuses to take them, if they refuse, because the borders of Europe are closed - unfortunately, let us not see it, because we have not won any victory, a postponement by 6 March, that is the reality - then Greece really will find itself in front of a big national and social problem. And our only hope is that all these poor people who come to our homeland do not want to stay in Greece. That's our hope. Because there's no bread for the Greeks either. They want to go to the Member States of Europe, because that is where they can find some satisfying conditions with which they will survive. We believe that the Prime Minister made his effort, but his effort with the postponement of March 6, reminds us of Solomos' verse from hymnos to Liberty, "Only influenced the road, exterminately monk, is not easy for the doors if their need is cruttled". Right now, we have the problem, and they're looking to pin it on us. This must be understood and we must also understand that the so-called hot spots policy, which Europeans are subsidising, is not innocent at all. And it is no coincidence that in Kos Island, where there are reactions to the hot spot and there is no hot spot, they have not had a mass influx of refugees and illegal immigrants in the last few days. It is a given fact that Greece has a great demographic problem, Greece dies and what the world's ratification leaders want, who want globalisation and the destruction of the nation states, is the change of the population. After all, he said this directly at a UN meeting held in Switzerland by the German Defence Minister, that for economic reasons, for the sake of cheap labour for their insurance funds, Europeans want to change Europe's population. We do not want to change the population of Greece. We want the Greeks to stay in this place. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] We do not want the Greeks to have the fate of the Indians of North and South America who have been exterminated by some who have brought various forces there. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we, the Golden Dawn, are proud that we, alone, do not consent to this 'national consensus'. We say 'no' to the illegal entry into Greece of all this population, because the country cannot stand. We say no to NATO's presence on our national territory. We say no to the assignment of national sovereignty, and let me repeat - with selective sensitivity - that SYRIZA's factors on betrayals, because four whole years SYRIZA has been talking about traitors and germans. Then was he okay? Now he's displeasing you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u398	Mr President, I would ask the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u399	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u400	From today's website of the University of Heraklion I have written here - and I will table it in the Minutes - the URL which demonstrates that the text submitted by the Prime Minister is now, is of the moment, and is not old.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u401	Very good. To be filed in the Minutes. We're on our way to the President of Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u402	Mr President, there is an insult here to Heraklion and I want the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u403	I don't understand what you're saying. What's that now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u404	I just want the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u405	Mr. Kegeroglu, what issue? Explain to me a little bit and I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u406	Look, there is an insult to Heraklion, especially to the university hospital that the uninsured citizen has to pay and even make him sign, as the Prime Minister said. Unfortunately, he did not read the other page that says he can be introduced into any hospital clinic and can do any clinical tests if he has a booklet of uninsured citizen. This was hidden by the Prime Minister and by all those who speak. That is why we should not insult the hospitals, workers and people who observe the laws. Anyone who has an uninsured booklet, and who has this hour two hundred and fifty thousand families throughout Greece, enters free of charge in hospitals. What is not covered is the primary school, not the hospitals. And that is what we want the Minister to do, who has not yet accepted it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u407	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u408	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u409	Not now, Mr. Igoumenides. On it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u410	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u411	But don't engage in dialogue. You have the floor for thirty seconds only to tell Mr. Kegeroglu, if necessary, about rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u412	I want to testify my personal experience as a doctor at Heraklion University Hospital. Until December 2014, when I resigned ahead of the January 2015 elections, we signed for people that their incidents are urgent. I was one of the doctors I signed. I was one of the doctors that I agreed to give the sick fake evidence so that his tax bill won't go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u413	Because you were a con man, and you didn't tell him to go out and get a book uninsured.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u414	I take responsibility if Mr. Kegeroglu thinks...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u415	You didn't tell him to go out and get a book uninsured.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u416	Because I didn't know, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u417	But you want to have him addicted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u418	You're welcome, Mr. Kegerolgu. Finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u419	If Mr. Kegeroglu stops, I'll finish. I signed up for it because I did not know and sign it, because I was invited by the moving office that he had to know from the health ministers at the time and to inform us about the management's decisions and he did not know about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u420	This booklet doesn't exist...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u421	What isn't there?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u422	There's...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u423	All right, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u424	What are you gonna say? I am absolutely responsible for what I have signed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u425	I'm presenting for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u426	All right, let's move on. The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, has the floor for two legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u427	They're not new. It is simply a small legal improvement to two of the amendments to which I referred earlier. It is the general number 198 and special 18 and the number 196 and the number 16. I just wanted to say something which I failed to say in my previous reference to the parliamentary amendments, that there were two very good amendments, in our view, which faced an injustice, which had arisen from a regulation in fact of 4336, which concerned a reduction in the rate of overtime work for exceptional nights and holidays for nursing and paramedical staff in hospitals and also for the grant of an unhealthy allowance from which pregnant women and those workers were exempted from training leave. We believe that these amendments are correct. We're in touch with the Treasury and the State General Accounting Office. Consent has been assured to go ahead and to the next bill of the Ministry of Finance, which is starting on Thursday, we will arrange to incorporate them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u428	We can continue the debate with the parties' leaders. The President of the Democratic Integration Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fotini, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u429	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, I hope that even from your office you will follow the debate. I have heard you a little earlier saying that there is no chance of them closing the borders of Greece and I really can assure you that I began to worry very much. Because I can't get your picture out of my mind a few months ago, from this Step, you can assure the Greek people that this House is not going to vote for any Memorandum. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] I hope that we can at least hope that for the next fifteen days, and yet until the summit with Turkey, we are at no risk. You returned from Brussels and all night you were trying to leak the picture, that you were coming back a triumphant. Why is that? Because we avoided the worst? Because they didn't get us out of Schengen? Should I remind you that danger you brought him to our doorstep? Maybe why didn't you ever count him, why didn't you ever take him seriously? I would remind you that when you were in the opposition you said 'Come on, what happens if we get out of Schengen?' I have to remember that since you took over we have been constantly faced with the risk of exit, when from the euro and when from Schengen. And in this leak you sent to journalists at night, you should be talking about your own satisfaction with the attitude of the European Socialists and not the reverse. And arrogance has its limits at last! Fortunately they also exist and are stable allies of Greece. It is well known that Europe has been reluctant for years to adopt and implement a plan to address the refugee issue. No one in the European Parliament does nothing to relieve the Europeans, and indeed in this Chamber, of their responsibilities, and first of all, if you like, of the fact that I have moved all this time to ensure that the European Socialists are vigilant and on our side. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] I sent letters to the President of the European Parliament, the Head of the Eurogroup of Democrats and Socialists. We are in open communication, in constant telephone.Communication and this effort has already yielded fruit, because all these people made statements in favour of our country, before the summit begins. And that was a very great need, under the circumstances that you were going to negotiate. Look, please, what Mr. Schultz and Pitella and Gabriel and Steinmeyer said. But what have you done all this time to limit the risks to our country? Why are you telling us about patriotic politics, about patriotic identity. You followed the exact same tactic in the first half of 2015, when with your failed negotiation we were led to the third and hardest memorandum. Inertia, embarrassment, ineffectiveness, ideation, inability. You have suffered and Greece has suffered together. And don't tell us how many of you won, because the question is what your place is gaining from your government. And unfortunately you haven't learned any of your mistakes this whole time. You had, unfortunately, "Varoufakis", Prime Minister, and the refugee, who were praising, that everyone is welcome to this country, who provokedly said that immigrants disappear, who dismantled instead of improving the hospitality structures they existed. You had, Prime Minister, "Varoufakis", who instead of requesting timely assistance and support from the European partners, isolated us even more with unfortunate statements of the press: "We will fill you with refugees, with undocumented people", not only refugees, "and between them and radical elements that will cross the West through Greece". That's what you said. Have you forgotten? How many little "Baroufakes" do you have? Ten? And when will you blame them? Are you or aren't you the Prime Minister in charge? At last take responsibility for your mistakes. Firstly, at the beginning of your term of office you have followed the ideological policy of the so-called open borders at sea and you have sent the wrong messages. Obviously no one is trying to charge you the total problem of Syria and the refugee. But we should at last talk about your real responsibilities, about your share. Secondly, you have not used all the instruments and tools that exist in the European Union in good time at the moment. You have not exploited the financial resources. Only in the last few months have the inputs been coming. You have not even exploited the European Civil Protection Mechanism. A year ago we told you in this Chamber. You could have found considerable resources. Thirdly, you have not complied with the timelines for commitments that you have made yourself. At the summit in the Balkans you made many commitments, without bringing any objections at all, and the hot spots are just the beginning. Fourthly, you have made Greece a country - despite Europe, which is being swept through countries that we helped them get into Europe. Fifthly, you did not contribute to speeding up procedures for the creation of a European coastguard. You have thus relieved Europe of responsibility and the obligation to safeguard its external borders. And you did this for reasons of ideality. Of course NATO now doesn't seem to bother you. Sixthly, you have raised Turkey in a key country in the management of the refugee. You have very great responsibilities for allowing this. Turkey has managed to carry its problem from its borders with Syria not just on its shores - which would make sense - but on the Aegean Sea. And you have a responsibility for this development. The solution, Prime Minister, is not in the Aegean. The solution is on the shores of Turkey. Eleven thousand people came in in two days. They've sinked the islands. And you're talking about patriotic identity. This is an identity without content, Prime Minister. Seventhly, you have also made Skopje a key and a privileged interlocutor and are discussing Skopje that our borders, their borders, can become Europe's external borders. And it's the Opposition? You brought NATO to the Aegean Sea in a context of unclear arrangements. I will not say any more, because last time I said that this is a very delicate matter. I would remind you, however, of what happened last time you spoke in this Chamber about creative ambiguity. And I remind you that in these cases the winner is the most powerful. And be careful, because Turkey does not miss a chance to raise unacceptable demands for our national sovereignty. Ninth, you have said, with comfort, that, contrary to what you told us today, through the appropriate ministers, our borders will be closed at some point. If, Prime Minister, to date you have had a genuinely integrated strategy on this issue, you could ask your counterparts to commit themselves in writing, that there will be no unilateral action and that they will not close the borders. You could demand speeding up procedures for setting up a European coastguard so that Europe does not need NATO. You could push on the partners to quickly take up their share in the relocation of refugees. But now what can you tell them? How can you push? How do you negotiate? You carried out a veto after the conclusions on the refugee question had been drawn. You could speed up the revision of the Dublin II Treaty by setting up a permanent relocation mechanism for the European Union. They've all been determined since spring 2015, but now Europeans are back and you're giving them an alibi, they're being pushed back. This would all be in the conclusions of yesterday's summit, if you had just done your duty. Instead, you took an extension of life. You've taken 15 days, Mr. Tsipras. And to put things in place, I am the first thing I said, that refugee is a national issue. That is why I came to the Council of Political Heads under the President of the Republic and consented to the joint communiqué. I did take the initiative to come and meet you, to talk to you about this issue, to ring the risk bell, to see how we can all take action to help the country. And what did you do? You have tried to make use of this meeting - allegedly - on the Central Left's case. How many more "severe" by this government, Prime Minister? [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] The criticality of the whole situation led me to the decision to request an immediate meeting from the President of the Republic - it was already set for Tuesday morning - to discuss with him concrete actions to be taken both within the country and at European level. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no more time, and above all we do not have the luxury of measuring the errors of your government any more, Mr Tsipras. A national strategy must finally be developed. But national strategy does not mean that you will operate unilaterally and when you screw up, you will come to Anti-Policy and say "Now put your backs because the country is gone!" This is not a national strategy. That's not a national understanding. That's what it's called extortion, Mr. Tsipras! So tell us today - why didn't we hear from you all this time, we watched a lot of knots, but there was no content - why did we not know what you intend to do in this extension of the fifteen days that you took? So tell us, so that we too can help you, help us, but present us with a plan, because time has begun and counted for the fifteen days. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the bill, to the supposedly parallel programme that would be faced with poverty, as you were supposed to give the tenth pension, the increase in the minimum wage, and of course, you would reintroduce tax and give the citizens who have been tested for all these years from the crisis. You know something about lies, Mr. Sgurides said. We, really, what more can we add than that? The man said it all. Besides, the evidence speaks. The much-advertised law to deal with the 2015 humanitarian crisis gave crumbs. In 2014, out of the positive effects on the economy, the social dividend was paid to six hundred and fifty thousand of our economically weak fellow citizens with a total amount of EUR 470,000,000. Of course, the question of electricity, which you are now trying to present, has also been settled. It's okay to go on. It's good to add. It is good to help each other and continue the effort when this has a positive effect on the Greeks who are actually suffering. We don't harm you for continuing to do it. We abuse you for constantly trying to lie to the detriment of the previous ones. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] The PASOK took the lead in this necessary measure. Now you will tell me: 'Good, Mrs. Genemas, and you have solved the problem because you have given this money?' Of course not. We have not solved the problem, but you have only given EUR 108 million for this famous programme that you have managed to design between fillings and jam. It has started piloting into thirteen municipalities in the country the institution of the guaranteed social income, with the provision of coverage throughout the country for 2015. And what did the government do? It took a year and a half to promote the institution, and now that it has been announced for only thirty municipalities, what is coming and doing at the same time? It abolishes the ESS to 20% of the country's low pensioners. So you take them from the poor to give them to the poorer. Impact downwards. Congratulations! You've achieved it! Should you claim luck in other elections? And now you bring a draft law, for which the reference "tricks, bricks, horns irritated" fits. Provisions that repeat our earlier regulations with limiting improvements, of course micro-services, rumbles, in a salt-free, middle and end. Well, we'll vote for some articles, like the medical care of the poor. Besides, it was largely true. You fill it out - and that is why we shall vote on it. But is that all the problem? Do all the issues solve? I would remind you that, in the midst of intense problems, especially from influenza, two hundred ten beds of intensive treatment and increased care in public hospitals do not work due to a lack of staff. The waiting list for a bed in an intensive care unit reaches thirty and forty patients in some cases. The life of Greek patients is based on the friendly efforts of the staff, the human resources of hospitals. At a time when public hospitals are falling apart due to a lack of staff, instead of the recruitment of four and a half thousand people in the EHS that had been approved and provided for in the budget, only ninety-sixteen posts have so far been opened. Of course, the Prime Minister did not hesitate to say that he did those recruitments for a year. Workers in social structures to deal with poverty - social grocery stores, social pharmacies, what we built in cooperation with the municipalities in previous years - are unpaid. And all these structures serve forty thousand citizens. What's gonna happen? Is there any answer to that? Thousands of workers in municipal kindergartens and childcare centres have also been unpaid for five months. Unemployment pulls the rise. The redundancy and recruitment balance of January 2016 was negative as opposed to the January 2015 figure. Finally, you are attempting to charge public health deficits to self-government by transferring responsibility for costs, without transferring the corresponding resources. Now, here I'm gonna have an asterisk tell you, because I've spent years in self-government that you're not the first to do that. Dance keeps good, but you're supposed to come here to bring the new one, fight the old one and blame those who built this system, who continue with all his problems to be a great conquest for the Greek people. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] This is the image of supposedly sensitivity. Ladies and gentlemen, if the government really wants to offer the citizens in need, to the people who experience extreme poverty, it has nothing to do with the proposal for a law tabled by the Group of the Democratic Alliance a few days ago. I will mention the main points: the reintroduction and extension of guaranteed social income throughout the country as from 1 April 2016, the exploitation of 330,000,000 - listen, this is the third time I tell the House, they continue to plunge this money into the European Heritage Fund for our country - the full protection of the first home for borrowers who have joined the n. 3869 and the reintroduction to EUR 1,500 of the irreconcilable account and protection against seizures of privileged and handicapped allowances and disaster aids. I challenge you to adopt the proposal put forward by our group and I invite you all to vote together. Because, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, we will all be judged in practice and not by the words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u430	Thank you, Mrs. Birthday. I see there's two Chiefs left in the Chamber. Mr. Theodorakis, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u431	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u432	Mr. Leventis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u433	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your presence to listen to the humble one too. You know I've been in this House since four months. The day before yesterday at a meeting I was asked which of my proposals have been accepted and what I have achieved. I say: "All I've done is go out and at the end SYRIZA goes through the arithmetic dictatorship. " I was asked, then, at that gathering: 'Well, one did not find it good from what you said, so that they could say 'bravo, Mr Leventis' and accept it?' I say: 'Unfortunately, they did not consider one good'. And we have parallel monologues. So SYRIZA talks, then he comes out and talks to someone else. After speaking ten of SYRIZA and five of the New Democracy, they say, "Come on, Mr Leventis, a Member of the Centro Association to speak as well". This also applies to televisions at the ERT. At ERT, when I was summoned once, there were three journalists from SYRIZA, one from the New Democracy, and then they were interrupted to pass on Mr. Tsipras, from the Ministerial Council for half an hour, three quarters. In other words, there is the dictatorship of time. It's not just the dictatorship of numbers. It's also the dictatorship of time. Even one of what I said didn't think was good. And Mr. Voutsis is here. I have submitted a request for ten days to see how many consultants SYRIZA has, how many poster, how many scientific associates. I haven't received an answer. Isn't the Bureau working? Isn't there a Bureau of Parliament? Or what you're going to say is hard to say? I expect the answer to let the Greek people know whether I am telling the truth about some figures, so much so that SYRIZA respects public money, so much so much the New Democracy, so much so. A bill for the parallel programme was drawn up. What's the parallel program? Because they signed a memorandum, they want aspirins together, painkiller. So the memorial has condemned the country, and aspirin will function as a painkiller. And here was Mr. Mitsotakis, Kyriakos and Mr. Tsipras, who gives most. "We gave 100 million." 'No, we gave 200'. "Come on, man, we've given 350." This was done here in the Chamber in the last few hours. Who gives the most? Who? To the uninsured, to the unemployed, to the dying! There was a bid for who gives most to those who are oppressed and starved. That's in here. You're merciful, gentlemen, not to say merciful! So the parallel program will save the country. Because Thessaloniki could not - the third wage - be realised because those fairy tales about... Anyway, let's not say what Thessaloniki said, because we'll get to your Minister's saying, "Keep us judge us from what we're doing and not from what we've been talking about." Why is that? Is this a crook? In other words, it says your Minister, I heard him on television: 'Keep us judged by what we were doing and not by what we were talking about.' So what were you talking about? How did you get the vote? So there's a confession that you fooled the world! And now we're starting something else. Anyone from a conscience crisis tells the truth must be caratized. They've got him repacking. First they make a fool of him, and apparently after he was caratooned. These are the stages that anyone who confesses what happened. What has happened here before in the Chamber between Mitsotakis and Tsipras, I think it is insane. He was telling each other who made it better. Ask society how you both did it. Let him do better. We don't have any exact scales here to see who did it better. If you're all out here, what do they say? Why did people leave New Democracy? Because it's disgusting. Why is he leaving you? Because she's disgusting. The world no longer tolerates lying, cheating, mocking. The world can't stand it. If you were honest, if you said "we were wrong in our assessments", if you said "we weren't expecting this situation, we were ignorant" to understand you. But here you have passed from the fraud of the elections to the brutality of the post-elections, and you say that you also took the vote three times. So when? With the promises, the referendum that came out at night and 'yes' and 'no' - all 'yes', 100% 'yes', you saw them - and in September you said - and here is the greatest fraud - that the world knew everything that would happen in Parliament after September. You have such courage to say that people knew what is happening now. You completely underestimate the intelligence of the world. I was invited by Mr. Kammenos to inform me of the NATO issue. My position from the start was that NATO must mix it up. Why mix it up with NATO? Because it's an alliance and we're allies. If we suspect NATO, then we'll leave. That's what logic says. But when I asked him if Turkey would stick to what was agreed - it gave me some papers - he said: 'We will denounce it. NATO..." - says - "You know, Mr. Leventis, it maintains neutrality. We..." - he says - "...if we point out a ship leaving the Turkish coast full of refugees, we will inform NATO Headquarters". I say to him: 'In practice something has been done to believe that these agreements are being respected by Turkey?'. It responds: 'We will see it'. Turkey is aware that the agreements have no objection. It's against the law. In practice, it dances in the basilica, Greece. You bankrupt the country and the country is almost unarmed, because Karamanlis the fifth generation Fantom didn't get it - remember it - to save money. You in the SYRIZA are of the opinion that defensive spending must be reduced. If, then, we reduce defence spending, how are we going to deal with Turkey, since neither NATO nor anyone can be trusted? Can you tell me? Oh, no. You want it all yours. You want to appoint in the public world. You want to make ruffles. You want to cut the defensive costs and swear NATO, which NATO has made it hard for you to accept. Even FRONTEX and the coast guards of a joint crew from the States of Europe have made it difficult to accept them. You say they take away our national independence. I want to see now when the countless crowds begin to invade where you're going to go. To NATO, to President Obama or, as in Byzantium, to Virgin Mary, please save you? What if the country leaves Schengen? Your Prime Minister has succeeded by some day of March in staying in Schengen. What are we going to do next day? Do you know what a success this is? You succeeded in staying in Schengen for about twenty days. I'm waiting for the 20th one to see what's going to happen. The Left, which, as a young one, always preferred because it expressed visions, expressed the dreams of youth, has become right and has become right than right. He wants to put his hands on everything. I have no reason to cover anyone. But you need to know something very important. Outside - come with me, let the President of Parliament come, let him wear a mask - everyone tells me: "To God, Tsipras and give him a vote." I've said it before. Not one, Mr Voutsi, said to me: 'Take a vote on Tsipras'. And I'd like to give, how am I supposed to give?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u434	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u435	Oh, okay, you're neutral.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u436	I'm not told that Leventis should come with me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u437	You're unbroken. I get it, I get it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u438	I'm not at all unbroken. They say to me: 'Go ahead, you're doing well.'
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u439	Mr Voutsi, I say to you: if you want to join me, see if a citizen tells me "support Tsipras". Of course, these citizens... [[Noise - Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] I'm not talking to you. If you're troublemakers, get out when I talk. Of course, no one tells me in favour of the New Democracy. There's no doubt about it. The New Democracy has been tested and failed. There's no doubt about it. And what the New Democracy is doing now is, in my view, guilty of not having the right to speak. Speak as what? What did she do? What did he do? Which area did it achieve? If he had succeeded, wouldn't the world have appreciated it? The world is just. It's not an unfair world. But you also deceived the world, gentlemen of SYRIZA. You cheated on him. And if you want, make an election! If you're not afraid! If you're scared again, I'm telling you you're gonna fall apart. Do you know why you'll collapse? I am told by some that 'why do you insist on talking about the universal government that has to be done, since you see that neither Tsipras nor Mitsotakis want it?' I will tell you why I insist on it. If I am convinced that something is right in the country, I will insist. It's my construction. After all, I had a dream of young people building coalition governments and coalition governments, getting out of self-restraints, why did self-restraints have the vote and the vote? That in order for a party to be kept in power, he was sceptical and so the country went bankrupt. If we were not taught by the bankruptcy of the country, let us remain in these electoral systems of the strengthened country. And for SYRIZA to know that if he means simple analogues, only then will the Centro Association vote. "System that is inclined..." will not be voted on. Simple analogue means that a party will want 50% plus one vote to form a self-powered government. These "we're reducing the bonus", the territipes, the tactics of Mr. Kurubllis won't go through the Centroon Union. In order to create self-government, it takes 50% plus one vote. That's just proportional. But let us now come to why I insist on the universal. In the universal I insist, because I predict that Mr. Tsipras will collapse, and what you say about doing it alone is dreams of summer night. Already the confessions of some of your officers, that you deceived the world and others you said before, are enough, because they go hand in hand with the spirit of the world, a world you underestimate. These bonds will be increased in the future as long as you go to vote for the insurance. You should know that. And my insurance predicts that it will not be put to the vote. You said you'd bring it on January 10th. How much of February do we have today? How many days have it been? It's been forty days since 10 January and you haven't brought it. When you bring it, then the government will fall. And I turn to Mitsotakis, why did Mr.Adonis Georgiadis, his Vice President, say, "What are you doing, Mr. Leventis, in our interiors?" I'm not even involved in SYRIZA's interiors, predicting some things. I don't do it to get involved. Does the President of a party not have the right to say his views on the country? I did not say that if we need to become an universal, Karamanlis will work to break down the New Democracy, but I said that if Mitsotakis insists on the hard line that Tsipras will collapse and so he will prevail, then there are wise men in the New Democracy who will not let us go out of the euro. That's what I said. And such a wise factor, despite my radical disagreement throughout my life with him, is Costas Karamanlis. I believe that he will not leave Mitsotakis in a sprinkling. Of course, it is also a good thing that Mitsotakis does not come down and that the entire New Democracy should go to the universal. I don't do it to get involved in the inside. I see that without a global government no investment will come in Greece. They are seeking a government of two hundred forty MPs. They're asking for political stability. There won't be a single investment here. Don't make fun of the world! That's the first. There won't be a single investment unless it's a universal government. Secondly, a government with two hundred and forty seats, I am sure it will achieve the maximum relaxation of the programme in Europe. It is another government that is ready to fall and another government that will be the last attempt of a people to stay in the euro. These are my thoughts. These are the ones I'm trying to tell the channels anywhere. Sometimes journalists don't let me go, sometimes they interrupt me, sometimes they say inconveniences and arrogant arrogances, others blame me. You can blame as much as you want. The next few weeks will show. I was sorry to see them eat here today, Mitsotakis and Tsipras. Let them both face up! They must know that at this time they are harming the country. The country would like political leadership to make transcendence and unity. If they don't understand it, and if you applaud them in the curtain, let all of you look! The country wants universality and I call it as much power as my voice has, I call it so that the outsiders can see it, and I know that the Greek people have it by pressing. I would like to say one last thing: some processes are on the centre-left side. Let it happen. Welcome processes. But the main thing is, I'm shouting about some things here. I have called for half of the Members' wages to be cut, half of the Members' wages to be reduced, half of the Members' wages to be reduced, to advisers, post-mortem and several others. And I can't find a response either from the river or from the genome. Where are they? The Centro Association proposes some things and I do not find any small help. Where am I supposed to find out? So, here I see that some things have become professionals and guilds. That's what I feel. This Greek people will not allow it. But, above all, we must change the Rules of Procedure of the House. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he would be prepared to give us an answer to this question. Are we afraid of dialogue? Alongside monologues, the dictatorship of numbers is facilitated. It makes it easier for each ruling party to pass its views. And you to the right when you had authority, why didn't you fix it? Then the arithmetic dictatorship was in your favor. It made it easier for you. And now SYRIZA has received it. As also, Andreas Papandreou, at first, when we built PAK and PASOK told us "we will do simple analogue" and when the chairs of the right came and held them. And you at Tsipras stop saying "the New Democracy and the PASOK are cooking for all". The PASOK in you is nestling. And you left-wing criminals did another crime. Do you know what you've done? Instead of you swallowing the PASOK that came to you, he swallowed that one in a mental sense. Understood? So you've become a bad new version of PASOK. So don't say it's for all PASOK and the New Democracy. The PASOK came to you in order to maintain its achievements. That's it. What has been left at Mrs Gennimatas is the 'Cinnamons of the Acropolis'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u440	The Minister has asked for the floor, Mr. Xanthos. Parliamentary representatives will be followed. Here, Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes. I think it's quite enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u441	Ladies and gentlemen, a two-day debate is closed. I think the reason for this charge is obvious. We have a bill which every well-meaning citizen understands is a relief intervention for people who were excluded from health care and access to public health services, but also for the health system itself. Nor are there any bricks and horns irritated, so there is a systematic effort in these two days by the Opposition to discredit this bill, to discredit this intervention as non-cohesion policy. We've been talking about it all tons. The political signal is absolutely clear. And I will answer these two days' philology, which said this was solved. We are facing a serious social problem, and at the same time we are strengthening the efficiency, effectiveness and functionality of the public health system. The opposite is that we had set that up. Report, ladies and gentlemen. You are insulting the intelligence of the uninsured citizens, who, even in these days, with their interventions in the Ministry, in the administrations of hospitals, in the administrations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I believe in Members, manifest their anxiety and insecurity when they have to deal with a serious health problem and are uncertain. There have been two joint ministerial decisions. In practice, they were not implemented and were not working. Do you know why? 'Cause there's a dissuasive way in. For the hospitalization of uninsured people, there was firstly the three-member committee which had to approve the introduction. This joint Ministerial Decision stated that the decisions of the designated three-member committees and the administrative boards of hospitals may be subject to the control of the EDPS. What was the signal, ladies and gentlemen? Take care of who you're going to approve. If you put more of it, we will send the EDPS, that is, the Health Inspectors' Corps, to check you out and possibly account for the excess expenditure. And, of course, the second deterrent mechanism was this declaration of acceptance of debt, which the moving office was obliged to have the insurer sign, which means that it recognizes the debt and the cost of the hospitality is transferred to the DU. That was six years ago and it continues to happen to this day. This text we gave, tabled by the Prime Minister, is currently on PAY's active site, as is a corresponding text on all the websites of the major hospitals in the country. They sent me a few minutes ago from the "Grannas" Hospital. Everywhere there is this footnote. The uninsured can be served if he passes the approvals, but he will pay. That's why there was the deterrent...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u442	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u443	Mr. Kegeroglu, please. Enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u444	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu. Don't interrupt. Let the Minister speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u445	You will continue your lies... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u446	Enough! Political vulgarity will not be monitored, Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u447	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u448	Nor, of course, could the two and a half million uninsured, which at some point reached three million, be entitled to a booklet, as you said before. Therefore, this mechanism prevented uninsured people, who naturally did not have an urgent and vital risk to their health from seeking treatment in the public health system. This concerned particularly cancer patients, people with rare illnesses, who needed very long and expensive treatments. We have masses of reports from the long-term sufferers' clubs, from patient clubs across the country where the first issue they raise is the coverage of uninsured people in the public health system. We are therefore dealing with this issue, ladies and gentlemen, no matter how much you do not like it. And society knows it and watches it and takes it as a very important relief intervention. Secondly, this intervention is obviously the issue of the health care of migrants, refugees and asylum seekers. You're telling us that that's where we're very large. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are saying is that the state must provide people who are at risk of their lives and who present an acute health problem during their stay in the country of free services, does not say so by the SYRIZA Government. It's called the World Health Organization. The ECDC, Europe's Special Infection Control Centre, says so. All conventions and human rights charters say so. In doing so, we are strengthening the European identity of the country. And we prove that at a difficult time for society, with real difficulties, with budgetary problems, we can deal with dignity and with respect for the humanitarian ideals of every one who needs health care. What have we done, ladies and gentlemen, in the health sector? We said we'd do three four basic things. Firstly, we will ensure universal coverage of the population. And we implement it, without morals, without obstacles, without bureaucratic filters, without mechanisms to prevent it. Secondly, we stabilise the functioning of the public health system, which was at risk. We increased funding. That is undeniable. Even the Special Expert of the World Health Organisation and the UN on Human Rights, Mr Bohslavski, who came to our country in December 2015, says he welcomes the government's decision to allocate for the first time for many years additional funds for public health care in the 2016 budget. May I remind you what the previous report of 2014 also says to the UN expert, Mr Shepherd Lumina? It was a reproach and a trick for the country, for the health crisis to which austerity policies had led. Thirdly, we have said that we will strengthen the system in a human capacity and do so systematically. I have here a whole file with all the notices and recruitments that have been promoted in this period: the 4K and 5K notices, the next package of recruitments by a Ministerial Council Act, the CCI notice for CCIs, the CCI notice for the hundreds of thousands of workers in the public structures of the first five islands, and the act of Ministerial Council for AS and the recruitment of subsidiary doctors. The whole human resource enhancement file of the system, with three and a half thousand recruitments, to be implemented in the first half of 2016. Is this a continuation of the political dissolution of the system? Fourthly, we said that we would be moralizing the system and doing so. We have sent the signal that it is no longer tolerated to dismantle public money, provoke demand, waste and corruption. And we're putting insurance rings on the O.R.S. list and we're organizing the EEAS and its information system, which makes sampling checks with statistical analysis and has already begun to find overcompensations made by private providers, for services they provided to the insured. We will not manage in the same way the budgetary costs of a health system for which we must ensure that its resources and human resources and materials are used in the best way possible. Because that is what society needs today. We are giving special encouragement to the bill - and also no one disputes this - for both barren and island regions, to start specialisation by young doctors in the country and to facilitate the movement of human resources into the system without client-based logic and dependencies from a ministerial model that has regenerated all these years the hard customer system. This is a very important reform and an incision. We decentralize the process in the health regions. It is not necessary for people in need, who have serious social, economic and family problems, to knock on the doors of ministers and MPs to serve. With an electronic transparent platform, this will be done and so the public health system will operate from now on. Obviously, we need a strategic debate on the health system. And they need very large reforms and cuts. It also needs to be lifted by the hospital and the medical center and become more ambulance, with respect for the dignity and rights of patients. We are strengthening this in the bill. We make committees at the Ministry's level, we make offices not of service, but of protection of rights, so that citizens also feel that they are not helpless in the public hospital, that there is a mechanism that can denounce both bad behaviour and exploitation. Of course, we need a strategic debate. Our view is contrary to the neoliberal plan, which says: private-public competition and anyone who can withstand, an incentive to invest and entrepreneurship in the health sector, and then a safety net for the most impoverished.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u449	You're short, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u450	In the face of this neoliberal logic, our view is: priority in public care, universality and equality; we are developing the public sector gradually on the basis of the budgetary margins we have in the next period; investment in human resources; and the private sector has a complementary role; it meets real needs, which the public system cannot cover in time and reliable. That's our logic. That's another political plan. What exactly is your political plan? Will you explain to us, or will you only plunder for the deaths of the flu, when the whole scientific world knows that it is an international phenomenon right now? What exactly is the New Democracy's health plan? What does a lesser state mean to health? Are they going to be hired? Will the needs be met? Does EEAY have to give part of the resources of the public insurance system and public structures, so does a social redistribution mechanism also work? To understand, what's your political plan? There's no, dear friends, or maybe you don't dare say it. It is the political plan of extreme neoliberal deregulation. We will also get a few vouchers, if we can, from the NSRF, to cover those who do not have the opportunity. The political response to this is equality and universality. To implement this plan, you must believe it, you must believe in equality. You cannot be with the market and competition, which we know very well that in times of crisis they produce inequality. We do not particularly accept health inequalities, because we do indeed have a social asset.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u451	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u452	I shall conclude, Madam President. Because it has been proven by the National School of Public Health, not by the Pulladza Institute, that the health crisis has a class mark, that is, it affects mainly the poor and the weak in that country, and that is why the treatment of the health crisis and the removal of health inequalities is a class-and-a-half intervention. You tell us society is on the rails and society is boiling. That's true. It is precisely because it is so that society at this time needs to get a signal from the government and from the political system that changes and legislation can also be promoted, which are not imposed by the partners and creditors but are working to meet social needs, that there can be other political priorities in this country at this difficult time. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] What you are actually saying to us is that you cannot do anything but apply the memorandum, because that is what you, ladies and gentlemen, have done in previous years. We, therefore, have shown with this bill that interventions aimed at meeting social needs can be made and, above all, at the most vulnerable areas. And this proves that the government can legislate on the basis of the values of the Left, the values of equality, solidarity, the emphasis on social goods, social redistribution. That is why the Left has the value of these interventions. At this time of crisis, during this period of poverty, society has chosen and despite the difficulties and frustrations, despite the low expectations of this period, in fact, because your inconvenience is a structural one, yet it still continues to monitor, once with anger, sometimes with distrust, but it still continues to monitor and support this government and wait for it to succeed. And this government, ladies and gentlemen, will succeed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u453	Well, year after year, we've all done incredible excesses. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-one students and three educational attendants from the School of Skoutariou Serres. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Well, now it's the turn of the parliamentary representatives. Mr. Panayotarus from Golden Dawn asks to precede because he has an emergency job. Come on, Mr. Panayotare. You have four minutes. I'll be very strict in time. Only the representatives who have not spoken to their leaders have eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u454	Thank you, Madam President. Deuteronology, isn't it tritology? Well, attending these two days the conversation that is taking place within this Ethiopian, as well as everything that is happening in the wider region, the inspiration of the theater of irrationality would literally go crazy. We see that there is a competition between the Government and the Anti-Population Officer who is more large or extralarge with illegal immigrants and the few invaders in our country. We heard last night when this amendment from the Ministry of National Defence, the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Vitsa, Head of the Armed Forces, came to speak of our country's internationalist duty to speak about the duty of hospitality. But he neglected, he forgot that as the Chief of the Armed Forces above all must put the duty to guard the borders, to safeguard the integrity of our homeland. Mother and father more honorable than Patrice! That is what our ancient ancestors said, as well as other things that you have written in the oldest of your shoes. And, of course, it is not the govern ment of illegal immigrants, NGOs and all that you are now officially bringing with this amendment. This amendment says that the Ministry of National Defence will be able to make direct commissions for the construction of hot spots - soon throughout Greece, not only the five in the islands and one in Athens and one in Thessaloniki, because that is the widest - for feeding, housing, care for illegal immigrants and a few refugees. But for the Greeks nothing, only the bill. Half of Asia and half of Africa will be installed here, so that you can have a so-called debt relief. What debt and what relief, all of which shows that there will be no haircut of some form or lengthening or something else in the media. And all this unlike what he said last night at a press conference, after the hard negotiations between the European Union and Britain ended, the Prime Minister of England speaking to the European Union, having only the English flag behind him - not this blue thing over here supposedly the symbol of the European Union - said that England, above all...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u455	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u456	Please, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u457	You're talking about the flag, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u458	What? Do you have a problem? You talk about what you want. Please, Madam President, please tell him to stop if you have graciousness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u459	What are these now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u460	Okay, whatever I want to say. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u461	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u462	If you don't like it at the cafeteria. Understood? Thank you. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] The Prime Minister of Great Britain said that, above all, it is Britain, we love Britain, we do not love the European Union, he explained and succeeded with tough negotiations - because these are negotiations - that it is not just the euro in the European Union, but there are many other currencies and many other interests, which show how people negotiate for the interests of their homelands. And the other European leaders, all of whom are far-right, are bad, all of whom are miserable, put above all the integrity of their homeland, unlike our Prime Minister, who said here that we should all unite under the flag of humanism and humanism - which is the same thing. But the only flag in this country for us is the Greek flag and no one else. He said a number of excuses that the flows were so great. Yes, and you have done everything you have done in recent months, in the past year you have made them even bigger and do nothing to stop this disgrace that is happening at the expense of our country. We have heard too much that, because of time, we cannot talk about it, although the Greek people have heard too much. To thank the President of Parliament for the yesterday's avada he has made us, for the expressions that the rulers and others have used in recent years and have not sweated anyone's ears. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In thirty seconds' time, Madam President. Of course, we have heard the terrible thing from a New Democracy speaker that the New Democracy is, he says, next to the people's problems. But you are all the problems of the Greek people, and you should have understood it and not move the finger to others, who of course are your worthy followers. Either way, while geopolitically everything changes in our area, we whistle. We repeat that for the Golden Dawn, it will always be the Greek first and then everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u463	Thank you, too. Now Mr. Igoumenides from SYRIZA has the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u464	Thank you, Madam President. There was a lot of talk about the uninsured. I will simply submit two documents to the Minutes. One relates to the study of the newspaper 'TANS' in October of '14. It describes a situation in hospitals where with false evidence, false evidence, so that the tax bill does not go to the tax office, doctors sign the sick irregularity, or give them an Irregular discharge or leave irregularly. This situation that describes 2013 existed at least at the University Hospital until the moment I left. The second element I am going to submit - not to worry, I am not in breach of medical secrecy, obviously I have all the details of the card - is a card from the PANGNE Emergency Department. It's about sick kidney disease and cancer patients. The Emergency Department in its introduction to the main symptom or situation writes: Debts 9,738,68 euros. That's how the sick were treated. That's the situation we found. That's who we're dealing with. [[At this point the Member, Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In any case, it is good that the traps are removed, the tripods are removed, supporting, time-consuming procedures, prior approval by three-member committees. Uninsured persons now have access, without a declaration of acceptance of debts, without a transfer of the debt and have free access to laboratory examinations. I would like to dwell on just one point, Madam President. There was a lot of talk about SYRIZA lying, saying, "see what he said in September 2014 and what he promised in Thessaloniki and said today," he said, "they are not just liars, and therefore, not only do you believe them," "even the bill that comes today for distraction", "the programme of Thessaloniki must be called a deception program", "they are not just liars, they are also frauds, and therefore, not only don't believe them" - they even come to today's reality - "but you don't even talk with them." We lied? Those who claim this actually heard the Thessaloniki program's positions, went to bed and woke up today! Conscientious, unconsciously, deliberately, without wanting it or because that is where they reach their mental level, they substantially overlook the one year that took place from September 2014 to September 2015. It was a year of tough negotiations, we say. The President of the New Democracy a moment ago called into question the fact that we were even negotiating. It was a year after the well-known agreement, for which a lot of talk has been made, an agreement that was marked by a'painful compromise', by the Prime Minister himself, up to 'political defeat'. So if we want to judge whether SYRIZA lies, first of all we need to see the period from September 2014 to January 2015 or the period from September 2015 to October 2015. And if we look at it that way, we will see that, not only did we not deceive the Greek people, but we have sincerely asked for his vote. I would like to ask a question and I will close with that. Why did we come up with this deal? They tried to reach out to Mrs. Genemas and Mr. Mitsotakis a moment ago. Did we have bad negotiators? Did we have negotiators who didn't want to negotiate? Did we have negotiators who didn't want to agree? Did we have negotiators who didn't exhaust their arguments? I don't ask the question to see who we're going to shoot. I wish it were that simple. We'd find someone and "little him." They've heard a number of names about it. I ask why it is necessary for our people to keep conclusions, if you want, not only for why we have reached this agreement, but also for how we will proceed and achieve our objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we have reached it and not a better or worse agreement, because that was where the fighting social forces reached the hand. Like a man of movement, I don't understand the movement as a lever that moves Omonia - Constitution or a ball in the central square of every major city or, if you want, like a block, whatever block you want, across Greece. We had a movement that is here today, present in all our debates - so I understand - that we have a movement that made clear what it does not want and expressed this thing many times. However, we are not fully in a position to use this movement, we are not in a position - to use a first pluralist person, viewing myself and the people of SYRIZA - to face up to and crush the resistance of the establishment, which is obviously not prepared to surrender and which is obviously resisting and will continue to resist our efforts. In conclusion, I would like to say that I believe that it is a prerequisite for the implementation of a left-hand policy to be a left-handed policy that is the fight ties of the left-hand government, which it legislates, with the fighting social forces. These race ties will determine the depth of any changes we achieve. These race ties are aimed at 'do not believe liars'. Present and against the rotten, old establishment and its will, we in these struggles and race ties will take the lead, we will strengthen them and I believe that we will be able to meet the demands of society. That's how we'll finally make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u465	Mr Brutsis has the floor from New Democracy for four minutes. Because I'm diligent, you're all over your time. But because we have come to the end and I see that temper is running out, I ask you all to respect it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u466	Madam President, thank you very much. I'll be consistent in time as long as I can. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the end of a process and the question which arises is: If anyone today attempts after a year and a half to govern SYRIZA - so close to - to see what Greece sends to the global social and economic environment, what message it sends today with a SYRIZA government, I would say that they would see Greece - those who see it from abroad - as a country that has put a huge sign: 'We do not want businesses, we do not want investment, we do not want a private sector. On the other hand, in the name of our left-wing ideal, we are a country where we are overtaxing, we are a country that is destroying anything productive, but we promise justice in the bastion and an equalization of impoverishment." This is the image of our country. Fortunately for the country, unfortunately for SYRIZA, the Greek people understood you. He felt deception, and today we are at a time when the polls show your collapse. This is evidenced and comes as a result of the world's consciousness of the great lies, starting with Mr. Tsipras with the tractors, starting with the falsification programs of Thessaloniki, until the history of me, what happened the day before yesterday in Crete, where farmers confirmed what all SYRIZA MPs were doing on a line from SYRIZA to undermine the national effort: "I don't pay tolls, I don't pay taxes, I don't pay HISY." This is what the farmer said in Crete and all of Greece was shocked. That would never be the case by a New Democrat MEP, because today we are still hurting homeland and putting Greece above New Democracy. That's our difference. We would never sacrifice the good of the country to come to power. You'll pay for that. It's the price SYRIZA pays today. Next time, there's something else, more overwhelming. In a year and a half of power, SYRIZA, the Greek people, beyond what the Minister of Health said, are experiencing the cruel reality. Mr. Mitsotakis said so, I repeat it, and I say so now. There is not one Greek who has been saying since December 2014 that he is better, neither unemployed nor weak, nor a vulnerable social group nor a homeless businessman nor a retired or farmer. This is the harsh reality that haunts SYRIZA today and confirms that for anyone who lies politically, for anyone who has populism as a sign in his politics, soon comes payment from society itself. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill - we have said it, we repeat it - is a bill that makes wishes, legislates good intentions. Of course, some of the provisions that are positive will be voted on. We're not SYRIZA. We are not making a structural opposition, but our differences in social policy emerged in the course of the debate. Of course we're different. It's not a class matter. You say the word 'taxation'. It's real. You cannot create and create a social environment for protecting the weak unless you create wealth that you will redistribute. Did a businessman, a SYRIZA MEP from you or your Chief, talk about investment, for a private sector, to create jobs? Oh, no. Only justice to poverty, custodium and impoverishment. This, however, is a cathode string that constantly drives society down. You create social automation and divide society and divide it, in the logic of "whoever has something is an enemy of what he doesn't have", and you should create the motives so that he who doesn't want to go any more. That's where we're different. That's the big difference. That is where you differ Europeanly, because this notion you have is not a European one. The European concept is ours. On social policy issues, I have proved to you - and they are registered, and the Greek people also know them - that we established A21. Real policy. Seven hundred fifty - five million New Democracy served over six hundred thousand families. This is social policy with transparent criteria and a social divide from the sacrifices of the Greek people. Four hundred and fifty million, which were given to five hundred thousand families, minimum guaranteed income, which we started, is the law, 'frozen' - that is social policy. In practice, however, I believe that what you do with this bill is - and I return to what the Minister says - egoism and arrogant asymmetrical. You've found a prepared, legislated coverage environment for our country's unsafes. And - be careful, I answer now, because it is the crucial question - we have covered uninsuredly, all Greeks and legal immigrants in our country. So it's not classic the difference over here racist. It's a legal difference. In fact, your bill extends health care to everyone, and to non-legislative in Greece. That's the truth. This is where we'll agree. That's the difference in the bill. But we will all be judged here, because your bill is unspeakable. This is not a good government that legislates properly and correctly, because it must all be costly. I repeat the number - the intransigent number! - because I want those listening to us to keep it at the end of the procedure: One of ninety articles in the bill, costing only twenty, with an amount of 111 450,000 euros. The rest is unspeakable. The Accounting Office couldn't afford it, you didn't provide any evidence. They have means of service, "the other side", friends. You do build a state of SYRIZA, but the Greek people have understood you and your days are few. I close with this, Madam President. Because the SYRIZA propaganda is now known and has become aware, i.e. when it finds it difficult to pull back logical mud, propaganda and anachronistic issues that have expired, and since yesterday and today with headlines you put the "Boyarns list" headline in your policies. You did it because the matter of the communication of the bill was lost. He was canceled in society, he didn't pass, and you said you'd do something else. I read the translation of Mr. Boyarns himself, who spoke to the SCA on a specific date and said: "It had nothing to do with a list. We, three years ago, offered to help strengthen the Greek tax mechanism with the experience we had. In 2010, I began my efforts. In 2012, after two years of experience on the subject, I then spoke to the Consul General in North Rhine-Westphalia. There was no list.” Repeat twice: "There was no list. I told him we can only offer our services with the experience we had. It was a turbulent period then. There was a lot of talk about the Lagard list." That's the truth. With lies, then, you can't beat the truth, which is relentless and you see it in the polls about SYRIZA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u467	Mr. Karras has the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u468	Thank you, Madam President. To sum up the debate that has taken place, both in the committees and yesterday's sitting, I would like to say that, in commenting on the bill, I said that it was a stitch. Today, along with the amendments which have been tabled, I will say that it is a perforated legal text. Why am I saying that? It's inappropriate. First of all, it is not approachable, nor do we know what is being regulated, nor do we know what is being voted on. On the substance, it was very much said that it offers the Greek people relief. Forgive me, but crumbs offer. And why do we say that? Because the street of misery continues. No attempt is being made to overcome this misery, and we are even talking about providing service to the Greek people! Yesterday I voted on some of the provisions that are going to be voted on today. I said, therefore, that Article 3 on NGOs does not have a register, and we fear that public money will continue to be dispersed for purposes which are not ultimately measurable. In Article 6, I raised the following question: Why did local officials refer for a felony to remain in their place and not be put on holiday, while the provisions of the Municipal Code have been put on holiday since the beginning? Is something hiding? I asked if anything was hidden, whether some are settled or covered. I didn't get an answer. I'm on my way. Some provision which seemed to me - and I can say that it has bothered me - is Article 27. In this article we dismantle all the libraries, neither children nor adolescent library anywhere. We're saying we're transferring them to the municipalities, making them through the municipalities, but in the last paragraph of Article 27, what does it say to us? It says that the available cash balances of libraries, children and adolescents are entered into the Treasury. Well, was the need of the Greek state so great that we could get and put these few euros into the state cork, which these libraries might have at their disposal and with which they would buy some small equipment or take some books to read the children? And let us not forget that these libraries do not operate in the urban centres. They operate in remote areas. I want to stand by Article 33 with a word. We strongly criticised him for the way he was proposed and for the way he regulates them. He's got a wide range. We have, however, concluded - and we also state in the Chamber - that we will finally vote on it for humanitarian reasons. Irrespective of pathology, of the failures, of the defects in this article, we shall vote on it. I want to say very little about health and to finish. We waited to see if there was a health budget. On the contrary, the health budget is reduced every day in a way that we fear that public health is being jeopardised. And why do we say that? We combine it with those provisions of the bill which now go to the regions with the financing of health centres. It is an issue that was also raised in 2010 with the municipalities and has failed miserably. The municipalities never had the capacity to finance health centres. Do regions have more resources? You will see, then, that this can come to create an extra problem. While we are talking about a minimum economy, why should the state budget not be financed by the health centre of a remote region, where the region may also be poor? In Greece there are poor regions - to remind Western Macedonia, to remind the continent - which lack resources. So why would that happen? Are we going to join the misery, too? I do not want to say much more, but I want to stay on two health issues which we consider to be important. It's coming up, it says, the possibility of extracting from a hospital to a hospital. But where we are all shouting - and we are struggling - that there are gaps in hospitals and that it has to be a notice from 2012 or 2010 - I am not accurate - to hire doctors and we all hear that they will be recruited by doctors, today we will move them in and, in the form of secondment, we will continue to strip the hospitals and move to the best places, possibly, the adorable ones? We therefore believe that this issue is a huge one. So I'm going to the last one. General Hospital of Thera. You have luxurious provisions in the bill. What's he telling us? He tells us that by law he is licensed to operate and enter the category of general hospitals. Was it checked? Has there been a report on whether the General Hospital of Thera, which is thus being legally upgraded, meets the conditions for being a general hospital or was it a regional health centre, and today we are giving it that name? They're questions that remain. I would like to say the last thing about the amendments, with which we are really tired in this Chamber, Madam President. You are a law-abiding law-abiding law-abiding law-abiding person. You and the other Presidents also accept that the ministers should carry out whole contracts in a form of amendment. Mr. Spirtzis did it for the highways. What's he telling us? ‘It is approved. You have no right to put a party." Do we know if this covers scandals? Do we know if it covers other purposes? Why every time a contract, which can be called into question, should come by law? And I will ask about the scandal: why does it not go to the Court of Auditors first so that we know what is hidden and how much the state is burdening? You know well that the public works and services contracts of these millions, tens and hundreds go beyond the prudential control of the Court of Auditors. In the way you legislate, you are undermining the scandals, for the reason that you are avoiding the control of the supreme court. It's a scandal. This is the first time I've been talking about scandal in this Chamber and I'm going to keep looking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u469	Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u470	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the parties of the former two-partyism react and strongly oppose the arrangements of the relevant draft law because it is attempting for the first time to erupt the client structures and abolish a system of citizens' hostages. But not this bill. The opposition, unfortunately, is exposed. The purpose of this bill is undoubtedly to alleviate the financially weaker and to alleviate the consequences of the economic crisis. The vulnerable social groups, who have experienced their consequences more strongly, are interested and have looked at these promoted regulations. There is no doubt at all that this draft law is the continuation of the adopted draft law to deal with the humanitarian crisis. Everyone says it, all opposition parties. Let us see, however, what they said in March 2015, when the relevant draft law was passed, in order to clarify what the Prime Minister said, that the opposition does not want the government to succeed? What were they saying in March 2015 when the humanitarian crisis bill was passed? Evangelos Venizelos: "We, ladies and gentlemen, are voting for these provisions, but we are not going to vote against them if the government comes at some point under the pressure of the partners to ask Parliament to vote against these provisions." You are therefore voting against them, since it is a follow-up to the humanitarian crisis bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u471	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u472	I'm on it. Mrs Vayssade: 'It is a national effort, we support it'. Istanbul: 'We are voting in principle on the bill to deal with the humanitarian crisis, because it concerns our fellow human beings, who really need us.'
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u473	Did Sguride quit? Are you only going to deal with us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u474	Please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u475	Quiet! Now what's going on? What do you want? We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u476	I'm sorry, Mr. Venizelos said so, Mr. Loverdo. He said quite clearly: 'We do not vote out'. So you're voting 'em now. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, these Greek people are seeing them. In March 2015 you passed the humanitarian crisis bill, it was a national effort. But today this draft law, which is the continuation of that draft resolution on the humanitarian crisis, is not going to be passed...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u477	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u478	...in the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u479	If there's no beginning, what can we vote for?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u480	Ladies and gentlemen, opposition is unfortunately being exposed. It is also presented by another important fact, which today saw the light of publicity. People say the fish stinks from the head. Official documents were published today in a newspaper, correspondence from the Consul General of Greece in Frankfurt with the Deputy Minister of Finance, which shows the refusal of the government, by the Prime Minister's mouth, to cooperate on the well-known issue of tax evasion. I think the case is now going through the search for responsibility. We cannot ask citizens for sacrifices when we diligently take care to protect tax-raisers. Besides, why would we have such a requirement when the man who had the order of negotiation in 2012-2013 was on the first names of the Lagard list? The Greek people need to know that both the Lagard list and the Boyarns list were and remain the responsibility of the Samara and Venizelos government. What one said, what another said in interviews, no matter what. The documents published today are likely to lay down criminal responsibilities. This government, ladies and gentlemen, since the September elections has told the truth. A difficult agreement was passed and tried to salvage, correct forty years of disease. Legislation has been tabled which serves transparency and democracy. Who questions today's bill, his articles? Most will say "YEI". Who doubts the Public Administration bill? Still, you're swinging our fingers and telling us it doesn't help much people in this bill. It helps very few. It doesn't have much social impact. What are you waiting for? In a year to heal pathogens and mistakes forty years? You should know that we have told the Greek people the truth. And we have above all the patriotic identity, as the Prime Minister said today. I think the opposition parties have been exposed. We are not asking for the difficult ones to be voted on, but we are asking for the easy ones. And I would remind you that in March 2015, similar provisions that you, today, said "OH", said "HAH". For what? You are today exposed to the Greek people and not the government. The government is doomed only to one thing: to succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u481	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u482	Madam President, may I ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u483	Who? This is not the case. Anyway, I'm giving you the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u484	This House is struggling and there is no room for other political debates. It's happened today. However, there is a parliamentary amendment that has been accepted. They are from four Members of the majority. I want to do a parentheses here. Our amendments were not accepted, even when they were concerned with issues that we are voting on in the draft law, such as the cooperation of the municipalities in incineration. The government looks at itself, looks at the majority of it. Good. However, four colleagues - two of whom are the rapporteur for the majority of SYRIZA and the parliamentary representative, Mrs Jufi and Mr Igoumenidis - tabled an amendment that the government accepted and to which the government also made a legislative improvement. It refers to the issues of employment relationships, which exist for feeding and storage of hospitals, but also to cases where these activities are covered by companies. And colleagues have said that anyone who is active or active in this field can renew their activities. When it comes to the past, it is understandable for some cases that have not been covered and that people must be paid. When it comes to the future - and it also concerns companies - can you vote, ladies and gentlemen, for these procedures to be done without contest? The two colleagues, since the Minister for Legislative Improvement is not here, if they can, can clarify exactly what they mean by the amendment. Because if he means what we read, Madam President, there is a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u485	I want to reply, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u486	Here, Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u487	On behalf of the government, I should like to answer two questions. First, I'll answer Mr. Carras. Mr Spirtz has informed me that what we are doing today is a formal process, which the European Commission requires. It has been passed by the Court of Auditors, it has been voted before. So what you're saying is not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u488	He didn't bring it to us. Prove it to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u489	Yeah, it's all deposited. Secondly, the amendment you said, Mr Colleague, concerning individual contracts, if I understood it correctly...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u490	If they were individual and only for the past, it is understandable. But Mr. Xanthos intervened and said they were companies too. That's why I asked for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u491	It's not for companies. It is this: Since last May, in the bill that Mr Katrugalos had downloaded, the first signal was that hospitals, cleanliness contracts had been made with cleanliness workshops which had expired - and that, in order to enable hospitals to continue to clean up - individual work contracts with staff employed at the time or employed before in this area. We want to throw these workshops out of the way. I'm saying it very clearly. In fact, we are, in consultation with the Court of Auditors and with its President, redrafting the provision contained in the bill so that the Commissioners can approve the warrants. There are many areas of the country - I will mention some that are currently coming to my mind, Agios Nikolaos, Cyclades, Preveza, Drama - which has become this. And yet, for an explanation, because it does not include health workers - it is a broader provision adopted by Mr Katrugalos - that did not approve of the warrants. We do not want - and we do not hide it - the EUR 110 million that we spend the year, Mr Colleague, on the cleanliness of hospitals. It's so much! Either the Agia Sophia or the Sanctuary of Sunday - my memory laughs - one of the two has 100,000 euros sanitary material and 1.500,000 euros cleanliness. Can you arrest it? We know and see from these conventions that have taken place in various hospitals that the cost falls to half or less. And people are getting better paid and on the basis of their labour contributions and costs are falling. That is what we are doing with this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u492	And in the future?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u493	And for the future we can make contracts. And in others where the contracts that have been concluded are over, we can also do in the future. Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u494	Not now, last minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u495	You say 'without a competition'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u496	Listen to me, we want to leave - understand it - from the process of assigning workshops in general and vaguely to the cleanliness of hospitals. We want this mid-term, and because the hospitals must be able to clean up - because this is what we want to support through social cooperatives, from the public sector, from the public sector - for workers working under a contract of work with the hospital without the intermediate. And that's what we do. It's already happened. It's gonna be in other things that's over. It's making us very costly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u497	Mr. Polakis, you're understandable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u498	Madam President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u499	Mr. Loverdos, we can only discuss this in three. The debate on the principle of the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Health is closed: 'Measures to speed up governmental work and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u500	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u501	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u502	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u503	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u504	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u505	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u506	The Ministry of Health's draft law therefore: ‘Measures to speed up the government's work and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u507	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u508	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u509	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u510	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u511	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u512	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u513	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u514	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u515	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u516	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u517	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u518	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u519	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u520	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u521	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u522	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u523	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u524	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u525	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u526	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u527	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u528	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u529	Present
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u530	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u531	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u532	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u533	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u534	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u535	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u536	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u537	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u538	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u539	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u540	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u541	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u542	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u543	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u544	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u546	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u547	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u548	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u549	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u550	Article 10 was therefore unanimously accepted. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u551	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u552	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u553	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u555	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u556	Article 13 was therefore unanimously accepted. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u557	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u558	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u559	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u560	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u561	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u562	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u563	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u564	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u565	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u566	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u567	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u568	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u569	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u570	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 18 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u571	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u572	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u573	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u574	Article 18 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u575	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u576	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u577	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u578	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u579	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u580	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u581	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u582	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u583	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u584	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u585	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u586	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u587	Article 22 has therefore been accepted as it has unanimously been. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u588	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u589	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u590	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u591	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u592	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u593	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u594	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u595	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u596	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u597	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u598	Article 24 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u599	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u600	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u601	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u603	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u604	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u605	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 26 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u606	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u607	Article 26 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u608	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u609	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u610	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u611	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u612	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 28 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u613	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u614	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u615	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u616	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u617	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u618	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u619	Article 28 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept Rule 29, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u620	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u621	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u622	Article 29 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u623	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u624	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u626	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u627	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u628	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u629	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u630	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u631	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u632	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u633	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u634	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u636	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u637	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u638	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u639	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 33 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u640	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u641	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u642	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u643	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u644	Article 33 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u645	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u646	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u648	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u649	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u650	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u651	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u652	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u653	Article 35 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u654	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u655	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u656	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u657	Article 36 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u658	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u659	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 38 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u660	Article 38 was therefore approved, as amended by the Minister, acting unanimously. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u661	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u662	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u663	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u664	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 40 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u665	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u666	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u667	Article 40 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 41 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u668	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u669	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u670	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u671	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u672	Article 41 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 42 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u673	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u674	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u675	Article 42 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u676	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u677	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u678	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u679	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u680	Article 44 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u681	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as it has been unanimously. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u682	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u683	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u684	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u685	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u686	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u687	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u688	Article 47 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u689	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u690	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u691	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u692	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u693	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u694	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u695	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u696	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u697	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u698	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u699	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u700	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u701	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u702	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u703	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u704	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u705	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u706	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u707	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u708	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u709	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u710	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u711	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u712	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u713	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u714	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u715	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u716	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u717	Article 54 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u718	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u719	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u720	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u722	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u723	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u724	Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u725	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u726	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u727	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u728	Article 57 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u729	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u730	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u731	Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u732	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u733	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u734	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u735	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u736	Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 60 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u737	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u738	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u739	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u740	Article 60 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 61 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u741	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u742	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u743	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u744	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u745	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u746	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u747	Article 61 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u748	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u749	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u750	Article 62 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 63 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u751	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u752	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u753	Article 63 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 64 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u754	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u755	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u756	Article 64 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 65 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u757	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u758	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u759	Article 65 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 66 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u760	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u761	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u762	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u763	Article 66 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 67 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u764	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u765	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u766	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u767	Article 67 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 68 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u768	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u769	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u770	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u771	Article 68 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 69 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u772	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u773	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u774	Article 69 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 70 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u775	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u776	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u777	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u778	Article 70 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 71 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u779	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u780	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u781	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u782	Article 71 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 72 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u783	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u784	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u785	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u786	Article 72 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 73 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u787	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u788	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u789	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u790	Article 73 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 74 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u791	Article 74 has therefore been accepted as unanimously. Will Rule 75 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u792	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u793	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u794	Article 75 has therefore been accepted as majority. Articles 76 and 77 shall be withdrawn and the rest shall be renumbered. Does the House accept the new Rule 76, old 78, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u795	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u796	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u797	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u798	Article 76 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does the House accept the new Rule 77, old 79, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u799	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u800	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u801	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u802	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u803	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u804	Article 77 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 78, old 80, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u805	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u806	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u807	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u808	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u809	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u810	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u811	Article 78 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 79, old 81, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u812	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u813	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u814	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u815	Article 79 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept the new Article 80, old 82, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u816	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u817	Article 80 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does the House accept the new Rule 81, old 83, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u818	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u819	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u820	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u821	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u822	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u823	Article 81 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does the House accept the new Rule 82, old 84, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u824	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u825	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u827	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u828	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u829	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u830	Article 82 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does the House agree to the new Article 83, old Article 85, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u831	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u832	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u833	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u834	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u835	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u836	Article 83 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House agree to the new Article 84, old Article 86, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u837	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u838	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u839	Article 84 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept the new Article 85, old 87, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u840	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u841	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u842	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u843	Article 85 was therefore accepted as majority. Does the House accept the new Article 86, old 88, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u844	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u845	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u846	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u847	Article 86 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Article 87, old 89, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u848	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u849	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u850	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u851	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u852	Article 87 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does the House accept the new Article 88, old 90, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u853	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u854	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u855	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u856	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u857	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u858	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u859	Article 88 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept the new Article 89, old 91, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u860	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u861	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u862	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u863	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u864	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u865	Article 89 has therefore been accepted as majority. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House organises and operates 50 members of the Cultural Centre for Workers. We welcome you to Parliament and let you know that the vote is now taking place with representatives of the parties. That's why you don't see many Members. [[Applause from all sides]] We are entering the vote on the amendments. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 214 and a special number 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u866	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u867	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u868	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u869	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u870	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u871	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u872	The amendment, under general number 214 and special 34, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 216 and a special number 36 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u873	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u874	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u875	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u876	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u877	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u878	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u879	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 216 and a special 36 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 226 and a special number 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u880	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u881	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u882	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u883	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 226 and a special 38 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 235 and a special number 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u884	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u885	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u886	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u887	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u888	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 235 and a special 42 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 240 and a special number 46 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u889	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u890	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u891	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u892	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u893	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u894	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 240 and a special 46 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 243 and a special number 47 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u895	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u896	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u897	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u898	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u899	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u900	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u901	The amendment, by a general number 243 and a special 47, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 244 and a special number 48 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u902	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u903	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u904	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u905	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u906	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u907	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u908	The amendment, by a general number 244 and a special 48, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 196 and a special number 16, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u909	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u910	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u911	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u912	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u913	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u914	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u915	The amendment with a general number of 196 and a special 16 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 198 and a special 18, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u916	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u917	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u918	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u919	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u920	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u921	Therefore, Amendment No 198, and a special 18, as amended by the Minister, was accepted by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 211 and a special number 31 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u922	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u923	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u924	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 211 and a special 31 was accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 54. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number of 215 and a special number of 35, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u925	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u926	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u927	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u928	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u929	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u930	Therefore, Amendment No 215, and Amendment No 35, was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 238 and a special number 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u931	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u932	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u933	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u934	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u935	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u936	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u937	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 238 and a special 45 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 249 and a special number 51 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u938	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u939	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u940	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u941	Therefore, Amendment No 249, and Amendment No 51, was accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 53. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u942	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u943	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u944	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u945	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. The Ministry of Health's draft law therefore: ‘Measures to speed up the government's work and other provisions’ were accepted in principle and on articles. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u946	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u947	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u948	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u949	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u950	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u951	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Ministry of Health bill: ‘Measures to speed up the government's work and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, Articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u952	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u953	The House granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-20-S1-commons.u954	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.29' the sitting on Monday, February 22, 2016, at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, is closed: the debate on the item number 11/7/3-12-2015 question for Members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, on the need and procedure for the recapitalisation of credit institutions.
