ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and vote on the principle, articles, amendment and the whole draft law: "Urgent arrangements of the Ministries of Finance, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Social Security and Social Solidarity for the implementation of the Agreement on budgetary objectives and structural reforms". I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs, the Standing Committee on Production and Trade and the Standing Committee on Social Affairs present their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance "Urgent arrangements of the Ministries of Finance, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Social Security and Social Solidarity for the implementation of the Agreement on budgetary objectives and structural reforms". The above draft law was identified by the Government as urgent and the committees accepted by a majority as urgent, in accordance with Rule 110 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 22 September 2016 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, on the articles and on the amendment. At this point I would like to suggest that if a request for a roll-call vote is to be tabled, as we heard yesterday that the JRC had declared, it is important that it should be tabled as quickly as possible so that the vote begins at 21.00 p.m. SYRIZA's rapporteur has the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u2	Madam President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u3	Do you want anything, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u4	Madam President, we know very well that the majority decided on the procedure and that will be the procedure. After all, in the Conference of Presidents, the majority have clarified what its disposal is for this draft law. However, because we have also expressed our disagreement there and also to the committees, the Democratic Reconciliation would like to repeat it before you enter the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u5	But there's no procedure for this emergency.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u6	There's the possibility from the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u7	No, there's no...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u8	....................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u9	We cannot, Mr Loverdo, again discuss things that have been decided. Please don't consume time...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u10	Look, Madam President, you have interrupted me. I'd be done. Two phrases I want to say. The Democratic Reconciliation has argued that there is at least no urgent reason, at least for the first article. Ladies and gentlemen, the majority of you who accepted this procedure and accept it, as it seems, and here, Article 1 contains no prerequisites for which there is urgency. Article 1 includes the mockery of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, when heavy legislation such as insurance is passed, to make supposedly favourable policies for groups that are entitled to it, such as hoteliers with rooms up to ten beds or young doctors, lawyers, engineers, young workers, and then to vote for them. It is not a prerequisite, Madam President, that. It's an organized plan. At least Article 1 should enter into a normal legislative procedure. That is the view of the Democratic Alliance. We disagree with the majority procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u11	Madam President, I would like the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u12	You have the floor, Mr Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u13	In spite of our disagreements on the urgency, the articles and content of the bill, we would like to know whether, in the process of completing the bill, there is an intention for the government to bring any amendments relating to other matters or this bill. We want to know that from now on, so that we can organise the debate better and prepare ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u14	Does one of the main ministers want to take the floor to answer? Mr. Chakalotos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u15	I have nothing to add to what I said in committee. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That is the first part of the question. There is this issue with the EMSMAR, which may or may be submitted today - a small one - or in the bill I told you, which will be the last, for the PSC, which will go on Tuesday or Thursday. That is what I said to you in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u16	Madam President, I would like the floor for thirty seconds on an issue that has arisen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u17	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u18	If an urgent or urgent matter has been raised, I think that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u19	Emergency, we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u20	Urgent, at least. I therefore think that the last two articles on OSE regulations, 'TRAINOSE', should be withdrawn and come together with the convention that ratifys the sale of 'TRAINOSE' and see them in a single way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Risulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u22	We believe that the debate on the urgency procedure has been exhausted in committee and that it has also been resolved in the Conference of Presidents. The necessary clarifications have been given by the Ministers, so we think that the procedure should continue as decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u23	So, ladies and gentlemen, do you agree with the procedure for the debate, as has been decided?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u24	The House therefore voted by a majority. SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Risulis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Madam President. The draft law is to be passed in plenary: "Urgent arrangements of the Ministry of Finance, the Environment and Energy, Infrastructure, Transport and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity for the implementation of the Financial Objectives and Structural Reform Agreement. During the debate on the committees, unfortunately most of the sides of the opposition, and in particular from PASOK and New Democracy, an effort was made to mislead those who are following the debate on the substance of two structural regulations: firstly, to subject the public holding company to the second group of public enterprises, saying that the government is privatising these enterprises, after passing on to the jurisdiction of creditors. Regardless of what the Minister of Finance has said months ago about how the new fund is structured, which should have been understood by everyone, the message they want to pass mainly on to the world is that SYRIZA is the same and has joined the neoliberal logic of privatisation. Secondly, the regulation on the introduction of a uniform rate of 6.95% for health care for all. I will have the opportunity to make some comments after the end of the presentation of the draft law on this criticism that we have accepted. The law is the last stage in adopting the prerequisites for disbursing the EUR 2.8 billion instalment. With the closure of the prerequisites and the disbursement of 2.8 billion 1.7 billion will go to outstanding public debts to third parties. This amount is crucial in a market with major liquidity problems. It will give thousands of businesses, suppliers and workers who have retired and are waiting for the single and many others. The provisions relating to the Ministry of Labour and Social Security include legislative improvements adapting the level of the discount in the event of the acquisition of years of insurance. Instead of a 15% discount on the total amount, as originally foreseen, a 2% discount is now foreseen for each redemption year. It is foreseen that the owners of tourist accommodation of six to ten beds will be subject to their insurance scheme in the category of insured persons referred to in Article 39 and not to Article 40 of Law No4387/2016. In addition, paragraphs 4 to 7 introduce a uniform rate of insurance contributions for health care for the purpose of homogenising the amount of those insurance contributions for all insured persons irrespective of the type of their professional activity. In the provisions relating to the Ministry of Finance, in Article 2, a second group of public undertakings will be transferred to the SGEI, a public holding company, and listed in Annex V to the same law. By subjecting public enterprises to the ETS and the timescale of integration ensures the public nature of the agencies by exploiting them. It avoids the divestment pressure by joining the WIDD, a practice of the previous governments, who consented to a process of a fast-track divestment of public property, without ensuring the public interest and the needs of society. I come under the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. With regard to the reorganisation of the electricity market, the harmonisation of Greek with European reality and the more efficient operation of the electricity market in the country is ensured. This bill best balances the cost-benefit level for society by achieving a reduction in the cost of energy for Greek consumers, giving incentives and impetus to the Greek industry, and also achieves the integration of the electricity market in Greece with the European Union's markets. The technological and legal integration of the European electricity market with Greek will ensure cheaper energy for the benefit of the country, making it easier to import and export electricity. Everything is done in a framework of transparency and efficiency. Compliance with the above objectives creates integrated trading mechanisms enabling providers and wholesale suppliers of electricity to negotiate wholesale energy products with the physical delivery of the goods, i.e. energy. The new law meets the following general market categories in the domestic electricity market: wholesale market for forward products and the market for bilateral contracts, the day-to-day market, the intraday market and the balancing market. In the course of trade or trade agreements, the physical delivery of the good is also necessary, which ensures that the relevant exchanges do not take the character of intangible trade, but of transactions in which the physical object is delivered in the time determined by the transaction. By switching to the new way of operating the market, EMO is defined as a manager of the wholesale market for forward products. At the same time it also takes on the important role of the market operator of the next day and the intraday electricity market. The responsibilities of the Regulatory Authority for Energy are enriched in order to ensure its role, both in organising the domestic electricity market and after its entry into force. The RAE will maintain advisory and decisive responsibilities. IPTO will take over the role of the balancing market operator, i.e. a similar role to the one it currently has, in the existing way of operating the market. The UNECE also becomes competent in the new framework with a national monopoly to cover, clear and settle transactions by market participants on the next day and on the intraday market. The tasks of the Greek electricity transmission system operator shall be to exploit, maintain and develop the transmission system in order to ensure the supply of electricity to the country in a sufficient, safe, efficient and reliable manner. The essence of the new framework for the reorganisation of the electricity market is that it achieves more efficient operation in the wholesale electricity market, while improving the costs of the Greek consumer by increasing the competition of the participants. The competitiveness of Greek companies is expected to be improved, as in the long term it will reduce their production costs by moving to cheaper electricity. The benefit to the ordinary consumer and the political appeal are the lower energy prices and the country's supply to a stable and transparent regime. The market is regulated by rules and the operating framework of each public authority that will supervise the operation of the operators for the best result is specified. The final provisions of the draft law in Articles 18 and 20 deal with the provisions of the Ministry of Transport and Networks, relate to the framework of the restructuring of the railway system and regulate issues relating to the management of rolling stock rents by the contract for the rental of rolling stock between OSE and TRAINOSE, in which the Greek State has been involved by GAIAOSE, for the purpose of implementing the management programme. In this context, ‘GAOSE’ concludes with ‘TRAINOSE’ a lease contract of up to 10 years for rolling stock necessary to meet the operational needs of ‘TRAINOSE’. The contract provides that TRAINOSE will carry out the work of extensive maintenance of rolling stock which it leases at the time of its entry into force for its return to the appropriate operating situation and that these costs are offset by due rents. GIAOSE collects, on behalf of the Greek State, the rent for the use of the rolling stock provided for in the contract for the lease of rolling stock between OSE and TRAINOSE, to which the Greek State has been involved. Thus, there is a financial benefit for the Greek State and the framework for restructuring the management of the railway network of the country is completed, ensuring the public interest. With the adoption of this bill, the disbursement of some 11 billion with the fulfilment of seven prerequisites, which was made with the partners, but also after a serious negotiation, is completed. The disbursement of 2.8 billion will contribute to the stabilisation of the Greek economy and its development prospects in order to get out of the crisis. The Government of SYRIZA - ANEL - Oblogues throughout the negotiation went forth with the public interest and the fairness of the Greek people. Because this is essentially the criticism the government is accepting, I would like to mention a few things about this criticism, as some times in the committee have been overtaken by some of the limits of political controversy. First of all, I would like to start with Mr Maniotis, who has referred to once again - and I do not know why they are constantly reintroducing this either in PASOK or in New Democracy - in what they voted in June 1915. The New Democracy, we know, has voted for the European Union's stay, we have made this clear. The Democratic Compact PASOK - DIMAR voted for the loan contract, only for the loan contract, to obtain the money for the needs of the Greek state. Of course, the loan contract also has an agreement from the back, a number of issues that had to be implemented by the Greek side, to vote on them. A loan contract with only money, without obligations, does not exist. Now I am going to make a bad review: this now comes from the old ones, it is an old habit that is not forgotten, that we take credit without any obligation and consume it in public life, as we want, by creating deficits and debts of billions. 'This is what we signed', says, 'the loan contract only, to get money'. He also said that the new fund is controlled by creditors and will divest the public property. Where does that come from? I said it at the introduction of my speech, Mr Manatis. Come here after you talk, tell us the composition of the new fund, what role does the state have, what role does the Treasury have in this process, how members are appointed and where it turns out that creditors control everything there. The other thing Mr Maniotis said - and here is the nice thing - about the changes we made to 6.95% - what we got back - on the contributions is: 'With these and what the government does, young people are leaving abroad'. So, farmers and free professionals are now leaving abroad? Is that why young people are leaving abroad? No, Mr Maniotis, you have to tell us: that is why they have left or because of the policies - we are coming back to the same - that have been implemented, that is, the growth of public debt, the deindustrialisation and the productive model you have not had? Why did your colleague yesterday ask us here: 'What is the productive model you have?' What was yours? The stock market? Gambling? The hundreds of billions of debt? I am not talking about the complexity, which has been developed through this process, which is obviously not the responsibility of everyone separately, but the policies that have been implemented are overall responsible. Mr Varvitsiotis, in an effort launched by Adonis Georgiadis, the Vice-President of the New Democracy, in his previous speech, tried to identify the Government with the New Democracy, that they are doing so more well, that we have now entered a process of liberalism or neoliberalism, privatising everything, and there is no reason for SYRIZA to be here, so it is time for them to go away, for them to come to do this. He also said a great deal of talk claiming that we mentioned it. He said: you said to us and thought we were "sold" when we did similar things. Our difference with New Democracy, Mr Varvitsiotis, is not that we regard you as sold, is that you join with the most extremely aggressive of the public interest, not because you are in favour of privatization, as you say, but because you are enemies of the social state, public health and public education. These are our differences, and thankfully there is the SYRIZA Government, which reorganises public education and public health, which you were prepared to deliver. Also, the pressures that are being exerted - and you know it very well - are far greater than agreements and often exceed them. What we are, of course, saying 'pressures to change agreed' by you is a matching of views, which is why we are accused of being late in the negotiations. Obviously with the extremist voices of lenders, the International Monetary Fund, we do not identify ourselves, which is why we are delaying the negotiations. You would have solved this, you'd have finished it. First of all, let me say something about Mr. Adonni Georgiadis and I will end with this. Mr Adonis Georgiadis must know - it is not here, it is not important - that, as far as the hybrid positions he does and out of microphone are concerned - yesterday he was really swearing, and I am referring not only to what has been heard - we may be upset at some time, but we are not taking them seriously. The same hybrid positions he has unleashed from this Step a few years ago against New Democracy, in which he is Vice-President today. Youtube's videos are already up and show him accusing you that you and PASOK have destroyed the country. Today, of course, he blames SYRIZA. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I don't know what he's gonna do if he goes elsewhere, who's gonna blame. However, he blamed you with the same words. Look at the videos. You accused SYRIZA of having an affair when all your country's political life-style executives appear intertwined, from government to party advisers, your leaders, or also relatives. I am not going to start numbering now. Shall I start with the self-government I'm saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u26	Let's go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u27	Shall I get started? Let me start from Western Macedonia and the recent scandal - why did I say about Government - or about the other person who went to jail for the tens of millions in Thessaloniki? Wasn't the former Mayor of Thessaloniki? Any interplanetary stone raised up a couple of years now is one of your officers underneath. How do you do it? [[Noise in the Chamber]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. We do not always achieve our goals, but we are here to defend values against a system of interdependence that has troubled the country for decades and has been trying with nails and teeth to maintain the lawlessness it has imposed on public life for years. Through these difficulties we will be able to bring society up, bring fair growth, always with our eyes to the weak and the victims of the humanitarian crisis created by austerity policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u28	Mr Varvitsiotis has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I can only begin with the last words of the majority rapporteur. Unfortunately, it does. You know, at SYRIZA you're not without scandals. In the recent period, within the short time you say you are in power, we have discovered Ministers for Forgetful millions, who forget to put them in their "bottoms", ministers who retrospectively transfer companies, as they did not have to. We had until yesterday's Canalarch candidate, who had bought the Prime Minister's father's construction company, and who is also the best man of many Ministers. We had the complaints made by Mr Buddouris, your executive - you chose him - for the non-transparent management of the funds relating to immigration. Of course, there is the establishment of the new 'national contractor', Mr Kalogritsa, with brave funding from the Attica Bank over the past period. And that's the beginning. Let me tell you. I do not believe in collective responsibility, and I do not classify political areas with the convenience of you, but I attach individual responsibilities. So be much more careful when you refer to a political area which, over all these years, has fought for transparency has also given self-clearances and has moved forward and is today the first political force in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, with this populism, you will know that you will have the end of others who have plundered and promised like you. For this populism, we no longer blame you. All of Europe blames you. He will go to the Eurogroup tomorrow, the Minister will ask for the money and will be confronted with the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Dombrovskis, who said that the populism of the SYRIZA is the one leading to the extension of the deep austerity and Greece is taking steps that it would not have to take if it had not blocked the reform programme of the previous government. That reality, whatever you do, you can't change it. He will face Mr Moscovici and Mr Diaselblum, who have so far been very good friends and supporters of the government's effort, but every day there are bells for the delay. You do not understand that the delay in the implementation of the pledges poses a problem when we proved to you yesterday that your negotiation did not bring anything good. You have been negotiating so long for the public fund, for the excess, for which companies will or will not be subject. They all existed, the superstition has superstition, superstition. You haven't saved anything from public property, and we don't understand why you've wasted so much time at the time. If the fund is as good as you say and will make use of public property, then you should have put all companies in the first place and not delayed. But we heard a reassurance yesterday from Mr Tsakaloto, provocative and inconsistent. He said that "as long as I am Minister, the water will not be privatized". What have you voted for the fund? What have you voted for, you know? Don't you know what you've voted for? Have a look at what you've voted for. What is the method of exploiting the fund's assets? It's Mr.4389 of May. "In order to make the recovery - the exploitation is judged by the fund board and its supervisory board, and this is the appropriate way, not by the Treasury - to privatise assets, the fund can, for example, sell, transfer any assets, injurious rights with a contribution of the latter to public limited companies. They may lease their assets and so on.’
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u30	Calm down, ladies and gentlemen! Where does it exclude the sale? Where does it exclude the sale to them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u31	Does he say the Minister has to agree or doesn't he say? You're asking, and I want to answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u32	You'll answer when your time comes, Mr. Chakaloto. You'll answer when your time comes! I will tell you this: why is the Minister not in control?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u33	He's got it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u34	He told us he's in control because he approves the company's investment plan. However, the company's investment plan approved by the Minister in Article 190(2a) of the law I mentioned to you approves the company's strategic plan and investment plan with the exception of the company. What companies currently have at its disposal between the other assets? He's already published them. Mr. Hatzidakis also told you about the May plan, and today the website of the website of TIAD has it. Get into the website of HIDED to see which companies it has to make use of. He has H.D. and H.D.H.I.E.L.D.! You feed the natives' hay, don't you think? You think you're going to go on with the lies and the nice lines that no one believes anymore, give assurances? Because yesterday we heard crazy things. We heard Mr. Spirtzi say that only Jesus Christ would take over the indebted companies. He presented us with the "CITIZENS S.A.", which are the schools, the construction of hospitals, the construction of the courts and prisons of the country, as a highly indebted company. Is the same for the EEAS, which has 280 million in its fund and is it profitable? If I remember a lasting political pressure, there was by his friend Mr. Tsipras, his late companion, Mr. Holland, for the acquisition or participation of French companies of interest in what you said 'water is good and not sold'. "The water is good and not sold"! Four times he called Mr. Tsipras of the U.S.H.S.A. to give assurances that he would not touch it. Today you and this company for which you have given all these assurances you are transferring to the fund. What fund? The fund which is not in Parliament's control. Because the GOI was in absolute control of both the Ministry of Finance and the Parliament. I'll remind you, because I'm saying he's out of control of the House. The investment project doesn't pass through the House. The Minister of Finance will approve. We said there was no exception to the CFD and the CFD. You don't approve of that. These operate autonomously, autonomously. There is no possibility for the Minister for Finance to check, with what Mr Tsakalotos has voted on, the investment project, the TEAD and the HFS. However, it does not pass through the House, and for each Court we are checking who will take over it. It passes through the Committee of the Regions. The CV is coming, a hearing is being held, and Members are looking to find out if there are shadows in any personality or anything else, those who run a CVO. Those who run the fund, the supervisory committee, go through the House? Oh, no. He's not going through the control of the House. And because I asked if I've read Mrs. Haritou's CV, I would say, Minister, that you ask her a question on my behalf. I haven't read it because you haven't announced it, you haven't given it to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u35	He didn't stop you from commenting on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u36	I haven't seen it in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u37	So you're commenting without knowledge.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u38	Yes, yes! Wait, Minister. Because your colleague, Mr Stathakis, when she wanted to hurt Mrs Keramos, brought a provision that prevented her spouses from being in the Competition Committee from being in photographic - even though her husband had been chosen as a member of the Competition Committee before she was elected as a Member. Yesterday you came and told us feminism and that we are criminalizing family relations. I would like to ask her one question: would she go to testify as a witness to Hercules Kostaris, the killer of Paul Bakoyannis, as her husband went? That is the question I would like to ask her. In this question, only the same one can answer, not you. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that your failure at all levels seems to have been unsuccessful this year to catch up with the objective which you yourself have set for privatizations. A target has been set for 2.5 billion this year. It is not about the difficult and problematic, such as the EHSD and the EHSD, the politically sensitive ones such as the Greek one you voted on. However, it is about the marinas - for which you have done nothing - which concerns the PPP, it is about the property held by the GOI for which all the sales contests, the urban real estate and the urban property of the state have ceased - which is of no importance! - as well as 30% of "Eleftherios Venizelos" and, of course, the EGF process, which was finally going for 2017, and should have been completed since 2015. This shows your inability to manage the bet of the great policy called privatizations and attraction of investment in the country. A huge investment was designed to make Emir of Qatar in Greece and newspaper news brings him indicted from all beginning. The 2 billion investment he would like to make in the Ionian not only is stuck, but it seems that after the bureaucratic difficulties he has stirred stitches and has chosen other investment destinations. I come to the last, because I heard amazing things yesterday in the committee and as far as the insurance arrangements are concerned. You should tell us a 'I'm sorry, we didn't do that', the very least Mr. Tsipras promised when he met the young scientists, the young farmers in February last year. He said we'd make an insurance cut and sewn into your own measures, look at the young people. He was photographing with them, showing them his father's hug. This only provision you have brought to young people concerns a reduced insurance contribution in the first five years of their working life. I have heard Mr Katrugalo too many times advertising it on all channels and he has not had the courage to come to committee. I hope he has the courage to tell us today and not to let Mr Petropoulos, who had previously been distinguished as a lawyer - a distinguished lawyer himself - fights any insurance reform with thousands of legal means by adopting all the extreme demands of all the social classes and bodies, which he blames us on. So he should come and tell us why this change. Is this 75 million-dollar gap so important that it wants to cover? We believe that you are retreating on all fronts and, unfortunately, in recent years you have lost the ball. Unfortunately you haven't lost the ball for the country. You've lost the ball when it comes to managing power. You've opened all possible fronts. You have created enemies throughout society and you have a very great difficulty in governing. This difficulty in governance, which will be a permanent sign of your policy for the next time, seems not only will SYRIZA pay it, the Greek people will also pay it. Because as long as you are unable to draw up a specific plan, serve it, to get the country out of the crisis and lose yourself in the policy of managing individual issues, from religious to the channels, and all your efforts will be halted in a game of impression, unfortunately, the economy will go back, decisions to be made will not be taken. The drag which the country feels and the economy will continue and that is even more harmful. That is why we will not only vote against this bill, but we will find ourselves in front of you all the next time parliamentarians not in the activist ways you have done. Why did you tell us that the Opposition does not agree, but you did not see us sitting in front of the strikers' padlocks, you did not see us sitting on the appeals, you did not see us holding the black flags, we did not bring banners down into Parliament's Chamber, as you did. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] We with decent parliamentary control and strong reason will degrade you. We will degrade you to the conscience of the Greeks, reveal your lies and, of course, we will vote against your Government at every opportunity that we are given. This is how we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u39	Mr Karakostas also has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u40	Another urgent draft law, which you bring without substantial planning and dialogue, since it comes according to the orders of the lenders, those who once both SYRIZA and ANEL once described as loan sharks. In fact, this is a continuation of what has already been voted on with earlier memorandums and earlier draft laws with the latest one in May 2016, the multi-brand plan with the prerequisites for the closure of the first evaluation. All that usually came with the urgency and urgency. This draft law, in essence, formalises the sale of the CECs, that is to say, their concession to the foreign operator. The six IKOs, which are transferred automatically and without consideration to the holding fund of deprivation with this multi-branded scheme, are EKOs, EKOs, "KITIRIAN INFRASTRUCES S.A.", ELVO, "ATITIC MERO S.A." and PPC, i.e. 34% of PPC, as the remaining 17% are controlled by the TSE. It was preceded last May by the first phase of the grant of the new surplus fund by the transfer of the first six ECHOs, including the OAS. Despite the krone of the government that the Olympic Stage cannot be sold, this provision has been hidden. The remaining five public participations that passed on to the holding fund in May, in order to close the first evaluation of the third memorandum, were those in the transport operators of Athens, the OSE and the ELTA. This draft law abolishes all the reduced rates, the discounts applicable to new scientists, either doctors, engineers, lawyers, who had the advantage of the first five years in respect of contributions to the EEAS. Thanks to this, they gradually changed the rate of 6.9% of the contribution in 2019. Now they're going directly to 6.9% from 1-1-2017. Let us remember that in the case of lawyers and engineers, who had gone on to many months' strikes and mobilizations, this will literally mean their professional extinction. Micro-hotel operators, tourist professionals with small tourist farms, who are not at the same time farmers and are active in areas less than two thousand inhabitants, are part of the OSCE and should pay from 1-1-2017 20% of their reported income and not 14% as is the case for those in OGA. What does the government do this way? It manages to affect tourism and the Greek countryside. With what, then, does the present government give the power and water to international loan sharks? Who's gonna control what's going on with water and electricity? However, not the public once these agencies have been in a company which does not belong to the public. Especially as far as water is concerned, we have the following comments to make: in May 2014, the Council of State had the right of the inhabitants of Athens who had recourse to it and cancelled the privatisation of 51% of EKDAP - by extension of the respective Thessaloniki agency, EYATH - by obliging TIADED to return part of its shares to the Greek State. The reasoning of the decision stated that, inter alia, the actual conversion of the public undertaking into a profit-based private undertaking makes it uncertain to follow-up, on its part, the provision of affordable services of public utility and indeed of high quality, which is not fully guaranteed by State supervision. The following was also pointed out: the public undertaking is to be identified in the case of the alienation of the Greek State by control of the public limited company by means of equity capital, i.e. its alienation from that percentage of the shares guaranteed by ownership rights. Among the public undertakings that are granted are ELVO. Let us remind you here that ELVO has been in liquidation since 2014 and is supposed to be the goal of its rescue. However, while it is in this regime, you are also selling it out and without having a plan on the issues of ELVO, which is about the Armed Forces. By giving ELVO, you are also giving issues which, of course, are related to the country's defence. It has been heard from time to time that all this is done in order for the ECJ to have professional administration and to avoid deficits. Of course, no one disagrees or will disagree with that. But this is not achieved by taking the TECs and selling them to foreigners. This is done by proper management, cost savings and national planning, which you do not have, as of course not all the post-government governments did. With the appointments of the "parent", malpractices and all the like, all of them are not made, and so the ECHO has reached their present point. You are supposed to try to reorganise the Greek electricity market. In what way? With a framework of provisions which are in all likelihood, with the definition of new companies and bodies? We read various terms and interpretations. Electricity market operator, Greek electricity transmission system, intraday market, service market etc. What's all this in practice? In practice, it is only the sale of energy, the sale of it to creditors. You have proved to be the most obedient servants of international loan sharks and the monumental possession that has been imposed on our homeland. At this point I would like to highlight the comicotragic of the whole process of discussing the draft law, culminating in yesterday's hearing of the extra-parliamentary bodies in the relevant committees. There was no real dialogue. The bodies affected by this bill were invited for 11.00' and 12.00' in order to submit their positions to committees for 14.00' time. Despite the assurances of the Ministers and their desperate attempt to convince them of the beneficialness and the law of the provisions, the vast majority of the institutions have been opposed to governmental modalities. The most tragic and outrageous of the case is that you sell out the public property and lead to the impoverishment of even more Greeks, with the sole aim of collecting EUR 2.8 billion. In other words, you have in the past been traders of hope and you have become managers of the deportation and impoverishment of the Greeks. On this occasion, I would like to point out this: since 1974, generations of state-owned leftists have been groomed with a slogan: 'one, two, three, many Polytechnics'. It is now necessary to update the motto. So the next generations of left-wing generations will henceforth be nurtured in the following slogan: 'one, two, three, a lot of overfunds'. Golden Dawn, the only force of national resistance in the memoranda and subjection, is voting against this draft law in principle and on the articles. It delivers your Memorandum of Understanding to the mockery of the Greek people, which will no doubt be expressed whenever the next elections are held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u41	We thank Mr Karakostas and the fact that we have 'problems', ladies and gentlemen. 66 colleagues have been written to speak. I would therefore suggest that speaking time should be reduced, as usual, always at the expense of Members, in five minutes, and that everyone observes the time completely, so that we can start the vote at about 20.00 hours. Mr. Maniotis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday was the day of the great confession. The great confession of the government, through the oral Chakalogu, that yes, we incorporated it all into the Siomple Fund and that yes, we will privatize it all. You've made Shoeble's dream since 2011. Since 2011, Siomple has been asking all Greek governments to have a superstition where all the public property and this superstition will be incorporated into and run by his people, the Eurogroup people and you have done it. Because now with Article 2, even incorporate the water that Mr. Tsipras said going to HSAP "vote me, because if you take me out as Prime Minister, this will be a referendum on water". We saw what happened. But that's not enough. It is not enough to incorporate the entire property of the Greek people, Greece. Yesterday you confessed to privatizing everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u43	When did I say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u44	Yesterday. And you said exactly the following.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u45	Come on, Mr. Maniotis, let's have a good dialogue. Don't say I said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u46	Listen, Minister, and you will answer. Listen to what you said yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u47	You're better than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u48	Listen to what you said yesterday, and I'm glad you're here to disobey me if you didn't say what I'm saying now. He said, therefore, that Mr Tsakalotos, either because he escaped or with the arrogance of authority "Don't care" - even though the EEAS and the EEAS are entering the U.S. office - "The water will not be privatized as long as I am the Minister." Who told you, Minister, that we are interested in your personal political commitment to privatising water? If tomorrow Mr. Tsipras rebuild you, is there at least no commitment from the Tsipra government that he will not privatise the water? That's exactly what Mr. Chakalotos said. He actually admits that, when he leaves the Finance Minister's chair, everything is open to privatize. Last week, however, ladies and gentlemen, it was also the government's political Waterloo. Policy Waterlo: Kalogris gate, the left strand, the government's contractor with the best-betters in the government, who ruled by SYRIZA his credit line from the Bank of Attica became from 10 million to 100 million. We said: will the Prosecutor not intervene for the entire operation of the Attica Bank, the way in which seals and bolts were checked and placed in the Land of Conservatives? Yesterday, of course, he also escaped this government scandal. Of the thirty-four countries that the OECD checked last week, the only country in which the tax rates increased, is the country governed by the Tsipras Government. In the remaining thirty-three countries, the tax rates have declined and, therefore, they are more attractive to investment. Last week the Cyprus Minister of Finance announced to the Committee on Economic Affairs that Cyprus will receive every year from gas, the Aphrodite look, 500 to 600 million euros. Every year, Cyprus, by just one look! You have three signed contracts, which we have given you, three contracts under consideration for two years and three more contracts, which are waiting to be evaluated. Eighteen months you haven't thrown a penny for the country's mineral wealth! Cyprus receives EUR 500 million! The ELPE announced the day before yesterday that the plot of Patraikos has another hundred million barrels than they had budgeted. You're the ones who're sneezing about others. However, it is more convenient for you to eliminate the discounts that you had given young professionals, engineers, doctors, lawyers, to eliminate the small discounts on insurance contributions, which you had given to the small hotel owners and room owners. Last week. The Waterlo is continuing. Yunker announces investment of 116 billion in all Member States except Greece, where from 116 billion has not been invested in Greece. Investments of 116 billion and 100 000 jobs elsewhere, except Greece. Last week, the Church, the other Waterloe of Mr. Friend's Minister. Try to change the field. We are not at the forefront of the political juncture, let us go, for example, to the issue, which each Greek family employs every night, what was the role of the church in occupation. That was the big issue that concerns the Greek Government. Of course, rightly the Archbishop gave him the correct answer and Maximus, Mr. Tsipras beat him. Yesterday's peak: Dobrovskis, the good of the partners, the good of the lenders - is not the bad IMF, is the European Commission, is the Vice-President of the European Commission - what did he say in Reuters from King? That the demagogic and populist policy Tsipras destroyed the growth rate of 2.5%, which we anticipated, the Europeans had predicted, and Greece entered a recession. And now the Tsipras government has to take more painful measures because it chose not to follow the reforms launched by the previous government. For once, an apology, won't you say? Even an apology! You asked us if you were cheating. The answer is: Yes, you are political fraudsters! You are political fraudsters and you have criminalised against national interests and against national independence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u49	Madam President, can he make such designations?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u50	In February 2015 you gave 11 billion of the Financial Stability Fund, because Mr. Varoufakis did not want them. He didn't want any money. He wanted dignity. The preventive credit line didn't make you. You charged the Greek banks and lost the Greek people 20 billion of the value of the Greek banks. You have lost 6 billion of the profits of Greek government bonds, collected by the European Central Bank and the other Member States' central banks, and charged us with 80 billion more. This does not require you to say, 'Basta, somewhere we were wrong. Let us apologise.' Obviously, there's no such sensitivity. Of course, there will be no sensitivity to a government that did not dare do even the great colonial power, the Great Britain in its colonies. Such contracts, such as the Siomple Fund, the supreme colonial office, did not even sign up for the Great Britain. Greece had not signed such a contract in 1898, when it granted only its matches and salt to its then bankruptcy. Now, you assign the water and the electricity. And you grant everything, not only revenue, not only taxes, but also the administration and the conduct of investment policy and everything that constitutes State intervention in basic public goods. The State with a Government of Tsipras with a government of SYRIZA is withdrawn from all actions related to the defence of public goods. Ninety-nine years. Yeah, ninety-nine years. And you come and you vote for what you are voting on. Why? Because you're managerially incompetent. And because your interlocutors don't trust you, they imposed you and you accepted it because you didn't have another weapon, this famous superstition. Why were they asking you with such intensity? Because they don't trust Mr. Tsipras' signature and want a guarantee. You're not a fiddling interlocutor. So because they don't trust you, they demanded you to mortgage the entire property of Greece, the entire public property. For they see that, on the one hand, Mr. Tsipras participates in social-democrat meetings, photographed and smiled, wears the suit of the so-called Social Democrats and, on the other hand, blindly closes the eye at the party audience and at ministers willing to play the role of so-called Left and says: "I am putting signatures. You also put signatures. But it's okay. You're getting a little horrific. Tell how much it hurts. Tell how sensitive you are. But put the signature on." But when it is time for the ministers to defend their signature, such as the signature of Mr. Spirtzis and Mr. Skourletis in Greek, they are absent and do not come to defend their signatures and let the old Minister of Culture speak to us about his obviously youth vision of the democratic path towards socialism. This democratic path towards socialism passes through the declaration of the entire region of the Greek region as an archaeological region. The superstition: Mr Tsakalots was right yesterday, I think, emphasised how the Siomple Fund works. Minister, is it or is it not true that in the law you voted on, of the five - of which the two are foreign - one is Sarkozy's best friend and Lagard's right hand, a conservative man and you traded him with the SYRIZA executive, who also happens to be a husband? The wife or wife doesn't matter. But it's related to a SYRIZA strain. So they traded each other politically. What have you signed from the property of the Greek State? That 50% will go to debt - let's say you accepted it - and that 50% will go to growth. How's it going? On the basis of the rules of procedure to be defined by the Siomple Fund Supervisory Board. What will be the rules of procedure? A ministerial decision of your own, your personal. Am I right? So the decision on how to use public property will be a ministerial decision by Mr Tsakalotou. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you will not be asking about the use of public property. It will be decided by the General Assembly, which is the Minister of Finance and if he regrets it, because the man has made a mistake after six months and has asked for a minor change of his own ministerial decision, then he must obtain the consent of the lenders, the Supervisory Board. Is it or isn't it? Have you, or have you not given, any other than the management of the property, and the way in which the public property is exploited to the excess without you even, as a representative of the executive, have the possibility of modifying certain parameters? This House, which has been elected by the Greek people, will have no opinion on how public property will be exploited. Is this or is this not an assignment of national sovereignty? I heard SYRIZA's colleagues yesterday complaining, sometimes and with a little anger saying: 'You are not making us a good criticism. You are not making constructive criticisms of us." The representatives of SYRIZA who were struggling us, exulting us, calling us "German germans", beaten and did all they could to prevent anything from going ahead, with political courage, saying: "You are not making us constructive criticism." Ladies and gentlemen, when you negotiated and signed the Tsipra Memorandum in the summer of 2015, we stood with a sense of responsibility, patriotism and once again did not put our party interest above the national interest. We said that we would support, because the European socialists from us had called for political support at the time, because they did not trust the signature Tsipras and we said yes, once again the national patriotic duty above the party. We also put our backs on it, and the European Social Democrats have put their backs on it so that the country can be saved and not thrown out of the euro. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. You are even taking advantage of this in order to tell us 'Yes, but sign them'. That's it! We did not sign any Memorandum of Tsipras. We signed up to save the country and not throw it out of the euro. Now you're selling it all out. For the record, I'll leave a random post. Mr Tsipras in one of his many visits to the EESC says: 'The elections on water'. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The elections have also been held in this referendum - the people have made Mr Tsipras a Prime Minister. He said 'yes'. Now look what it brings, the sellout of HSY. But he's obviously used to it. Since this is another referendum with 60% saying 'no', has it turned into 'yes' within one night, will it hesitate in front of it for water? Finally, for PPC - because this is another flag of ideologicalism of the Tsipras government - 17% of Tsipras, from 51%, is already privatising with the recruitment of a foreign consultant. Sale of 17% of PPC to a foreign private investor. Now what comes is the 34% remaining, the majority of them, everything. In the current, in this public good, even 34%, the blocking line, even this goes to the supreme court under the terms of the five appointed, without the Greek Parliament having any say. Is that or isn't this a sale? We, ladies and gentlemen - and I inform you, Madam President, because you have asked us to do so - will make a request for a roll-call vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, we must tell you that you will find us in front of you everywhere. In society and in Parliament. Obviously, we are voting against it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece for 15 minutes. Please manage the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. The draft law we are debating is a continuation and implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding, so that the second subset of the first instalment can be disbursed. So they're all measures. The entire bill includes measures, which are for the benefit of and to meet the needs of the monopolistic groups, at the expense of the working class and the workers and will lead to further deterioration of the living conditions of the people's family. That is the one we have. The second presumption is the political deception, which is taking place these two days, of political deception, involving the Government, the New Democracy and the PASOK. They're making fun of the world. They're making fun of him. It is the third memorandum, which you voted together. Didn't you know about the fund, gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK? Since the FEK and the Memorandum clearly state what this new fund is. What does it mean? For ninety years the assets of high, significant value will go to create and ultimately maximise their value which will be liquidated by privatisation and other measures. What didn't you know when you voted for these things? Are you coming and talking now and the pain in New Democracy and the PASOK on the water? But, haven't you, uh, ordered H.N.A. and H.S.A. in the H.S.H.A.D. in order to privatise them? The current government continues to do so. In the FEK on May 26, 2016, where it has the plan of TAYDE, as regards the privatisation plans on page 16 reads: "The Thessaloniki Water and Landscape Company, sale of 23% of its share capital". On page 17: "Seasonal and Landscaping Company, 11% sale", held by HSHR. The companies, which are now part of the new subsidiary of the general government, will all be made in the sense of optimising the operation. What does it mean to optimise the functioning of a public limited company, whether it is under public control or private control? It means it has to be competitive, so profitable. How does this profitability turn out? Through intensification of workers. Either 50% of the EEAS remains in the public sector or this is also given, the intensification of workers is given. Overthrowing in industrial relations is a given one. The reduction in wages is a given one. As also given, it is the increase in tariffs. Who are you telling the public good stories about water? When is it in capitalism a public good? Isn't people paying for it? When the U.S.S.A. was state-owned, didn't he pay for it? There weren't any families who couldn't pay the water? What's that? Is that a public asset provided to everyone for free? That means public good. What, then, are you mocking the world of evil? It's just that the dialogue you've made is who made the best privatizations or which parts of the capital, which business groups want to serve both Germans, French, Austrian, American or Chinese. That is why you are fighting on the substance when the result will be the same for the workers and for the people's family. Doing what you didn't know? That you were deceived by gentlemen of PASOK and New Democracy with the Supreme Court? Since it was taken for granted what the excess will be. You knew it and voted on it in the third memorandum. Ensuring the property for ninety-nine years. Understood assets for ninety-nine years. The management of the Greek State and the lenders for ninety years of these assets and their exploitation in every form and through privatisations, in order to allow all that will be collected - the FEK here clearly says, the Memorandum - 50% to go to the public debt service and the remaining 50% to be used for investment. Where, then, will something for the benefit of the people's strata go? Nowhere. Not much more when we see the big picture as a whole. And what does it say? That in order to be able to carry out the evaluation, any evaluations must be carried out, then the anti-grassroots measures must be implemented and the fund has a specific role to play. And what's the matter? That if the debt is to be reduced - if the government debt is reduced and in any way weakened - it means that the people need to tighten their livelihood even further. And after all - under the writing, these sacrifices made by the people are without the expiry date. And what is the new deception the SYRIZA government is trying to make to the people? The myth of capitalist development. The myth of the alliance of the South. The myth of changing politics in the European Union. What does capitalist development mean? It means that business groups should be supported, that competitiveness and profitability should be shielded. Where does that lead? It leads to the fact that workers, the working class, should sacrifice its rights every day to the altar of capital gains. It leads to the conclusion that the people's family should sacrifice every day the satisfaction of the people's needs in the altar of the armoring of competitiveness and the extroversion of big capital. And when he comes, if this recovery comes, which is uncertain that he will come or that he will last, then what will you say to the working class? "Continue to make sacrifices to maintain growth." That's why you're creating all these mechanisms. And what South alliance is that? Your allies, Rencie and Holland? Can't you see what they're doing in France and Italy? It is what will come after the second assessment on the labour market. What does the Olad law of your ally say in the great South alliance that he brought with the El Comory law? The promotion of full optimisation of working time, the constant daily working hours are abolished, overtime and overworking are all unpaid. Isn't that what you're talking about today, as it leaked? Isn't that one of the guidelines for the liberalisation of the labour market? Not to be determined, that is, daily working time and someday working eight, ten, fifteen hours and the other two hours working. Who does this serve? The needs of the working class or the needs of business groups and capital? What was brought by your other ally, Rencie, in Italy, by the “Jobs Act” law? Dismissals are liberated and contracts are imposed with zero rights. Aren't you talking about liberalising collective redundancies and about contracts - what you allegedly call collective agreements - with zero rights? There is a huge dispute within the European Union itself. And the dialogue is not about how to solve the problems of workers and how to improve their position. The dispute is which business groups, from which countries will be won through this crisis, and if Germany - there is the real controversy - will take over to get rid of the highly indebted states, the highly indebted financial sector and bear this burden. That's the whole conversation that's going on. On all other issues, in the attack on the working class, they mean, agree and implement it together, whether they are countries of the North or countries of the South, whether they are participating in the euro area or in the European Union, or they are coming out of it, such as Great Britain, which there is no stone in the stone in terms of labour rights, there is nothing left. You will have heard of zero contracts in Great Britain. This is, then, the development of things. And there the government, as a very good contributor to previous policies, follows the thread left by others, unleashes all that the previous governments have not been able to do, and even copys them in practice of how to legislate in urgent, overreaching, with three committees within one day. And, of course, political deception continues on the part of the government to "golden the pill". What did you do when the insurance was demolished, when you demolished the social character of insurance and privatised it completely, turning the pension into a privileged allowance? You put some limited time exceptions for some categories - for farmers, for young professionals, for young scientists - which you abolished in one day - today - after three months, only to "golden the pill". And so, instead of all that you have said, we are supposed to improve the situation, we see the situation getting worse every day. With this bill, on the one hand, you removed these small exceptions to insurance, which concern young scientists, concerns farmers, concerns the acquisition of the fictitious years or even the owners of small tourist accommodation up to ten rooms, on the other, you proceeded to incorporate the second phase of operations into the new fund that you created and its new subsidiary, the EDIS. And inside you put the water, the Attica METRO, PPC, the public buildings, in the direction of privatising or operating on the basis of best practices, so that the commercialisation of any goods or services is increased. With Articles 4 to 17 - the rest of the articles are essentially the trunk of the bill - the liberalisation of the electricity market is accelerated. It is a liberation that began in the mid-90s with PASOK governments and is now being continued by the governments of the New Democracy and you are now moving on. Of course, you may differ in forms. Instead, for the small PPC, electricity should now be auctioned. Instead of going to investment and private entrepreneurship, you turn it into converters, because they don't have the funds today, they don't want to invest and they don't want to take the risk of the investment by building new production units of electricity. And you tell them, don't worry, you will become post-consumers, you will buy cheap electricity from PPC, through the auctions, and you will sell it much more expensive to the people's households, to the "consumers" as you call them, to make a profit. Air, that is, they're going to sell. Transgressors! And you say 'new entrepreneurship', 'healthy entrepreneurship'. These are debriefings of the past, which the previous governments have done, and you continue with them, possibly by serving other types of business groups. Through this process, which you are promoting and speeding up, the substance is: PPC's shrinking, the deterioration of PPC's economic position, the deterioration of the workforce's position and above all, the increase in electricity tariffs that will occur through this process. I mean, people are going to pay high-priced electricity through the auctions they're going to make. At the same time, you are giving the opportunity not only to business groups active in the electricity sector, but also to other large consumers - that is, large businesses - to participate in this auction and to take cheap electricity, below costs. Do you know what it reminds of? The contract of the Greek State with the French State POSINE. That's what your contract reminds of again. That reminds you of the statutes you bring. Because the urban state has done nothing more than support capital in every way, charging burdens on the people's backs. That's the way overloaded public services happened. And today, privatised public enterprises in this sense will operate, of armour, of capitalist profits or of their own or of their own capital and business groups as a whole. In this respect, there seems to be nothing new at all. That is why we as a JRC say that the people must not be deceived through this exacerbation of confrontation between the new bipolarism that is being formed today. They try to deceive him, close the popular discontent within the walls, i.e. in the contributors between New Democracy and PASOK on the one hand and SYRIZA on the other. They are essentially seeking to encourage popular discontent, to encourage the radicalisation of the world and the need to organise its struggle in such a way and in such forms that it responds to the whole attack, to respond to the future plans of the European Union, NATO, the International Monetary Fund and the governments - the whole of capital and the bourgeoisie - by targeting those who are truly responsible. And truly responsible is the capitalist system, it's the capitalist profit, it's the monopolistic groups. And against them and their interests must be confronted. Only in this way will the struggles of the people's order and of the rest of the people's layers be garnered only in this way. Because they can stop the attack, they can restore the huge losses they have had over the past few years. No government will give them anything back. On the contrary, he'll take them. Only in this way can they pave the way for the hopeful prospect. One is the hopeful prospect for the people and the working class: The overthrow of this rotten system, the release from the European Union and NATO, the building of socialism. That is the hopeful prospect. All the rest is nothing but excuses for those who are therapists of an exploitation system, a rotting system, which makes wars, which creates refugee and immigration, which creates poverty and impoverishment. This is the role assigned to you by history. Be therapists of such a system.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Barriotas from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Madam President. We are again, once again, in an express procedure. We are already confused, because it is something between urgency and urgency, since we have decided to be urgent but its time limits are within the limits of urgency. We've got a hybrid and a process that's a pretext anyway. And the degeneration of the parliamentary work I think is depicted in the Chamber right now where we are few. And we are very few because we all understand that what will be said and what arguments will be put forward in this Chamber is of little importance for the result, which is, after all, a given one. There is therefore an attempt to make the procedure as urgent as possible. I think it is particularly interesting, however, that the government's majority is gradually beginning to acquire features which, after the summer of September, are becoming more and more specific. Both in the debate on the Greek and during the committee yesterday, we did hear terrible things. It was defeated in the process of transition to democratic socialism that Mr Baltas saw in Greek ratification. Mr. Flambury saw a triumph. The same day from the same Step. Mr Diaras was defeated for the waters, as he said yesterday, 'Modernist reform' described it. He's crying, he's happy with each other. In fact, though, the job is done. All together, they vote for everything. This is the characteristic that slowly begins to be captured and crystallised. To a large extent this is part of a specific tactic, which also starts to become evident. It's a supermarket government that sells to everyone, according to their needs, whatever they want to hear, as they want to hear. And finally he does what he thinks he should do, vote for everything coordinates. So we now have a government majority in the country, which is a solid one. At the same time, however, she is awkward, she does not have political characteristics, she has no ideological and political mark from the point of view, nor is she a founding government. Don't be ridiculous. As I said, maliciousness is being exploited. And in the context of malicious behaviour, we must incorporate the differentiation that we are now reading in the press on the part of the Occupied Territories, even though it is an unprecedented Minister of the Government not to vote for a provision of the government bill. However, safe maliciousness is in fact and does not constitute any kind of political disagreement. So we have a majority that votes, digits, humiliates them and gets them back in three days, in two months. It foreshadows the sale of the EEAS, for example, which considered it an occupation and a national betrayal some time ago, without any quarrel. But she doesn't tell us why she doesn't know what she's doing. Go to socialism, as Mr Baltas says? Modernization? Day-to-day management of a situation that goes beyond reality and its strategies and tactics? The problem is that, with such a majority to us, which votes for whatever it is, I repeat, the parliamentary procedure does not mean by definition. It is done by definition to the ears of the unhearing, as everyone says theirs, doing what must do and get up and go. The problem with this is that this constant depreciation of the parliamentary procedure undermines democracy itself. And it was you, ladies and gentlemen, who once denounced this and do it now. Full depopulation, the replacement of ideology by political cynicism, effectively undermines democracy itself. And I feel the need to say it - I have the feeling that nobody cares, but it must be formulated - because in the Balkan model of state failure that we have seen in many examples in previous years, this institutional failure leads to the hug of the underworld. And because it has begun to salute us from the corners, I think it should be said and recorded and no one should care. So let us go to the bill and the first chapter, where it is a record of what we have been saying before, an absolute political cynicism. I am sure that some - not all of them, but some - from the government majority feel as well smart, that they have done a great deal of cleverly deceiving farmers, small hoteliers and young scientists of the famous tie movement within three months, after getting back, in fact, what they supposedly gave a few months ago. None of you seem to be concerned about what kind of message this message is for the young farmer, what he takes for the government, but above all about politics and politicians in general, against this "bottachnick" young farmer, the new hotelier, the new Greek away from politics. And I said before. The fact that the insurance law is a hole, of course, that it was voted only as a Memorandumary cheque, completely disconnected from the real need for a viable insurance system in the country, which has already begun to appear with the IKA's inability to give pensions and the holes growing from everywhere, does not concern anyone. We said, the majority vote on anything that is considered partisanly appropriate until the next morning. That's going backwards. It doesn't matter. In the second chapter we unfortunately have another expression of political amoralism. You like, you do not like, ladies and gentlemen, whatever you say about the transfer of all state property to a public limited company headed by the next ninety years will be Russian-English, it is registered in the Greek political history entitled "Supervision and assignment". That's actually it. That's right. Do you want to talk if it's less or more if it's a little better or a little worse? In fact, the entire property of the Greek State is granted to an agency run by a European organisation for the next ninety years. And that's a feat. We talked about 1897. That's not when it happened. Let's not talk about it again. This is a felony of this "Government of National Rescue" which speaks of occupants, which speaks of betrayals and grants public property to an independent body run by third parties. That's the reality. What I want to comment on is what Mr Tsakalots said yesterday - unfortunately he is not here - and made me very impressed. Mr Tsakalotos said, among other things, yesterday, in committee, that the concession of all the TECs to the famous 'SECS S.A.'. It is done to protect them from the bad habit of the old parties to appoint them and to have anarchist administrations. The sale of the property as a medicine for old-fashionedism. I was really speechless, "creamy" that the kids say. If we've found the medicine for old-fashioned and it's so easy, we have some hospitals that are extremely problematic, with '50s management, corruption, favorability. Heartologist needs Trikala, cleaners to send Mr. Paulakis because that's how he suits him. So do a "S.H. Hospitals", put a Swedish head for the next ninety years and cleaned up. That's nice. We solved that, too. And then we go to the ministries, where twenty-seven thousand seven hundred have been appointed for the last year and a half, to do a "Government S.A.", to put a leader there as well. To find - I suggest - no Otto's nephew, give him the keys, don't get tired of being left-wing ruler. The foreigners will solve the problem of public policy and its modernisation for the next ninety-nine years. It could be funny, but it's not. It's not funny at all. And that's not funny, because the Minister says these owls in full knowledge of what he says, mainly to cover what he said last night. The Minister admitted - whatever he says - that privatisation of both water and PPC and water and everything else that has gone to this service is possible as long as he is the Minister. He said the same thing about duty in the spring. You see, the ministers have been a little flexible in recent years and the statements - especially these vertical statements - are the best predictive factor in what will happen next. To close with energy, which is essentially the most important and most crucial theme contained in this bill and which should be discussed differently in a different way and in a different manner of seriousness, it is - as I said yesterday - a very great reform - a very great opportunity, too - which, unfortunately, is also lame and is imported by this process introduced. I don't know why. After all, one defeat above, one defeat below, I'm sure that whatever it was, you would vote for it, no way. I can't understand why he's being pushed in summary procedures. It could be anything. The transition to democratic socialism can wait, it has patience. The liberalisation of the energy market is a great opportunity for the country. It could, under appropriate conditions, open up energy to very large investments, even now, with this unfavourable climate and the unfavourable image that the country has created abroad, because there is interest, there is pooled funds and there really is a possibility for businesses to grow, create jobs, innovation and come to the country. This is an extremely difficult and complicated process. I said yesterday - and I say this today - that there are even concerns - I, at least, have the few I can see about the sector - whether there is the know-how and the human potential to implement such a reform in the field of energy, at the times that are required, which are short and we will see them along the way, because, by the way, timelines are not here. The bill actually goes down without timelines. They will be imposed by the troika, I imagine, on evaluation of the stagnant. But, right now, it doesn't. Instead, the well-known route was preferred, we quickly make a bill, disconnected from the real need, disconnected from reality, just to vote in the House, get the subsidy and then forget it until foreigners bring it back to us, as we are told by various issues that have been voted on by all governments over a period of time to which nothing has happened. The secret here is that we all know that no one is going to try to apply it. They dominate ideas, but I think there is objective weakness even in human resources and within the government. I do not think that this government is capable of effectively conceiving and implementing such and such scale changes. He has not given us any such example by now. The basic concept, of course, is that it's tricks at the expense of pups, they'll take the money and they'll be done. As I said, the government majority has become crystallined, despite all the maliciousness, of the 'I do not vote for the water' type from the safe, etc., actually votes for everything. Anything that needs to be voted on, voted without a word. There is no need for consultation and dialogue. Doses should be taken. But the question, ladies and gentlemen, is where, for what? It is of real interest, I have a real question about this: I would like to hear from the government all this process, as is reflected in the last few months in this and outside society, which is heading? What exactly do you want to do? What do you want to leave for future generations? What's your strategic goal? Is the transition to socialism? Is it modernisation? Do you have a historical perspective or does it end next week? Are you interested in what the story will write, or do you only care what "HAY" writes tomorrow? The second one doesn't have to worry at all. I'm sure of it. For the first time, however, it would be good at least to record your view, your pursuit and what you want, because for a long time no one of us, but I am very afraid of you too, does not know what you want and where you want to go to this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor now. After the speech Mr Georgiadis will receive and we will conclude the circle of rapporteurs and speakers. Here, Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to read by word - and this is about today's debate - what was then said by the Secretary-General of Transparency and Human Rights, George Surlas. Surlas - for whoever does not know his history - I would like to remind you that he was the only MEP who - against his party at that time - asked the first question about George Koskottas. Old stories. A man of clean, honest and inadmissible. Around 2013, therefore, Giorgos Sourlas invoked Decision 3578/2010 of the Council of State, in which he considered that the establishment and operation of illegal television channels is contrary to the Constitution on which the State's obligation to apply the laws and the principle of equality is based. Of course, this decision of the Council of State is a case-law. He said a lot more then George Surlas. He was talking about the illegal way the channels operated, about immunity, about how they affected the political scene at the time. I would also like to invoke - and this is very important in today's debate - a book written by Thomas Mann just before Hitler came to power. The title of the book is "Mario and the Wizard". Thomas Man was referring to the extent to which superstitions, metaphysics, excesses, lies, populism, which resulted in what I told you. We are living - I believe - a version of this history today, where the correct reasoning has given its place to other things. I don't want to describe them. Yesterday, for example, we saw that one of those claiming a licence had reached it by taking it, for reasons of legality, and nothing else, has left. One might expect the critics to gather together, those who had almost based all their arguments on the 'complex' set by this government and who had as the headlines the individual entrepreneur. Not only do they not, but in a strange way we hear arguments that touch the limits of irrationality again. And one thinks: Why? You're gonna tell me, are they all like that? Oh, no. I believe that there are clear brains in opposition that they are not talking at the moment. I say all this, ladies and gentlemen, because we need to read these two pages carefully. It doesn't have to take much time, it's all two pages. No one and not even the Minister, Mr Chakalotos, said that things could not have been better. He admits it and good for him, and I agree with him. But what does this text say about the SAD say here? One is the shareholder - we know that very well - and he decides. How can we be privatized? This job was done by the TIAD. A Greek government will decide. This is the only shareholder. I would like to say that the excess has left out in this Chamber. I think sooner or later there will be exaggeration, falsification of truth, inaccurateness, because it has short feet. I believe that and I believe it very strongly. The correct reasoning has always prevailed. He was paid by many expensive great scientists, great artists, great politicians, but he always prevailed. I think it will prevail now. I heard PASOK's spokesman, Mr. Maniatis, saying again that some must apologize, speak again, with emphasis, on political frauds and stuff like that. I want to remind Mr. Maniatis, because he's also involved, maybe unwittingly, some names. Because lately, with incredible lightness, we've seen some people deceive a bank. I firmly believe that the bank will find its way and perhaps find it better than some people imagine. In hours of responsibility, we must be very careful when talking about the banking system. I would like to remind you that Mr Gabrielis was President of the Bank of Attica from 2010 to June 2016, that is until a few months ago. The CEO Alexander Antonopoulos, who also submitted to the Committee of Inquiry, was formerly chairman of the Deposits and Loan. All of these were state officials SYRIZA didn't appoint them. Names such as Ms. Ziegoli, Mr. Batselos, Mr. Manalonis, who even hired Musa for two years, Mr. Selianakis, Mr. Voganatsis, were hard members of the parties of the two major parties. And protect them - oh of the miracle! - there are all the ministers of the New Democracy and PASOK. I do not know what other arguments one might have and how one has decided to take loans or not, which he has finally lost his license and which I understand. There's been an incredible noise. And this is where I want to be realistic. I've said many times that it's a reality for hardcore players. Every day, five channels, five big newspapers and five radios rampant and speak inaccurate, falsify the truth. I don't characterize myself, and I'm very careful, because I hear expressions going for flea fuck in here. 'L'etat c'est moi'. 'Prime is me.' Some people have ownership and perception in the state today, I don't know, react as if they had deprivation syndrome, in a government that does nothing more and nothing less than trying to put order into a reality that was grim. And if I get tired, I'll do it again. None of this government is brought to justice. Mr. Hardouvelis is referred back. Mrs. Stournara is in control. Mr. Mandelis is being referred back. Mr. Laurentiadis is referred back. Mr. Nearmenis is quoted. The Grivea family is being referred back. I would like to remind you that the translation of 'SIEMENS' has been made and the trial will proceed. I would remind you that the ENERGA case, the greatest fraud, is also referred to. And not the number of trials goes on. Why are we told: 'What exactly are you doing?' I don't know, can I apologize? I'll do it. For I have heard Mr Maniotis say: 'Apologise. I really do. But what and when you've literally plundered this country for the last 40 years, haven't you done your self-criticism? I'm not saying for the last five years, but for the last 40 years. It's a shape of oxymomile, you know, say apologise and talk about political crooks. I believe that this choice of opposition hurts you and it will not go far. I want to believe that sooner or later this government will put the country in order. He's fighting now for 2.8 billion. A prerequisite is these fifteen prerequisites. Its second step is debt, which - I am sorry to say - you considered it viable and, indeed, you were comfortable with the terrible surpluses of 3.5% and 4.5%. It is never too late - because I heard the Chief of Officer's Opposition - to fight for low surpluses of 2% after 2018. I'm the one who tends to go with him. The next step is the quantitative relaxation of Draghi. For those who don't understand it, they're messages too loud on the markets. At the moment we are talking about it - and Stathakis is not only saying it - the sign at the end of the year will be positive for the economy. It won't be a recession. It will be small but positive. And everyone's talking about over 2.5% and 2.7% next year. With a lot of modesty, the Prime Minister spoke for two years, while Klaus Regling himself said we could go out on the markets and in 2017. The Prime Minister didn't say about 2017. He said to get out on the markets in 2018. I do not see why this incredible war is currently taking place. Because I believe that yes, we made mistakes - not only those who are in the messages - and we will do more. Those who do nothing, then yes, make no mistakes. I mean - and I'm finishing - that we know very well that the world is suffering. That's what you're taking advantage of. Only he's not suffering from us. We didn't loot the country. Some others plundered her and did so in a really bad way. We're here a hundred MPs we didn't come to get rich. We're not here to make money in this House. We could do it out of our business. It is a debt and we will raise a matter for the Government of high taxation which must also be dropped on the high VAT that must be paid both for large contributions and for property taxation. The government has already done so, and I believe it will be the first corrective actions. It is a government that I sincerely wish - and I believe it - not to change the question. If this country arrived here, it's because some of the civilian staff, not all of them, put a deep "hand in honey" in and systematically did it. And it's a pity, because at the top of the iceberg only Akis Tsohatzopoulos appears. No, it wasn't just Ace. There were a lot of them. I therefore believe that these moves will be made. That's what they're staring to exploit quickly, because they know they're gonna have no reason to exist. This government - I expressly tell you - will take the country out of this surveillance. He'll write history, be some people do what they do today or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Mr Georgiadis now has the floor, and then I will give the floor to the Minister, Mr Skourletis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again history is repeated to justify those who believe that it is evolving roundly and not linearly. Another memorandum, then, is another assessment of lenders, another draft law with the so-called prerequisites and all the inventive ones you discover each time. Of course, we may usually use this expression, which I shall say, to imply a very serious unreservedness or disregard of any personality in the history of humanity, which has been brought to war and which has lost peace, but which is the destruction of a people. I therefore believe that it is of little value at the moment to discuss an article on an article or a memorandum on which sovereignty is better or worse. Everything above applies the same recipe and misery bring home. However, I have to thank the government because this time he really cared about us and didn't bring us five hundred pages or a thousand pages to read within a weekend, but only thirty-three, to make time to study. And if you are concerned that these thirty three pages of this hurt are not enough to describe the marvelous achievements of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, to reassure you and remind you of 'not much of it'. I am sure that this government, even in a text of half-page, is capable of selling or, more rightly, of selling half of Greece. You have proved it, and with the above, that all the "slaughters" and all the "slash" are even as much as: airports, ports, banks, areas - "fillets" such as Greek, coastlines, water, natural gas, motorways, railways. And you're giving all this for a piece of bread. And all this to try to stay in the government for another short time - because you will soon not be government - and have had time to do some more work. I am also happy to ask for a favour because, within our delight with the agreement we have reached on the Greek, we have forgotten to ask for it in plenary. Please, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA - ANEL Government, hold tight, set red lines as you only know, of course, slit the memorials, as you only know, but at least do another rebellious one, but at least keep the Greek name, to remember that Greece once belonged to the Greeks. At this point I would like to ask for a second favor: let the honourable ministers know whether there are still some assets in the Greek state and list them to us. It won't take long. If they do exist, it'll only be one or two. At least if the Greek people know which streets to walk and which pedestrians to walk their children. You've just sold out everything. On these issues, the majority is emerging instead of beating your head and you find substantial solutions for the problems. A classic example is taxation. In such a grim situation, what would a serious government do in this matter? Just the opposite of what you do. It would reduce taxes, reduce social security contributions and encourage young people, just as four months ago with Mr Katrugalos's law, which provided for small reductions in insurance for young professionals, who were then voting, and now, with this draft law, you are voting. What second simple measure would it apply to a reasonable government? The cut-off of the waste all over the government. Even today there are dozens or, more rightly, hundreds of unnecessary bodies, often with a graphical title, paid by the Greek taxpayer. I put forward a relevant list - we have analysed it very much in the past - just for your reminder. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And for all that you do not do, what is your cause for this negligence? As is always the fault of bad lenders, who are allegedly forcing you to do with heavy heart real things that you don't want. Obviously, we agree that lenders are not the best people. We're the last to defend them. However, these bad people, by Mrs Velkoulescu's mouth, told you very strongly indeed that the very high tax rates are pushing GDP and asked for the package to become less material. And how's that gonna happen? With changes in budgetary neutrality, with a reduction in taxation and a cut in overheads in public expenditure. I submit the relevant article for confirmation. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So society needs to know that taxes have a name, they are called the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and with its own initiatives consciously and firmly leading taxes to heights and people in despair. By this method, for example, the Government forced OAU insured persons to have EUR 11.5 billion overdue. I put the relevant article in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Within this framework, the fund finds it difficult to pay the pensions for the last two months of 2016 and the Board of Directors approved last Wednesday a request for the allocation of 150m euros from the fund money, namely the Solidarity Fund. So the government is puffing up our children's savings to close financial holes. I am also tabling a relevant article on why the truth is true. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have now lost your credibility. The inconsistency of your words and actions has no precedent. But you say and sign one minute, and you do the other. I would particularly like to focus on statements made yesterday by the majority of Ministers and Members. Many have tried to convince us that subjecting the TECs to the new superstate does not mean de facto privatization. But how much basis does that really have? On the basis of the recent statements by the ministers that they will not allow the sale of 17% of PPC to the HICP. Oh, of the miracle, however, in the masterplan of the BSI, which provides for the transfer of shares for sale, we see the approval of the Governing Council of Economic Policy dated 25 May 2016. In addition, Mr President-in-Office, we see broadly your signature on this. But you've been saying to the world that you're signing. Your tactics are familiar. I hand over the relevant FEC to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned FEC, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Since we have captured PPC, let's see the credibility of SYRIZA about another DCIKO, the HICP, which, as is well known, is also transferred along with HSH to the new superstition. And I address you, colleagues of SYRIZA, who intend to vote on this draft law with both hands, because you forget too quickly or you do not know where you are signing. To be more specific. You have forgotten very quickly the question under number 2214, which was tabled thirty by a SYRIZA MP on 4 May 2015, demanding the return of the shares in NDAP and NDAF, because you allegedly fought for the restoration of constitutional legitimacy, because, as you know, water is not sold. However, I forgot: the EGTCs are going to the excess and are not to be privatised but to be exploited. You know, of course, too, that this argument is unscathed and has no basis. I'm putting this question in the Minutes to freshen your memory. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And since your self-reservation and self-reflecting have no end and the gap between your words and events is huge, I will also present a question which they tabled by six SYRIZA Members on 14 August 2014, which said in its lymphatic title: "In despair the owners of rent apartments and rooms due to their compulsory and self-retroactive retrospective insurance to the OAU". In the old days, then, when you were opposition, you were urgently calling for the small tourist business sector to be protected, and today you are voting for its destruction. Ladies and gentlemen, will you really vote on this draft law? So you're going to vote for what you've been condemning until yesterday? So I say in the Minutes the question you have asked yourself, because it is possible in a short time when you will be opposition to re-submit it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The four fanatical Memorandum parties or the two government coalitions, to be fairer, i.e. the SYRIZA - ANEL and the New Democracy with satellite PASOK compete and bet not on who creates the greatest good, but on who causes the least evil in the country. It is one of them deaf dialogues at a time when they have handed over the keys to the foreign factor and the homeland has really gone bankrupt and the vast majority of the people are suffering. You don't make any retreat, and you don't seek any kind of understanding, so that we can all try and get this place ahead. Of course, in the conscience of the people all the gentlemen, Papandreou, Samaras, Venizelos, Tsipras and Kammenos, are the same guilty. To be fair, however, we must mention that, from all of the above, George Papandreou is the younger one who arrested the idea of the memorials, perhaps even wrote the manual with the instructions for the use, and the one who opened the ferry door and invited the "courts" of the IMF, the loan sharks and all these chefs to come to Greece. The rest of you, of course, simply took on, always in order and in order, to open the main door, the window, the moon, and even the basement. We, the Members of the Central Association, of course understand what it means to our country to be a member of the Eurozone and the European Union. There are certainly rules that need to be complied with. I'm sure mistakes must be paid, and the debts must be repaid. Of course, it also raises a lot of discussion about whether the tragic mistakes of our governments and the irresponsible policies of the previous 40 years have been guided by foreigners and whether they should be loaded by the people for the next 10 generations. However, we cannot accept that in a united Europe of 2016, without wars and with many opportunities for prosperity for all Europeans, the solutions that serve us and you reproduce are as follows: One and a half million unemployed, the closed hundreds of thousands of micro-enterprises, the working conditions of the gallery, half of the children going to school, the tragic hunger wages and the 400 euro pensions, the inability of hospital treatment, due to a lack of basic medicines and materials, consumer prices at heights and constant appreciations. The foreign funds to wait for the green light of SYRIZA - ANEL government to get home to every householder. Constantly new and larger taxes on property and non-existent incomes. The nonexistent structures of social solidarity, the shrinking of development productive potential, the intense concern among new couples, or even the refusal to create a family and to have children in these circumstances. That is to say, even God’s blessing does not allow us to be accepted by the athemophobics! Which country reminds you of all this? But, of course, Venezuela. Country model and earthly paradise of SYRIZA and its executives, where everyone swims in oil, where one minister of Madour wants to become a teacher, high school master, school chief, even an archbishop, the other wants to become a canalarch, the third to become a banker, the fourth commands growth to come and the prices to fall. Does that remind you of you? Everyone remembers that last year, under pressure from the country's exit from the European Union and the euro area, our capital controls are afflicting us and almost wholeheartedly the House gave you a green light. But it was a simple green light, it wasn't a white check to do anyone's beam. Whatever they gave you last year, we take it back this year by voting against this draft law, because we consider it to be a product of incompetence, licenses and supposedly negotiation. In any case, you in your government, SYRIZA - ANEL, you may be afraid to stand up, but because it is never too late to repent, think that all together or at least most, it is easier to do it and stand as an unbroken wall and an unresolved political world, defending this people in elementary terms. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I shall be coming to an end. Thank you very much. We have often proposed to agree on five, ten basic things all together and implement them in a few years' time. If there is even the slightest hope to recover, to see positive growth and to reduce unemployment, this will be done by the real economy and the private sector, by the innovation of the initiatives of young professionals. That's our proposal. In closing, I mean, we don't want to fool anyone. We just want to work together, in a way that leaves a mark of perspective. Because even the Greeks had hope: the Germans had lost the war and liberation came. Expectation that even in those dark years seemed reasonable. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, the Germans do not always win. Can you today, gentlemen of the government, give the Greek people a corresponding hope? I doubt it. All you give is voter promises. We have voted against in principle and we will be placed on the articles in the relevant vote. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u59	Good. Before we move on, ladies and gentlemen, because I believe that Parliament in some things should not be dived and because I am sure that I represent what I say, if not the whole, the overwhelming majority of colleagues, I think we should condemn the vandalism of the heroine Lella Karayannis. Lela Karayannis was first executed by the Germans in possession and for the second time yesterday by the “unknown strangers”. Thank you. We shall now proceed as follows: Mr Skourletis will take the floor. Mr President, I would like to inform you that you too will suffer a slight reduction in your time, such as colleagues. Immediately thereafter, Mr Loverdos has asked the other parliamentary representatives to speak because he is in the committee of inquiry. Mr. Maddash has told me he will speak last. Mr. Teddy, if you'd like to take the floor then. We will be going through the procedure, three colleagues and one parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, won't another Minister speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Skourletis has been asking for the floor so far. Mr. Tsakalotos is not here right now, and Mr. Katrugalos is because he has to present some articles. I'm talking about the three people in charge, who is Mr. Chakalotos...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, you will allow me to wait a little while for the ministers. I'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u63	Good. Okay. I have to ask in turn. You, if you don't want to, go back. Mr. Skourletis, instead of eighteen minutes Mrs. Christodoulopoulos gave me ten minutes. But because I heard you didn't speak to the committee, I'm going to take you up a little bit of time in fifteen minutes, but at fifteen and one you're going to be down on the Step. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I'd have to suffer the haircut myself. Besides, it's the thing. Ladies and gentlemen, by following the debate as it develops, I think that in the end concepts, phrases have lost their meaning, because no more arguments are being exchanged, even though answers are being given. There are no retaliations on the basis of a counter-project, but they are made entirely false, such as these lies, which have ended up in public debate, public debate, monitoring them by the media and have intensified in recent months for good reasons, which you know and are related to changes in the media field. Of course, at least, we are talking here on equal terms. We all have the same time, and it is something that is not happening, you know, gentlemen of the Media Response, not because our people, the representatives of the government and the party, have no time, but because since this morning performers of contracts have been attacking, which has never been done before in the past decades in this country. And it is the attack of interlocutory, which undermines democracy itself. Ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to begin by making three necessary clarifications in relation to the content of the bill. First of all, the transfer to the superstition doesn't mean the public loses its property. Public property remains, but that's where it goes to take advantage. And that is a basic difference in relation to the solutions that had been chosen in the past. Secondly, the transfer does not mean privatisation. It's been heard against the coroner and you mean you don't understand it. Thirdly, that these assets are not guaranteed by the country's loans. These, of course, you mean to constantly ignore them in the debate, as you do not understand that this fund came from last year's negotiation and was a blockade to privatisation policy, to politics, which was your only proposal, and I refer to the previous government of Samaras - Venizelos. You know, we inherited the bankruptcy you brought to the country. We inherited social catastrophe. Unfortunately, you know, in the states you cannot disown heritage and we are forced today to manage what you are responsible for and led to that by a large majority of the world. What you did not understand is that this agreement, unlike the two previous ones, last summer had some open fields for negotiation. It wasn't a closed deal in all its parts. And these enabled us to win some things, as we have some in front of us. So I have seen these days and I have heard the most popular Mr Georgiadis yesterday at the edge of his speech in a crisis of honesty to the Minister of Finance: "Well, Minister, while you are, you say that they will not privatise businesses. And what if you go?’ I really understand that. If a government of Mitsotakis is Georgian Minister of Finance, not just will everything be privatised, but so much more will come in! I honestly admit that. It was the only truthful thing that he heard in this Chamber so far. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill we are debating today, in particular on energy issues, the Greek energy market is actually being reorganised and a large number of changes have been made since September in this area. In essence, we are building what we call the'single European energy market'. We are in line with European rules in the direction of opening up the market. There has never been so much happened at institutional level in the energy sector as it has been in recent years. I'll remind you. First of all, the bill that we voted on just before the closure of the House on the new framework for renewable energy, an attempt to limit distortions in relation to the filtration of renewable energy sources in Greece, which has indeed led to great anomalies. One of them is the deficit of the special account of renewable energy sources, of the UN, which we are trying to deal with, so that things can be balanced at some point. Secondly, PPC IPTO IPTO's ownership segregation, which is today a different sample of scriptures in relation to the networks and ensures public control of the networks. I can inform you that this project, which is currently being launched and progressing satisfactorily - we are in the second phase of the competition - is something that is being watched with very special interest by many political forces today in Europe. We have established the NOME auctions against'small PPC', a transitional mechanism which will help open the market. We have implemented cutaneousity, which is a policy for strengthening the domestic industry. We abolished the excise duty on natural gas. We voted on the draft law on energy savings. This was the first bill last November after the September elections. We have incorporated the international conventions on offshore hydrocarbons. At the same time we are implementing the great and strategic work of the TAP, which is being carried out in our country at an unprecedented rate, and it will be the first piece to be delivered in relation to other countries, whether European or on our own initiative. We are conducting a multi-dimensional energy policy that results and assures with certainty that the country is indeed becoming a regulator in the wider region and is transformed into a regional energy hub. At the same time, the Public Power Corporation at this time of transition designs and moves forward in a strategy of partnerships that will not lead it to shrinking, but to strengthening it within the new landscape. Today, energy as well as the economy, especially in Europe, knows no borders. We all have to understand that. We are therefore interested in businesses, public authorities - because that is why we are interested - not to go in and be competitive. And I do not understand - and I address the JRC's colleagues - when I heard you before you went through this. So what do you want? Do you want the State to exercise, where it exercises, in those areas that must intervene in business and enter? Should it not be a different sign of writing, with the protection of the rights and working conditions, but, at the same time, intervening in critical sectors of the economy and society, ensuring the public character of these businesses? Why do we get past this? Haven't we come to a conclusion any more from the great historical experience we have on the Left? The question I would like to address to colleagues in Commodities is this: Really, what were you planning in the field of energy and coming here and asking questions and swinging our fingers? I'll tell you what you were planning. You planned the privatisation of 66% of IPTO. We canceled it. So take a red line, Mr Varvitsiotis, because you asked about red lines. You planned "little PPC". We canceled it. Take a second red line, then. There's 17%. Your choice. You took it to the TIAD. So I ask you all, and I would like one to one of the parties' representatives, other than the JRC, because I know his position, to tell us here: do you want to sell the UEFA 17%? The leadership of the Ministry of Energy and the Environment has been placed. Do you want to? Well, take it. And Mr Tsakalotos and the government, and we all know what our aim is. The Greek people know that because it was the order that we received in September. And on the basis of that mandate, we will be judged. So say, "Don't hide."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u65	To Chaakatos, you should tell them, not to counterpopulation. He's signing, not the Opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u66	So say, and don't hide, because all this time you've been with the IPTO and the "little PPC" with the lenders. You did not support this front in defending the public character of the networks. You were across the street again. Because you have lost your chance at this moment to formulate the slightest alternative to a specific proposal. In one thing you are clear in defending the interlocutory. We have seen this recently and you have not understood that when the current government says there will be laws, they will apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u67	You mean the Minister's best man?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u68	And that was yesterday. Law for everyone, not law for lawlessness, not for the regime that you have excruciated, interoperable and opaque. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are other issues that I would like to hear your opinion on energy. How about DEPA, the company involved in the Greek-Bulgarian pipeline and wants to participate and support the projects respectively at the navigating gas station in Alexandroupolis? To implement your proposal, which was the total amount of the general government in 65%, that you had spent it in HIADE, to be privatised and to have zero? Pan-European Originality: zero Greek State in the field of natural gas!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u69	That's what you signed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u70	So that's what you need to talk about. So in these, at least or defend the previous choices with honesty or do your self-criticism. Anyway, say something. So that was the concept of privatization that you had, indifferent to production in Greece, without question bringing down criteria for what the place really needs, for what the place really needs. All you've been doing these months either in the first phase of governance or in the second phase is what we call undermining in every way, in every way, in every way, in all means, lies, insanity, strategic embarrassment. It's all that people understand very well. It understands them very well and despite all this massive hysteria, this washing provided by your friends, the canalarchs, who see you sinking the ground under their feet, yet the world appears mature and recognizes the sincere effort of this government, with an unselfish, moral advantage, with moral burden, values in difficult situations, trying to draw a different path and this recognition is us that fills us with strength to move on. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to another proposal in relation to the energy companies which is a legacy we have found from you. And since we cannot, as we have said, renounce the legacy, we also have to fight the corresponding battle to defend the interests. Really, what is your proposal for the ELPEs? The Greek State participates there with a 35% and 42% percentage of the private shareholder. You've been on the cash register. We have two years that the administration of SYRIZA's best friends has achieved a record of winnings. Should we privatize that, too? To leave the public in this critical area? What do you think? That's all you have to say. You can no longer hide.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Pierchiola, tell Mr. Pierchiola. You signed them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA has not just come to manage the implementation of the last summer's agreement, although I told you that she has open areas of conflict, negotiation in some of which we have won some things, in some of the other things maybe not. Do not ask us for certainty in the difficult conditions we are in, because we are fully aware that the success of our efforts depends on and depends on the European framework, above all. That is why you see something that you cannot understand, initiatives such as the South Summit, which aim to change the relationship within Europe, so that we can make it possible, to have a different course in our own country. So we have not just come to implement this agreement, even with a management that is held up, is characterised by a good view of things, which you did not have. We want to do a lot more. This is the mandate we have from the Greek people and you can be sure that we will try to do so to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Varvichiotis, what are you asking for?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, by name the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u76	He didn't say by name.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u77	By name, he asked Mr Varvitsiotis for answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Varvichiotis, listen, don't interrupt me. I will give you the floor for a minute, and I will never give the floor again, because if the ministers are in love and every Member of Parliament stands up and says 'personal', the Members who have been written will never speak. Well, because he asked the question three times and you're rapporteur, you have the floor for a minute to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u79	I want to say two things to the Minister. Let's tell Mr. Pichiorla of the GOD to exclude the companies he said from the list of imminent demilitarisations. What administration do we have? You've had it for two years. You're negotiating. Why aren't you excluded? On the list, however, of the GOD is to be privatized, and the EEAS and the EEAS and 30% of the Greek oil. You want to know something about PPC? So as you agreed in the memorandum, to reduce 50% of its customers, to reach 50% of the Greek population and 50% of production, without taking a single euro, it shows how wrong it was. Because if you had continued the selection of "little" PPC, they would already have flowed close to 4 billion to PPC's fund. It would not be a company with such serious financial problems that in your administration it has acquired about 2 billion unpaid bills and today PPC is in danger. Minister, we have a clear position. The point is that you systematically try to distort reality. We know your internal problems, please contact your fellow ministers not to sign the privatizations they sign. We know the reactions you had for the Greek and still passed. Now let's see when you'll react and how you'll react to the upcoming water privatizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u80	Good. Mr. Loverdos, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u81	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u82	Minister, listen. You've always asked in the opinion...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u83	No, no, Mr. President. One bad millions are coming up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u84	First of all, I didn't give you the floor and sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u85	I beg you courteously.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u86	Good. Please also kindly sit down and if I give you the floor, you're up. And don't think about interrupting me again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u87	I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u88	Don't think about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u89	But give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u90	When you're falling in love...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u91	I'm not interrupting you. I address the floor. I'm requesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u92	I'm talking, Mr. Skourlet. When the President-in-Office speaks, the question is to listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u93	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u94	You have addressed ten times and said 'I ask you', 'I ask you', 'I ask you'. That is why I said to Mr Varvitsiotis, the rapporteur, 'I give you the floor once'. What does that mean? That if five more people stand up and answer, will you answer all five? And will colleagues speak tomorrow? After the roll-call vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u95	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u96	Well, for a minute, for equivalency, and don't ask another time. The government doesn't ask the opposition. Here, you have the floor. I put you two minutes because I gave so much to Mr. Varvitsiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u97	I could use other ways and say 'on personal grounds'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u98	Okay. The 'other ways', with old boats in the Bureau, are dealt with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Varvitsiotis, you had a chance to tell us what you're talking about selling 17%. You told us different things, so you're still hiding. As far as PPC is concerned, we, although we have received the footprint of the austerity policies that you have implemented in recent years and have led to these events, for the first time with the moves we have made and the adjustments of the thirty-six instalments, managed to set up over one billion today and serve, and for the first time after five years the absolute number of debts to PPC is falling. At the same time something else has happened, which your friends are not saying. For the first time, we have the 15% reduction of consistency, and this is the world, the partisan, the family leader, business sees them paying less bills. This is the result of our own interventions. And you'll see that things are going well, because we and target have and above all we're doing our work in clear terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor. The first three colleagues, Mr Christos Karagiannidis, Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides, Mr Antonis Gregos, will be prepared. If there is no parliamentary representative who wants to speak - Mr Dendias, for example, said that he will wait for the other Minister to speak later - we will proceed to Mr Christophilopoulos and Mr Katsotis. Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u101	Minister, do you have the courage here today at the National Representation, after what has been done, to report to the broadcasting landscape? That's nerve! There is no institution, institution - not ad hoc appointed ombudsmen who have a great deal of responsibility - administrative or judicial responsibility in the European Union and in its Member States and in Greece to cover the misery that they have seen daylight with your behaviour in the media. That is why you referred to it. My purpose is to talk about the draft law, also making my general political references. Mr Yiannis Maniatis, a specialist on the topics of truth which the previous Minister has raised, covered the issues, in particular Articles 1 and 2 of the draft law, which is his fifth. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, a more general position, a concern addressed to you in the form of questions of no rhetoric. Fellow Members of the majority, and not of the government, have you realised that you are confronted with the basic truth of your life, with your previous self? My question, which is not a rhetoric at all, is not about the answers you will give me, but about yourself, as I have said here many times and to your voters. What are you? What have you turned yourself into? To unadulterated handlers of what your government recommends to maintain its leading team in power? Are you aware of the enormous problems that arise in you as political subjects, about what your Prime Minister and you yourself, most of them, the overwhelming majority, in the years of your opposition, when the current Prime Minister himself described as the worst terms, the most unacceptable conditions, set by his opponents outside politics, such as "German germans", "Tsolakoglou", "Pinochet" in this Chamber? Your Prime Minister, not anyone else. Your Prime Minister himself. You who, with rabies hatred, have caused the separations that you have caused with passion, passionate politicians who have diverted the opponent to put him out of politics, do you people themselves not confront the truths of your life, when today you say what you say, not only when you talk, but when you react from underneath your colleagues who remind you of your past? Corruptions and dishonesty were your practice in opposition. And did you forget that you promised the citizens that you would rule otherwise? You didn't promise to rule better, but you'll rule otherwise. And I'm leaving out that you're the modern Midas, from the backwards, who's making it coal, not gold. I'm leaving it with reference to governmental skills. Let us go to your great opposition, to your words on the issues that today are from the government before you to vote on them. Let's go see what you said in August 2014 about the TDIAD: "Earth of Corruption and Interface, a tool of the Troika" and notice "one of the biggest scandals in the European history of the TIAD". Now, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you have put in place a public body and a foreign office, which has been entrusted to it for a hundred years with all the public property. And you come here to make smart in your disputes with New Democracy? You gave it to him for a century and you will be recorded in Greek political history too negatively. It will be said for decades and it will be written in the books of the next generations that there has been a Greek government that has allocated all the public property, for a century, to a fund under the administration of foreigners. "To dismantle the sinner TIADED." Take note of what Tsipras said: 'This is what we will do'. You saw how he did it. Also, in a timely question by the current Prime Minister: "The operation of the TIAD is in breach of the Constitution and the laws." In these words you went to the government. And today, with this bill, you are delegating and everything that you did not assign in June. With the booklets you shared, you said: not PPC, not HYDAP, not the waters. These are excluded from the excesses of the century that you voted in June. What you left out then, to make fun of your MPs and to exaggerate the opposition arguments, you are bringing them today. And, ladies and gentlemen, when the Collegiate Members speak, do they cry out? What are these, modern lobsters? Do they not remember what they said in June about most of the EKOs, which are now in this draft law and which are being transferred to the upper limit of one century? The epitome of political amoralism! I repeat, the epitome of political amoralism! Why has it changed, ladies and gentlemen, and the sinful TIAD has become an essential instrument of economic development? Are the "silam" swimming pools you are baptized in, are they of your chairs? That's what people say. He's probably right. Think about it. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, is it good, is it worth it, from the alpha to the omega, and be so politically inconsistent, for a parliamentary term or for a ministerial service, or - to remove them, do not anyone insult - to keep in power a government that does other than what he says? The Prime Minister himself in October 2013 said about PPC, about PPC: "Beware, SYRIZA does not recognize the divestment of public social goods, such as water and a left government will overthrow it". And listen to the other sentence: "Those who are involved in the sale of public wealth will answer, not only to the people but also to justice." What's that, the prelude to your special court? What were you thinking at that time and with what were you threatening? And what are you doing today? Your words, your words, - not ours - refer you to justice. And you wanted to have a water referendum. Why didn't you do the water referendum? In the overcrowded one-century, all this is going through. Minister, you are very rhetorical in relation to PPC, you were talking about the cancellation of any privatisation plan of PPC. The Greek people, your voters, saw the exact opposite. Power, authority and only power! You were very aggressive. Remember a mild colleague. Mr. Amanatidis, now State Secretary for Foreign Affairs. He was talking to the TE, speaking in maternal Macedonia, to his voters or to the people who listened to him and told them about the Egnatia Street: "A concession of this kind is harmful to the public interest. And if the Greek State is made public, it will be deprived of substantial public revenues." Today what does the Undersecretary say? That the concession of the Egnatia Road is beneficial? Look, ladies and gentlemen, The mentor of the lie is the Prime Minister. He's your mentor. In Greece no longer calls for a liar. We have a liar. The prime Prime Minister, the best student of Theodore Diligiannis in the 19th century, who even at the inauguration of Olympia Road, of a positive energy, did not find a word to say about the previous ones. Not a single word, like the work of the SYRIZA government in the seventeen months that were then in power. A word! He also lacks elementary political courtesy. And what doesn't? Lagism, demagogy, political demagogicism, irresponsibility, which it has promoted in the highest field of development. What are his successes? The three successive election wins in six months. What does that look like? A complete lack of modesty in the consumption of politics. The first time you're on the wave, you do everything you can to confirm your wins and pass the winner's message. When you're upstairs. Not when you're downstairs. Because when you're down with so many lies you've told, one is your future: go further. Example of political neoplasm at the expense of the country. A classic example of a lack of philosophy of political consumption. For Mr Kammenos, I do not want to say much. But because it has been the barbaric and philanthropist leader of the opposition of all times, of my own political course at least, I would like to tell him that this evening he will come here to vote for the positive measures adopted in June for young professionals. To clarify what was in existence, that government's alibi to the barbaric measures which it introduced to the House with its leader in this specific matter, the relevant Minister for Labour. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, will you vote on Rule 1? Rule 1, which I said in the morning, clashes out what you were finding as a refuge in your inner and outside Parliament. What were you talking about? ‘Yes, the insurance. But it is a check of the times, but for young doctors, engineers, lawyers, a period of adaptation." You're defying her. How about the small owners, not over ten rooms, in the tourism area? Transitional periods for their burdens. All this, you get it back. My measure, Minister of Labour, for the fictitious years you change it. The 15% discount, you make it 2% per year. He who buys a fictitious year is obviously not a particularly rich man, apparently has needs. You'll vote at night that from 15%, it recognizes a year at 2%. Congratulations! Rule 1, on which you were yelling earlier when Members of the opposition spoke, clarifies exactly what you were voting on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u102	Finish, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u103	I shall conclude, Mr President, on my last point. In Parliament's debates on the big issues, you have the first-time spectre of the Maduro left. Every week, however, your left side is crushed in the daily life of your politics and the Maduro side is oversimplified. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority of SYRIZA, you are worthy of the common fortune that you will have with the Prime Minister of the country of which you are also worthy of support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u104	As a parliamentary representative has not asked for the floor, we will be going to the first 50 years. Mr. Karayannides, Mr. Kyriazides, Mr. Gregos, Mrs. Christophilopoulos and Mr. Christos Katsotis. If there is no parliamentary representative then, I will give Mr Katrugalo the floor, if he wishes, so that he does not wait any longer. Of course, not at the same time as the three relevant ministers. So let's start with Mr. Karayannides. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. There are two ways to speak in Parliament. One is the logic of arguments and counter-problems, i.e. their war positions, and the second is the logic of irrationality. Since yesterday you have followed a logic of irrationality. And I'm explaining: "We're privatising everything." It dominates this in today's debate in Greece and especially in the media that are absolutely yours. Privatisations are political issues of will and political planning. Thatcher, for example, in the 1980s in Britain did not need any superstition to privatize the whole universe. The same happened with countries of Western Europe and Eastern Europe after the 1990s, where no special fund was needed to sell everything out. You didn't need a special fund to sell out public banks, OTE and OPAP. Or did we forget about that? So I say, if you want to privatize, it doesn't stop you from an excess or something. It's a question of how you combine politics. And yesterday, and all the previous days, it has been formulated in the most official way that the CPOs entering the U.S. submarine are not being privatised. It is not even described in the law that created this excess. However, in the sense of irrationality, it is called and repeated. This fund, too, has been said and written in the law that it is a public fund. Therefore, the ECHO and everything else that goes through under the administration of the public authorities. The second argument of the irrationality: Suppose everything for a hundred years. There's nowhere inside - if you've read the law, because if you haven't read it, okay - something like that. It says the law within: "The company serves a special public purpose and cannot be subordinated either to it or to its assets". We'll say that and we'll talk about it again. Okay, we understand that for reasons of opposition criticism you will say yours, but the reality is that. We can't question her. Can we, on the basis of this article, discuss that this is not a mortgage? Third unreasonable: the water and the electricity will be dived through this superstition. I say again, if it were our will, it would have happened without that story. And the water must exaggerate the decision of the CFC. Even if you want sometime when you become a government - if you ever become a government - to sell them, you'll get judicially stuck in that story. So why do we have a conversation that doesn't have a base? Why don't you say some arguments that make sense? Why are you not trying to strike or criticize the government for things that are wrong or that have not done them properly or are they defective and we keep talking about the same thing and the same? The incumbents came here yesterday and I'll take the example of building infrastructure. It has even been heard that we will give schools, hospitals, courts, prisons. Do you have - I say again - read what is described in the law created by the superstition? Because building infrastructure is a TEC, which manages the construction of these buildings. Where does it suggest that schools, hospitals and prisons will be sold? Where do you get that conclusion from? Would you say a reasonable argument? And the president of the "Building Infrastructures" workers told you that these "Building Infrastructures" have a loan of 800 million and 30 million demands from contractors. Is that why you will find something to say, answer this criticism? Who immersed or charged the "Building Infrastructures" ex-UK, DENANOM and goes by saying so? So I won't go to OSE, PPC, U.S.H.D. What exactly have all these years been done with the administrations you appointed? Are you happy with the last forty years of operation of these ECHOs? Are you happy, as the Minister of Finance said yesterday, that every minister coming in the 1980s and 1990s appointed the entire village and its entire prefecture in this service? That's the administration you want? 'Cause so far with what you're saying, you're proving. You do not want administrations to restructure these ECHOs, which will set out a strategic plan for what we want from these ECHOs and which will protect the public interest so that these social goods can be distributed qualitatively and at lower prices. So should we talk about this and not about the myths you've been trying to build this whole time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u106	I would also like to thank you for the consistency of time, Mr Karayannides. Mr. Kyriazidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. The previous colleague, Drama, made references. Because it will then be disproved with what the government will legislate and has legislated, we must also have self-protection. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill under discussion, the faces of hypocrisy and deception of the electorate fall, they fall sharply by stewarding and by congratulating them and the delusions that some have had. The mockery ends with the signature of your ministers and in a moment with your positive vote in the bill, all of this ends. You are entering, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, increasingly deeper and deeper into the memorial policy that you have reported in and out of Parliament in the past few years. And not only is that, but you are being multipliered by the arrangements you are bringing to the vote on the measures taken by the previous governments, which you have called treacherous and which you have called on every occasion. Really, where did your Prime Minister and President's call to the Thessalonians to vote 'no' in the privatisation of HNDGS during the informal referendum held on 18 May 2014 along with the self-government elections? What do you have to say now to the coordinating body of the citizens and bodies 'SOS or water'? Where did the first victory go until Mr. Tsipras described it as having organised this referendum? Or should I remind you of his statement that in Bolivia, then the Morales government emerged from a protest movement against water privatisation? Now what do you have to say? I guess Morales and his arguments are on their way, not to say hell. Really, as far as PPC is concerned, where did your pastor go? Then you said that PPC sells it, not the Memorandum, nor the European Union. What are you talking about today? Is SYRIZA selling it? Or should we forget that it was alleged by a mistake that Mr.4389/2016 entered? Now, by mistake, are water companies and PPC entering the Annex? But you will tell some of you that there is no direct issue of immediate privatisation. And because you are going to say so in advance, ladies and gentlemen, Article 201(2) of Law No4389/2016 on the possibility of privatising and selling these assets or related shares to third parties, or are we forget that? Rather you forget, as we forget and should not forget, I think in a few days the deadline for the equivalent measures has expired, in order to avoid the freezing of the wage maturities of servants in the Security Body and the Armed Forces. On 22 May, Mr Ministers and Members of this House brought the relevant amendment. The Minister of National Defence on June 28, 2016 answers a question that the equivalents will come to the Greek Parliament until September 30, 2016. Today, we have 27 September. We expect in three days that they will come the equivalent as far as the freezing of wage scores, the maturity of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies are concerned. In fact, measures were eventually sent to the Ministry of Finance by the Ministry of Defence or if they were lost on the street, because Mr. Juliarakis replied that he still hasn't received them. Really, what about the Ministry of Public Order keeping a fish silence? Will we ultimately have two categories of military and security forces' wage bills? They're protesting today outside the Department of Defense, because that's where you're finally going. Of course, you are creating a special dimension here. What about the payroll? Will he finally reform it with the further cuts? What about the retrospectives of the Council of State and its decisions? Are they going to the bells? The Minister of National Defence would resign and would not participate in the government. Is he still going to stay? And, of course, here's our objection. The New Democracy strengthened and implemented the decision of the Council of State in 50%. And you complained he wouldn't give the whole thing. The Armed Forces and the Security Corps are waiting for this commitment. We believe you won't deny them one more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Cryazides, you've been impeccable in time. He has the floor from the Step or from his position - where he wants - from the Golden Dawn Mr Antony Gregos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, the government has proved that everything he says is a huge lie. We told the Greek people before the elections. You prove it every day. It was really cynical, the confession of Minister Tsakalotou in the committee. And of course SYRIZA, like New Democracy and PASOK, are extreme neoliberal parties. We have heard some graphics, which remind me of a joke, from the SYRIZA rapporteur. We have heard of transparency, of a stable regime, of a serious negotiation, of red lines. Mr Stathakis told us a moment ago: "I am glad that SYRIZA exists to organise health and education." These are jokes that do not cause laughter, but anger and anger to the Greek people. The new Republic's rapporteur for collective responsibility also said jokes. That's all, not in here. I also heard about patriotic positions of PASOK, the PASOK of Simitis and the rest. The Greek people must finally understand that SYRIZA, New Democracy and PASOK are exactly the same thing: the same positions, the same policies, the same lies. In the polynomial draft submitted and followed up by the former adopted by itself and by its willing companions, the Government concludes the sale of the proceeds of the non-ECB’s or undertakings in the previous May. This is to get the EUR 2.8 billion dose. Even this one, however, is not certain that it has been ensured despite the literal assignment of land and water, since the partners do not agree either with the composition of the Board of Supervisors of the Disease Fund or with the new administrations of the banks that are no longer Greek. It is therefore very likely that, despite the new concessions of wealth, new measures will be called for in order to grant the dose to be released by 31 October. It is also useful to hear the subordinates who are forced to suffer these new measures, that from 2.8 billion to 1.7 billion will cover government debts due and only 1.1 billion will be allocated to the state budget. This means that, once again, these measures are not taken in order to stimulate the economy and to put money on the market - as falsely claimed for five years, both the New Democracy that has been voting for it all and the current government - but to close holes in debts that it has in the meantime created the public. The government's development dream is not developmental and it will certainly remain a dream for those who expected from the new tough measures that there will be some stimulus to the market. The creditors who are fully familiar with the Greek data do not only disburse large instalments anymore, but what they sign and the government are controlled at every step of the way. Therefore, the Government of the'superior negotiation' of Tsipras and Kammenos is treated worse than those countries in which creditors had established colonies two and three centuries ago, with the exception, of course, that they had retained a minimum national sovereignty and a subtle national dignity. On the contrary, the Left Government issued for ninety years every trace of national sovereignty, since it cannot only legislate for details, but has to take back what it had done just four months ago. The fact is that all favourable regulations of the Katrugalo Law are being disbursed, increasing the contributions of hundreds of thousands of people insured from the beginning of 2017, thus zeroing the benefit from the one-off acquisition of fictitious years in which the government had invested the social profile. In particular, the multiplier plan fully fulfils the claims of creditors to remove all exceptions that allow lower health contributions and reduce the discount for the payment of plausible years of insurance. This, in practice, means that, completely inconsistent with what the Minister has said at times, farmers, young scientists - up to five years - doctors, lawyers, pharmacists, engineers are losing the discounts in the three-year transitional period laid down by the famous Katrugalou law on health contributions. All these overthrows, among other things, are the best proof that the legislative initiative does not belong to any Katorugalos, except to creditors and confirms the absolute impossibility of the funds to respond to any provision to the insured or future pensioners. Albeit will not, of course, remain in the tourist sector, as the rapporteur, Mr Karakostas, told you. At the same time, the multi-brand plan transfers to the Central Disease Fund and other DCIs, as promised by your Government to remain outside, such as EIF, EEAS and PPC. In fact, in relation to PPC, 34% of PPC is allocated, since 17% is already in the hands of TIADE. It is also characteristic that the Greek Weapons Industry has not only been excluded from the Fund - as the Minister responsible for National Defence has proudly stated - as a strategic operation for the Greek defence industry, but - on the contrary - it is involved in it without any exception as if it were another ECHO. And that's too dangerous. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We are absolutely convinced that these prerequisites will not be the last, as the lenders in what you call "negotiation", have found their best ally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u110	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u111	I shall conclude, Mr President. However, everyone knows that in these lame times a unique reminder for all of you is that to us Greeks and homeland we deserve a better approach, a better perspective, another course in the future, a future that only we can guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u112	Mrs Eyie Christophilopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for a year and a half the absolute mutation of SYRIZA has taken place. "Where were you young enough to say I was going to be someone else." This is specifically devoted to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. We live in the country of SYRIZA - ANEL, Minister, where the MATs instead of dealing with the "bugs" are hitting workers, hotel crews outside your ministry. They're hitting unrelentingly. Was this supposed to be what happened in Thessaloniki and elsewhere? Should the "bugs" be in church and nothing happens today, with the first protest of workers, to beat them up, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u114	Where did that happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u115	In front of the Ministry of Labour. You, Mr. Katrugale, have made a political career in the Constitution, in the square of indignant people, in workers and pensioners. And I call on you - if you have the guts - to go to Syntagma Square today, to talk to pensioners and workers and to tell them that the big fund you made them, EKKA, today is still mortal, dies before birth because it has a deficit of EUR 2.9 billion and you will be donating it from the AGEAN, from the youth fund - you will get from the young people! - so it doesn't collapse. And tell them, Minister, about the abolition of the CSCE, which your government proudly negotiated. Tell them about the subsidiary cuts of over 40%, when you confessed, and then you put your Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, go to IDU and tell people that this is only about 10% of the pensioners - listen to me! - when all pensioners are affected today. And today all pensioners are affected not only because you have reduced the tax, or have put them in the increased health contribution. Of the two million or six hundred thousands of retired people in the country affected, one million thousand have suffered the reductions I mentioned. And then, Minister, on the one hand and on the other. So tell them that, with this bill as small, pitiful discount, our "great negotiator" had achieved, Prime Minister Tsipras would do, you are voting for it. And you have your parliamentary group to raise hands as good children and to be humiliated, Minister. You are excelling your party and your parliamentary group. Because Parliament's humiliation is and you know it as a lawmaker. Yesterday I referred to Kirchman, Minister, who said, "Three corrections of the legislature and all legal libraries are being broken." You haven't crashed a library. You've collapsed the country's libraries with the diggings. I'm voting, I'm voting! This bill, therefore, contains the removal of all small reductions in the acquisition of fictitious years to civil servants, private employees, traders and free traders. From the 15% discount you negotiated, we get it to 2%. Did the troika fight you, Minister? And you are now fighting the Group of the European People's Party and telling them, 'vote!' And not only that, but also the discounts in the first five years of scientists and free professionals, and you get these back. And of course, you are targeting a dynamic sector that is the small tourist accommodation and you are going to the OAU status instead of the OGA status. Examples like Mykonos and Santorini have been mentioned. Aren't you telling me, is all Greece Mykonos and Santorini? The small tourist accommodations in both the inland and on many small islands, on the islands of the barren line, why should they be placed? To die? Have you targeted all creative Greece, Greece that produces, Greece that is trying to stand up, the young people who either in the mountains or on the coast have set up such small tourist accommodations and are trying to survive? Just as you hurt the winemakers and small brewers, you have targeted Greece. You have nothing to worry about but social equality, the "Madourisation" of the country and the service of the day-to-day, but of course of the day-to-day canals! Instead of one, the other one's coming. Instead of Calogritsa, Savvides. It's not coming out, Minister. It's not coming out, ladies and gentlemen of the government. And as far as Members are concerned, I say again: colleagues, think. How many times are you going to vote? Your conscience tells you what? Is that what the party says? Are we going on the line or are we going with our conscience? Think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u116	Because Mr Christos Katsotis is not in the Chamber, and I don't want to delete him, I invite Mrs. Marcos to step down. Then it will take the floor - as we have said - Mr Carras, because the first 50 is being completed. Then the Minister will take the floor, if he wishes, otherwise we will go to Mr Katsotis - I would ask his colleagues to notify him - and Mr Saridis to close the turn of the first octades and Mr Dannelly. Then we'll normally go to the colleagues every five minutes. Here, Mrs Marcus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the government returns to the crime scene. It brings this bill to the House for its vote, making it about the Chinese, as if nothing had happened, while the place is dragging, the incomes are falling apart, while investments are not being made and exports are retreat. And all that under the size of terrible overtaxation. The government of amnesty and amnesty is acting like nothing happens! In this respect, on May 18, 2014, Mr Famelos, now a SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, posts a photo on the polling of the referendum on PHY with a caption: "We do not vote NO in the privatisation of PHY. Water is socially good!' One year at the latest, it is photographed with the T-shirt of his volunteers "Save water", as a supporter and volunteer from the first day of the anti-private movement. In fact, the report states that the present ones remembered, pirates, George Papandreou and his picture with a T-shirt "Not Sell" in 2008 in the first attempt to sell the NSATH. Oh, what irony! I'm putting down the photographs for the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Catherine Markou, presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] On the same day, on May 18, 2014, Mr Mitafidis, MP today of SYRIZA and then candidate mayor with SYRIZA in Thessaloniki, reminded him in a statement that we were the rapporteurs and the protagonists of the referendum to prevent the privatisation of EKATH. I am making the statements by Mr Mitafidis on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Catherine Marcou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In May 2015, thirty one SYRIZA MPs - among them Mr Triantafyllidis and Mr Famelos - put a question about the restoration of constitutional legitimacy, about the reintroduction of shares in “ESDP S.A.” and “EEATH S.A.” by TEADED. I make the statement on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Catherine Marcou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The Prime Minister himself declared the days of the referendum on HNDDA, that privatization of HSY cannot stand in any way. "This country has laws, it has a constitution," said the Prime Minister. "No one can violate the laws and the Constitution," Mr. Tsipras continues. "I would take it one step further and tell you that no one can violate the will of the majority of citizens..." - Mr. Tsipras said at that time - "...nobody except one." We obviously meant the Prime Minister. Another referendum is thrown into the ballot of unusables. The popular verdict, which has been robbed in the most cynical way to manifest yourself to power, the people themselves, is just a tool for you, as it now appears. Within just two years we have spent "The water is a public good" in that "The water is about public good, yes, but it must also work on the market". In the intervening period, of course, you changed the president of HSY, appointing one of the pioneers of the “Save Water” movement, because the illusion of your intentions had to be complete. Where's this gentleman today? Why didn't he show up yesterday at the audience hearing? In September 2015, before the elections, in non paper of SYRIZA, you celebrated the reduction of privatisation from twenty-three to nine with the third - your own - memorandum, excluding from the list of NSAFs. But the lie has short feet. Eventually, no one explained why 74% of the EIF must go through the TIAD, where it currently belongs, in the new ultraviolet of ninety years, which is under the effective control of lenders. Since your intention is to sell or exploit - since you prefer it - only a minority package, why don't you transfer that percentage? Is this a move in line with the decision of the HR? What part of this bill ensures that the water remains public and socially good? I am mainly addressing the SYRIZA MPs: is the time for self-criticism and apology now? Will a Thessaloniki MP dare go up to Stepma and answer us or return to his daily life? Does he have the courage to say, "I made a mistake, I got carried away"? Has there been any casting left? All these years you have opposed every effort, every reform, representing the honorers of everything, showing the rest of them on the finger. You, the actors of the so-called moral advantage, unleashed your antimony demagogy, in which the fanaticism of "no" was cultivated, poisoning the political life of the country. And then, you carried out a shift in an unnatural way and with one single goal: The ruthless gang stays in power. I do not want to be a SYRIZA Member who is supposed to vote for what he was reacting to yesterday. But now it's become second nature to you. It doesn't even make any impression in the world anymore. But we said, nothing more matters, neither the reason nor the commitments. It is only power that is of great value to you. And on her altar you have sacrificed every ideology, every credibility, every dignity!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u118	Please finish, Mrs. Marcus.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u119	I would like thirty more seconds, Mr President. Have you realised that you will ever want to go home and will not be able? Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is not just or is not the measures in themselves, which, of course, have your own stamp. It is more the anger of the world, which you once ruthlessly used, poisoning him with antimony, demagogic lies, which you will now bathe in the most painful way. You'll drink the glass by the last drop. I am voting against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u120	The Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Three pieces are this bill. A piece is about pension-insurance issues, a piece is about energy and a little bit, in the end, it's about "TRAINOSE". So let's take it in turn. The first part, Article 1, cuts down, cuts down and restricts. Is the small 'cutter' here, that 'cutter' voted to start with 1 October 2016, if and since budgetary targets were not met and today we have a smaller 'cutter' among the poorest? Why am I saying that? Because it restricts, cuts, the discount that could be granted for the recognition of fictitious years to receive pensions from people who otherwise would not be able to establish a right. Fifteen percent is two. We don't understand, we don't have a study, we don't have calculations, to see what an undeniable need it imposed. Did the need for the new, large single insurance fund not come out and we have to look for money from other aspects? Possibly. A second issue to which I wish to stand is the well-known accommodation of the small islands, the small villages. They had a privileged one, I'd say it, or logical, if you like, insurance scheme by paying the low contributions of the OGA. Today we see that in the group of accommodations from five to ten rooms we have an equation with the general rule of the new insurance policy, so we have a burden on their insurance contributions. There was a lot of talk when we discussed the famous EFKA, whether it should be maintained for small villages, with a population of less than two thousand inhabitants, the right to that granted by legislation with population but also income criteria, and continue to fall within the OGA, so that the contributions they pay or if they would also be part of the contributions of the free traders are reduced. They joined the contributions of the free traders. Today, however, the issue is being revived and made up of time. Why? Because after the four months that passed since the vote on the new insurance policy - reform, I do not want to call it, it did not convince me that it was the reform that would give the country and, in particular, in the area of social security, so that we can safely say that the insurance system will become healthy - we are coming today and say that we have accommodation and they will also pay. I'll make a suggestion, Mr. Catrugale. Should we look at population criteria again in small areas and for freelance professionals and small accommodations? The criterion of the two thousand inhabitants has been abolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u122	It wasn't abolished. We've been talking about it ever since.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u123	Let me finish my thoughts and then you have time to answer. They were, however, integrated into the regime of the FYROM. So, today, do we have to see a population criterion smaller? I don't know whether it was abolished or not. For all free professionals working in small villages of one hundred, two hundred, three hundred inhabitants, should we maintain the low contributions of the OGA? It is also a matter of demographics. And why am I saying that? You'll tell me, alone the elderly have stayed in the villages. Only the elderly, grandparents and grandparents. But if there's a kid, a young man who wants to go back to the homeland and wants to open a small store, why not give him a survival incentive? I would therefore like the government to see all these issues, because they are becoming critical and do not come from opposition at the moment. They come from the recognition of needs which exist scattered throughout the Greek region and should be strengthened. Data were provided that the Greek population after forty - fifty years will be reduced by at least two million. Give a little incentive to be at least reduced by a million nine hundred thousand. That's what I expect to hear. I shall now proceed to the second part, chapter of this well-known legislation on energy. It is a technocratic text, of course, if you like. It is difficult in this House to approach it to the full extent of what is being pursued and what it will end up with, but in any case, it also has some issues on which at least one opportunity, even instant reference, should be made. Will it work? We've got a precedent bad. He's not Mr. Skourlet. We have seen an intervention in the Socar, Azeri, that there should be a change in return, that we have seen a lengthening of time, that we are hearing and reading today that the President of the Azeri company is coming to renegotiate, even if the guarantee letter that this agreement has given or will collapse is renewed. I am not in favour or against the privatisation of gas. All I say is that if the country needs investment and, above all, serious investment, every agreement that has been reached so far must be supported in order to show credibility, because at the end of the day we will be asking for loans in 2018 if we are to stay at this rate of virtually zero investment. They don't exist privately. They are limited to so-called privatizations, privatizations, concessions - the value of the word no longer matters. The effort to strengthen the economy is limited only to these points. They should be supported, even if there are blurred issues. So we said about energy that it is the driving force of the future. I have heard about the famous EMCDDA, the special charge for limiting emissions of pollutants, that there is a question of amending the legislation. This amendment has not been tabled to discuss it today in this bill. If he comes later, I imagine that he should not be accepted for the reason that he will be in nothing more than five, just five, since the debate in plenary on the bill is already under way. I want to stand on the third point, the third part of the bill, which I have to say has surprised me. It comes from the Ministry of Infrastructure. Wish work would be for Mr. Spirtz to come here to give some answers. It is under way - and we all know - the contract to transfer the shares of TRAINOSE to an Italian company. They told us that by 30 a month the Court of Auditors would have delivered its opinion on the legality or non-legality of the transfer. We expect to see the contract, or at least to me it's a seven-sealed secret. I didn't see the contract go around, so I could read, listen to it, see what it says. And, oh of the miracle, today in this bill comes two articles that essentially refer to “TRAINOSE”, assuming that they support the interests of the Greek public. I'll be clear, then. Article 18 states - correctly - that GAIAOSE, which is assigned by the Greek State, will be able to lease the rolling stock to the ‘TRAINOSE’. I wonder whether the new 'TRAINOSE', the Italian one, will not bring its own modern rolling stock? Will it not bring us, to develop rail transport - freight, passenger - in Greece? Looks like he's not bringing us. I don't know the contract, just draw conclusions from what I'm reading. It won't bring, because what does Article 18 say? It says that GIAOSE will make the lease agreement of up to ten years and that TRAINOSE will undertake the works of extensive maintenance of the rolling stock it leases, to restore it to the proper operational situation, and that the costs are offset by the rent due. What's he telling me? What do I get? That the rent will essentially not exist because TRAINOSE will repair the rolling stock of GAIAOSE by its own means, which is essentially state-owned, but the repair costs will offset them with the rent due to TRAINOSE for the use of the rolling stock. This is where I'm going to speak legally now. What's this contract? It's the renting of a profitable thing. It grants the State the rolling stock, the wagons, the wagons, the use of the ‘TRAINOSE’. The ticket is therefore received by TRAINOSE. However, it does not take over the maintenance of the rolling stock. And since we're talking about small accommodations of eight, ten, six rooms, if I hired them to take advantage of it, will the owner impose on me and paint it and wipe it and do the maintenance and have it in proper condition, so that they can live in tenants, guests, tourists? Not because the hirer-farmer bears the static burden as operating expenses. What's he saying here? It tells us that the rolling stock, which is Greek, will be used by TRAINOSE, but its maintenance and upgrading costs are borne by the state. In other words, it tells us that the few 45 million of the price given for the acquisition of the "TRAINOSE" must be subsidized and also granted to him a consortium, I would say it now, because we give him the opportunity to be able to operate independently with state property. I'm not staying on this anymore. I will only say that, as the article says, 'prices are exempted from any tax or fee.' Other government damage. And why am I saying that? Since leases will be netted with the maintenance costs of rolling stock, no rents will be collected. Basically these costs, the maintenance costs, they will rise, they will rise, they will come down. Eventually, the State will not collect any tax from them? Nothing's going to collect? We need to see these, and that is why I asked the beginning of the debate to withdraw these two articles and go along with the ratification convention for TRAINOSE, to look at them in detail. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The last thing I'm going to say and I'm going to end is this: do you know what Article 19 says? It says that those famous 50 million bonused by the "TRAINOSE" to operate the lines will also be received by the Italian "TRAINOSE", because all the rail lines will be in deficit. Of course, the Peloponnese is excluded, so it doesn't work on the Peloponnese train. I don't understand why. I've asked for it with my timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Carras, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u125	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. But what are we gonna do there, he says? The subsidy received by the new company - it will be granted for five years, 250 million - will be offset by its debts to GAIAOSE or another concession by the OSE for the use of the lines. In other words, once again this netting will lead the state to pay for everything. What for? Once the line is cleared up, how will the line function? The subsidy has been granted under a special authorisation from the European Union so that the lines can function. Can they now function when resources are removed? Can they be operated or will there be an increase in this contribution? Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance and I apologise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, too. First of all, I must tell you that you will be distributed an amendment from the Ministry of Justice - and not to start commenting, I would like to inform you that it is the result of yesterday's sitting that we held in the Bureau of the President's office with the Corruption Secretary, Mr Vassiliou - where the electronic submission of 'from the outset' due to technical problems that have arisen is given a deadline of 15 days. That is what the amendment says. It is typical, but we have asked for it unanimously, so as not to cause a problem. Mr. Papagelopoulos will be here to defend her. But I am telling you how the amendment came about. Mr. Katrugalos has the floor for half Mr. Skourletis's year, which is seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, it is my turn to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u128	Wait a minute. I had announced that, Mr Katsotis, before you came.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u129	But I want to ask him and answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u130	I don't mind. Let him get ahead of himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u131	Listen. But that's not how we're gonna do it. Now, because of a special friendship - I should not say that by a microphone - I will give Mr Katsotis the floor. But here's the thing to be cleared up. Mr. Katsotis will be speaking. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Saridis will speak because I had written his name. Mr Katrugalos will then take the floor and then Mr Venizelos, who is already registered and was to speak after two colleagues. I would ask them to precede Mr. Venizelos. Then Mr. Papaliou and Mr. Stagioras will speak. Then again we go to the next parliamentary representative, who is Mr Dannellis. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor. To be typical in our time, to speak as many colleagues as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. I asked to speak before Mr Katrugalos, because I would like to denounce the attitude of the Ministry of Labour towards the hotel workers who today went to the Ministry to protest, because the Ministry has abolished the right they had so far, almost a hundred years ago, to take the only one in 20 years because of the nature of the profession. Since hotel workers, when some years are fired, are not accepted in this sector of the economy, they could spend some years in their lives, in the next few years, taking this one to twenty years of work. So the Ministry abolished it. They went to protest today and found the MATs in front and ate the "left" wood, as well as other times and not just now. Mr. Petropoulos yesterday said: "I didn't know what I signed. I do not see it all." Today, of course, it was confirmed by Mr Katrugalou's attitude that he knew and was aware of Mr Katrugalos, and it seems that the government's position is to abolish this right, the last thing that had been left to these workers, in this sector of the economy where the working jungle prevails and where undeclared work is the one that is dominated in every city, in every prefecture, in which contracts are not implemented, where wages are at the tartar, where, in any event, workers work endless hours of work to win the hoteliers. And this decision is a decision, which is in favour of hotel owners, because it wants to live money so that they can be strengthened. So no expectation can be given to workers from this policy and they must do their utmost to organise, resist, overthrow this policy. So he refuses to see the workers. Do you know what a slogan they call out, Mr. Catrugale?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u133	But that's a lie you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u134	Minister, you will answer when you take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u135	Here, they were beaten. Is that a lie?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u136	Of course it's a lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u137	Don't hold a dialogue with the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u138	Do you know what a slogan they call out? "Katrugale, Katrugale, with all that you're doing, you've overtaken him, Laskaris, you're reaching him," knowing that even in the new law on the trade union, you're preparing, you raise new walls at the expense of workers' organization and class struggle, which will in any case be strengthened and cannot stop it, no matter what measures you take to prevent and make it difficult for the workers' organization. And today what does the government do with this draft law? It comes to reassure the workers and the people, and it tells them that there is nothing to say about whether these businesses are going to go to the superstate and that this does not mean privatization of these businesses. What does it mean? If it doesn't mean that, why are you taking them to the superstate? What's the superstition he's gonna do? Is it going to work better so that workers and the people have more quality and cheap services? Of course not. You want to transfer them to the big capital. Our rapporteur has revealed the role of the surplus fund and the acceptance of this role by all of you, since you have voted for it in the third memorandum. This is also your government programme: implementing the Memorandum of Understanding, implementing the decisions of the European Union and NATO, measures, commitments and decisions that serve precisely the needs of capital and which level out whatever rights the workers have gained. You rob the people of unbearable taxes. The contractors in HYDAP know how many people the PPC contractors are now know how many they are? This will be the future of the workers' industrial relations in EYDAP, the "Building Infrastructures", PPC, by transferring them to the new company, which will make them the best use of, as you say. For the people's family, of course, water quality will be accompanied by increases in tariffs or quality, because it will be contrary to the profitability of businesses. What else is the law you're bringing? So you bring back all that you had to go through because of the movement of workers in the previous period with the insurance bill. You have made manoeuvre, in other words, and today you are taking them back, as regards young professionals, young scientists, farmers, whose great mobilisations have led to this result. So since you have passed the bill as a whole, an abortion, where you reduce pensions to all pensioners, where young pensioners will receive rather than pension benefits - and it has nothing to do with all this insurance that won the labour movement through very hard struggles - you are coming today and you are abolishing these differentiations that you have done in the last draft law. Yesterday, of course, we said exactly what you are doing. As for the fictitious years, for the acquisition of fictitious years, this was also a 15% discount on the faucet. You're coming now and what do you say to the man who buys the two years of the Army? Not 15% discount, but 2% per year, i.e. 4%. So he's gonna pay more than 11 percent for the fictitious years. So you come to say that you are trustworthy and that what you say you do. And you ask: 'But are we cheaters?' What do your plays show? You say one way or another. Here too, what you have had to take back, today you bring them back, legislate and increase contributions to the detriment of workers, reducing their income as a whole. Time doesn't get us to say any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much. The Minister has the floor, Mr. Katrugalos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. The fifty gray colors, which have already reached the deep black in information and misinformation, know new grievances as long as the government is trying to dismantle the system of interacting in the broadcasting landscape. Unfortunately, also parliamentary parties are identified with this system of sinful interests. The worst of all, though, is that a cloud of lies is systematically promoted in the political atmosphere. We are not talking about the facts, we are talking about their perversion. The hollows in the country accuse us of the destruction they brought. Hypocrites accuse us of hypocrisy, liars of lying. Because I don't want to be general and because you can't resist the ocean of lies, I'll take a representative example of what we're talking about in relation to Article 1. By nailing the lion, to understand those who hear us, because those who can't stand up to the truth use the lie as a weapon. We had taken care of the insurance bill, small shops, small businessmen in towns under two thousand inhabitants and villages, having special insurance reform. It was article 40 of the bill. I will tell you the names of my fellow Members who, at the PK meeting of 7 May and at the PKA meeting of 8 May, were falsely claiming - because it was written here, this is not a lie - that we had abolished this protection. So it is Mr Maniatis that his speech on page 258, Mrs Christophilopoulou and Mr Georgiadis, is on page 627. That's what they refer to at the PK meeting. At the PKA meeting Mr. Konstantinopoulos, on page 6, Mr. Stylos on page 231, Mr. Brutsis on page 347. What were they yelling at? "Destroy the small grocery store, the small manabic, dissolve the social fabric," while we did exactly the opposite and knew it. And he ran this "speaking" of lying, he drew the attention of the hard player, who you know who he is. I don't blame for feasibility. I will take the most favourable version of prestige and irresponsibility, even though at least one of the people I have named believes that they are a troika of the interior. So we were asked by the lenders after the vote on the bill, after the noise that happened, to take everything back, not to have special protection for people in small villages and towns. And, of course, we were revoking that. We have only accepted one case of those who are not farmers and rented rooms. For those who are part of a rural tourism programme, as farmers, still belong to the general category of this regulation, which has special facilities. But those who rent ten rooms and are in such areas are part of the general insurance scheme. What does that mean? That their minimum insurance is calculated on the basis of the wages paid by the unskilled worker, that is, EUR 7,000 per year. If you do the division, they are presumed to rent their rooms with 7 euros at night, accepting that a season is ninety days. And that would not happen if there were no such noise, not based on the criticism of parliamentarianism, but on the lie that kills parliamentism, because it is perverting the political debate. Everything that has been heard today is a lie, that they are losing all the discounts that young professionals or farmers have given. Special treatment remains, the only exception to the rule of insurance reform, that these young professionals pay contributions not to the minimum wage of the unskilled worker, but to 70% of this amount. All that came sooner is a deadline that, according to the original wording of the law, was in 2019 and became ‘in 2017’. Why did that happen? Because insurance reform, as we have said many times, was not the application of a memorandum. It was done just to neutralize the neoliberal peaks of the memorandum. That is why it was our reform. That's why the extreme player still wants to open up again. She doesn't accept it. It says that he wants - the regulations of Pinochet in private funds - the private insurance, which, in part, is the new Republic - and I am not talking about Pinochet, I am referring to private insurance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u141	Tsipras said it about Pinochet. For the waters...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Constantinople, look at your speech at the PKA meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u143	What you're doing is misery. You blame the Opposition...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u144	Okay, excuse me, I won't have a conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u145	Don't interrupt. Don't interrupt! Mr. Maniotis, you are a self-disciplined colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u146	I'll take the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u147	All right, let go, then. Let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u148	It's unfair what the Minister does. Accuseing the Opposition...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Maniotis, nothing is written in the Minutes. Let go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Comrade, I respect you personally. However, this is not a criticism when the law states that protection is also the case by waves Members of the New Democracy and the PASOK state the opposite. To conclude, Mr President, in Europe there is a conflict of neoliberal forces with the forces of social Europe. We in this conflict are with the world of work. That is why we are trying in Europe to shape this front with social democracy, which will overthrow its strategic attachment to the chariot of neoliberalism. We did the same in insurance, we'll do the same at work. And as I have done several times, I especially call on this New Democracy wing to tell us whether it considers the joint declaration of the social partners to be the basis of the labour negotiations, or whether it considers that the views of the International Monetary Fund on structural changes should be supported. We are proud, ladies and gentlemen. We are proud of this battle. We are pioneers in Europe in this battle. We had the compulsory compromise of July, but we did it, to stand up for the next battle of a war that does not end in a month and has a geopolitical character, which goes far beyond our country's limits. For this reason, do not try to invest very much in the noisy sessions of the SYRIZA Members, because we are all proud of the role that we have played and the role that we will play in the future. Because the collapse of the political system in the country showed precisely the need for another policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u151	Please complete, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u152	Just a minute, I should like to refer to the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u153	That's what you're closing up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u154	He is not my opponent to the Communist Party of Greece and I do not want to go against it. However, the Communist Party of Greece has always been based on the truth. It's not true that I was asked to see the hotel staff and I refused. Without any consultation with me, while I was in the House, they came to the Ministry of Labour. I have consulted their representatives - and I mentioned this - with information to the President in order to facilitate my presence in Stepa - that because I had to be present in the House, I will see them here. I sent relevant sms to Mr. Katsotis. It is not possible for the Communist Party of Greece to rely on lies. A party of struggles, sacrifices and, above all, consistency cannot lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u155	You were at the Ministry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u156	He can't lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u157	He was wrong, he didn't lie. It's a mistake of understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u158	Up here is the delegation, waiting for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u159	Mr Katsotis, I am not going to solve the problem of Mr Katrugalos' appointment with the delegation. Another is my role.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u160	I'm done, then. As far as this is concerned, I don't want that either.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u161	Please close, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u162	With regard to the one-off issue of hotel officials, there is no special rules in the law. There is the general rule of equivalency, according to which the only benefit is provided as a pension after the end of working life. There was a different arrangement for hotel officials because of seasonality. We can perhaps see the transitional nature of this arrangement. It is not possible, however, to have individual arrangements for individual sectors when this is not justified by very specific features. I said before that, that insurance reform has two characteristics: equality and social justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u163	The level!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u164	And we're proud of her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u165	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Maniotis, please sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u167	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u168	I saw you, Mr. Maniot. I'm not going to give you the floor now. Sit down, please. The President-in-Office speaks and you stand up and interrupt me and you are an old colleague. First of all, because of the fact that Mr Katsotis left - indeed the Minister came and told me that he wanted to speak at a certain time because he wants to meet the hotel staff delegation. From there on, what sms traded with the party that tells the truth always - the rest lie - is your thing. Well, we've got this thing closed. Now, Mr. Manatis, I have said that Mr. Venizelos will speak. Here will be the ministers, I've said so, don't interrupt him. In addition to the staff you want to put, Mr Saridis, Mr Papaalis, Mr Staikoras will then speak, and then we will be speaking to a parliamentary representative. Mr. President, come on. As my fellow Members know, I am customary - it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure - the former Members of Parliament have ten minutes. Here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the draft law on the prerequisites for evaluation within the framework, I imagine, of what Mr Tsipras said a few days ago at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition in relation to his government's plan. Unfortunately, the SYRIZA - ANEL government has no plan. Its doctrine is "we go well, we will go better", believing that the automatic recovery will come, that the theory of the compressed spring of the Greek economy will function automatically. I have said several times before that would have had a sense if the spring had not been destroyed, mainly in the first half of 2015 but also in the remaining fifteen months, from the July 2015 agreement to the present day. Everything that Mr Tsipras imagines is going to close the assessment, will give the improvements to the debt, according to what we had seconded since 2012, that Greece will join quantitative relaxation - but, to that end, bonds must be issued - that the impressive growth of 2.5% of GDP will come in 2017 and then lasting and fair growth since 2017 - I am saying, for the country - is not going to happen. Why, no condition is fulfilled in order to achieve this national goal of definitively exiting the crisis, and of marginalising and regaining our position within Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek issue is not a contractual issue. This is not a controversy, such as the one we knew until 2009, between two parties of power. This is not a little better or a little worse policy within the framework of the third memorandum. I repeat that the country's problem is existential, it is the risk of economic, social and institutional collapse. Why are you cultivating primarily, as a government and as a government majority, a concept in society that makes it not just a small and weak one, but a intolerance and an anti-developmental one. And such is a society that is not allowed to understand the past, to assess it properly, so that the future can be planned. Even the current government theory, that the major problem, the primary problem is debt, means in particular that we have a problem that others will solve and we do not need to do, while we all know that the country's primary problem is structural, it is a lack of competitiveness, it is a lack of investment and investment conditions, the lack of liquidity, the absence of a banking system that operates as a lever for growth in the real economy. The country is at risk of recycling the crisis, not because it will not serve its debt. This is easy and will be settled where there is a problem with very great ease. The country is at risk, mainly in the backbone of the financial system, because the deposits are not returned, because there is no real national savings, because no non-bank funding is mobilised, because society is not resurrected, because there are no political conditions for the people to believe that there is a prospect. You see, the frustrated hopes are now beginning to avenge those who traded it. But, unfortunately, this brings the whole place together. There's a miserabism in Greek society. There's a deposition of misery and defeat. Lies cannot do business, especially when at the same time there is a very serious problem of democracy, of the rule of law, of justice, of transparency and credibility. And, indeed, I can't cry that the government is slandering, that they're morally attacking her, that there's been an organised murder of characters. They say these are people who built their careers and homicide of lies, deception, slander and the moral murder of their opponents. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Unfortunately, all this is left in the stockpile of the nation's historical memory, they have poisoned society's perception and mentality, and now operate conscientiously, anti-developmentally. Prerequisites for first evaluation with one year delay. And the lies continue. Mr Tsakalotos was forced to say yesterday with his characteristic comfort that he can see that all the public enterprises that are transported to the supreme site at some point are being privatised, not by his signature.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u170	"Everything" I didn't say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u171	Not with his signature, 'cause he's watching where he puts it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u172	The word 'all' is yours. Do not put words in the mouth of others. I said 'Some can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u173	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u174	Don't get upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u175	Minister, nothing is recorded. When it's time to take the floor, you'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u176	Since Mr Tsakalotou's signature is heavi, I will submit to the Minutes the statement by the European Council of 12 July 2015 with Mr Tsipras' signature, which is less heavier and sensitive than Mr Tsakalotou's signature! "The Greek authorities must - and therefore commit themselves - "to develop a significantly enhanced privatisation programme with improved governance. Greek high-value assets will be transferred to an independent fund, which will liquidate them by privatisations and other means, with a target of EUR 50 billion." [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] These are signed by Mr. Tsipras on 12 July 2015. Now he's trying to fix it, to mitigate it, Mr. Chakalotos. [[At this point, the Member, Evangelos Venizelos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For the debt settlement, which should have been given since the country showed a primary surplus, but unfortunately it has been lost for days SYRIZA - ANEL, I just want to remind you that in the days of Mr Tsakalotos at Eurogroup, in the latest debt sustainability study published by the International Monetary Fund for Greece in May 2016, a few months ago, on page 6, in figure 1, there is a complete duplication of the damage caused by the current government to the body of the Greek economy and the projection of debt in the future. The latest sustainability report says that “the prospect that existed until June 2015, before the referendum, the capital controls and the third memorandum, was in 2060, when the programme, the second memorandum, the Greek debt were 70% of GDP and the annual financial needs below the internationally accepted 15% limit.” In May 2016 you know what the view is? To be the debt of 250 % of GDP in 2060 and the annual financial needs of 60 % of GDP. Take the report as a whole. But focus on the shape of page 6. [[At this point, the Member, Evangelos Venizelos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I wish that what the German Government said is not true that the debt debate will take place at the end of the current memorandum after 2018. I wish it now, immediately, as we managed in February 2012 to take the giant intervention in debt and haircut in advance without conditions with a EUR 75 billion dose. Mr. Tsakalots co-signed to the last Eurogroup on 9 May 2015, which dealt with the debt, the joint statement by the Eurogroup members, who places the intervention on the debt after the end of the current third memorandum. Unfortunately, the intervention we have taken without additional conditions will now be given in a fourth memorandum, which will be lasting and harsh. This is the damage to the economy, growth and employment. The warnings are condensing. Mr Hoodis, the flesh of your flesh, says that we lost at least six billion, because they removed the profits from the portfolios of the European central banks of the Eurosystem that we had acquired in 2012. And it's not six billion. Maybe over nine. The latest report by the International Monetary Fund cannot be ignored, as the 2008 or 2009 reports have been ignored. The President of the Commission, Mr Juncker, himself, says that the fact that the borrowers were excluded from their preference before taking the red loans to the funds was a government's choice, despite the explanations that Mr Stathakis is attempting to give. This is an official letter from the President of the European Commission. The Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Dombrovskis, said yesterday that SYRIZA's policy caused a recession and hard measures of austerity. Well, when you have all this, you cannot come and say 'we're going well', 'we'll go better'. You cannot say that I am entitled to rule the place and merchandise again myths and narratives. If Mr. Tsipras believes in his own account of automatic recovery, which will be politically capitalised, the country will be destroyed and SYRIZA will go to the cart elections. But that's what we're interested in. We are interested in patriots to avoid disaster. That is why it is very important to change the way we are thinking, so that we can renegotiate with the partners and get a financial space, a lower primary surplus - which I have asked since 2013 - against structural changes, against reforms, must be reliably said by another government that believes and can do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u177	Mr President, please, you'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u178	I say only two facts, Mr President. If we fail to obtain some kind of European guarantee, especially of deposits to the Greek banks, we will not overcome the major problem of the Greek economy and if we cannot create an investment vehicle, such as a special subsidiary of the European Investment Bank in Greece, we will never be able to support the evacuation of the Greek real economy. However, in order to do this, we must first of all resolve - and I am ending - the institutional issue, the question of democracy, the rule of law, justice and pluralism. A government that has brought to the heart of its choices of dark issues, strange relationships, preferences, which cause huge questions, a government that suffers from an obvious crisis of representativeness and legitimacy, cannot plan or promote the future of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u181	Well, put your hands down for just a minute and think of the other fifty five colleagues who are waiting. Personals, please, gather and not do anything personal. In any case, Mr Manatis will be speaking for a minute, Mr Brutsis will be speaking for a minute and then Mr Papagelopoulos will be speaking for three minutes, the Minister then for the amendment - although I have explained to you fatally what it is, to keep in mind and whoever wants to be put - and then we enter the five-minutes with Mr Saridis, from whom I apologise for the waiting. Here you go, Mr. Maniotis, for a minute, strict.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, Mr Katrugalos has committed an institutional immorality, a democratic inappropriateness. In his position he accused members of the Opposition, among them myself, of criticising him during the vote on the previous bill, which you were cutting off pensions and increased contributions, and this noise was supposed, according to Mr Katrugalo, to raise the troika and now the 'bad troika' is now coming and imposing it on him as it is now, to cut off the tax exemptions, these small exemptions, tax exemptions, by young professionals, young scientists and young farmers. Minister, you will either review it and ask for your words to be deleted from the Minutes or otherwise, both yourself and the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, over the past five years, when you have been opposition, and not only you have had a noise, but you have caused from the Constitution to Brussels yourself into the fringe and you are much worse than what you are accusing us of. Therefore, because you will not remove our right as Anti-Policy to criticise you, or you will get it back or we return it all. I shall conclude, Mr President, only with one phrase, because he has also said something else. With regard to the invitation which, however, fell from Mr. Tsipras's hands on social democracy, Mr. Kouvelis found it. We're giving them Mr. Kouvelis to the invitation which, however, dropped him by Mr. Tsipras. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u183	Mr. Brutsis will answer, if the Minister wants, for both of us. We consider this to be a personal matter, and answer it without explaining it. Say what you want to say, so we can get time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a moment ago Mr Katrugalos fell into a heaviest slip. I'm looking into his eyes. I won't tell you a liar. Ask society. Ask the workers and the pensioners. I'll urge you to go to the Constitution, to your dear place, where you took out the reasons, the fiery, against the insurance. Call workers and pensioners and ask who the conscience of the world is a liar. You're the first minister, there's no one else, and the only one who's been defying his law for a long time. It's SYRIZA's responsibility. You were smuggling this House, smuggling the Prime Minister himself. You undo the law you passed out on four months ago. I would remind you of the picture, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA: the Prime Minister, next to Mr Katrugalo, should give his hand, due to his honor, to engineers, doctors, dentists, lawyers and to say that 'within the difficulty of at least the young scientists in our country and the farmers, I will make this transitional arrangement' and today take it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Brutsi, the rest in your speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u186	I'm closing, Mr. President. Two months ago, under pressure from the CRL's report for the time being, you committed yourself to the REAL radio station to bring in 100 doses. The day before yesterday, Mr. Alexiadis got you a liar.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Brutsi, don't embarrass me. You said personal. I gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u188	It's personal. That's personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u189	You're written to speak too low.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u190	I'm hanging up. A place under two thousand, which was also the issue...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u191	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u192	I want to assure Parliament that previous legislation ensured, shielded and guarded coffee, small businesses in the small villages of our country, because they had the insurance impact of the OGA and today with the new law of Katrugalo - reduction of pensions, increased contributions - all doubled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u193	That's what you say in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u194	Mr. President, it's the essence...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u195	It's not personal, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u196	This is personal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u197	For personal reasons, I gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u198	It's personal, because this is...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u199	Shut up, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u200	I'm closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u201	Minister, you have the floor for two minutes. You're responding in total. I am not prepared to stay 20 colleagues without speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u202	You're right, that's why I'm only going to read from the Minutes pages 258 to 259 Mr. Maniotis' position at that time. "Of course, the cafes, grocery stores and manaves in villages below two thousand inhabitants will be closed, because it obviously no longer suits the government in the villages to gather people and discuss their problems." I didn't talk about criticism. Parliamentism is based on the critical exchange of arguments, killed by lie. Mr. Brutsis, Mr. Maniatis and the others I mentioned earlier in my speech and I have the excerpts here and any of them want me to read them out loud what they did in the debate on the bill? A regulation that existed and protected professionals in towns and settlements below two thousand inhabitants claimed that there was no. That's not an opinion, the arrangement was there. So I told you, and before, that just because you cannot compare to the truth, you are using the lie. But lying, you know, it's not going away, it's got legs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u203	It's not even the end of time. The floor has been raised by the Deputy Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr Dimitris Papagelopoulos, for three minutes for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u204	By means of the proposed amendment, in paragraph 6 of Article 66 of Law 4409/2016, ‘1 October 2016 and ending on 31 December 2016’ is replaced by ‘15 October 2016 and ends on 15 January 2017’. The proposed provision is extended - as is shown by the text that I read to you - for 15 days the deadline for submitting an exceptional statement of assets for the year 2016 - i.e. the use of the year 2015 - to complete the upgrade of the online electronic application and to include the additional information provided by Law4389/2016 and to put this application into service for all the debtors. This short-day extension for the electronic submission of the 2016 Asset Statement and the full upgrade of the Web site aims at the uninterrupted and no longer ambiguity, electronic submission of the above statements by all the debtors in order to cover the spirit and letter of the law. It's a typical matter. I think there will be no objection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u205	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u206	You want to ask something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u207	A clarification we want from the Minister. I understand that you are not ready for 1 October and you want to go on 15 October. The extension of fifteen days to the end, I do not understand what he adds. That, if he wants to, he can answer it to me. Why doesn't it end on the same date again? Give the fifteen days, because the system for electronic submission of declarations 'from where it is' is not ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u208	To make it easier for the debtors, since they will be confined to space, and there will be greater...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u209	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u210	I don't think there's been a matter for 15 days.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u211	I don't know if there's any tax. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u212	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u213	No, Mr. Varvichiotis. Let me repeat it. You weren't in the Chamber at that time. Yesterday there was a plenary session of the Bureau under Mr Voutsis and the Corruption Secretary, Mr Vassiliou, and it emerged in the implementation of the information he made to us with comments made by Mrs Christodoulopoulos as President of the Commission 'from where you were concerned', problems from the implementation of the CSR which had been made. And we, more as parliamentarians and less as Vice-Presidents, unanimously called for this extension to be carried out in order to correct the shortcomings that existed. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. Mr Saridis, Mr Papalieou, Mr Staikoras, Mr Vultesis, Parliamentary Representative, Mr Danellis, Mr Georgiadis, Mrs Arabatzi, Mr Moraitis and Mr Pappas. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, half of Greece is dying and the political world has been dealing with Kalogritsa in the last two weeks. Half Greece dies and the channels play their first theme of their licenses. Half of Greece dies, closes businesses, go away businesses, reduce pensions, increase taxes, and in this picture the flag of the government and the flag of counterpopulation is whether the licensing procedure is legal or not. I leave that to Greek justice. In a short time, it'll shine. I will not misinform the citizens. I'll leave it to others. Ladies and gentlemen, it is almost a year since the political ideas of the main party are re-elected in the Greek Parliament. In this period of time, and from this step, the Association of Centres, consistent with its democratic tradition, in harmony with its programming positions and in cooperation with Greek citizens in order to protect the public interest and ensure the Greek nation, makes its own struggle. The Centro Association insists on trying, supporting the right and the right, fighting unjust and malicious. In this context, many times over the last year, I spoke to the House about the need to explain to the Greeks what exactly these are, which we are voting on in this Chamber. I heard colleagues say that no matter what we say to the Greek people, it is of little value, as they will learn the truth when they go in front of an ATM. Ladies and gentlemen, some truths are not hidden. As well as describing the country's Memorandum of Understandings, with all the beautiful words "dress" the presentation of the terms signed by SYRIZA, New Democracy, Democracy, Potami and Independent Greeks in the 15th of August 2015, we cannot reduce the consequences that all of this has on the Greek people. So I will not insist today on explaining what is contained in today's prerequisites package. They will know what we are voting on today whenever they go to get their pensions, whenever they go to pay their obligations, whenever they are forced to choose between two needs. As the Greek family faces tough dilemmas every day and is forced to find and choose the least painful cut, looking to protect above all its children, so we in the Greek Parliament should also be doing something here. A year has passed since Prime Minister Tsipras took the letter of President, Vassilis Leventis, with the wonderful nine points, nine sacrifices, which we did not find the political will to do. We have asked you and we ask you to cut off ourselves. We have asked you and we ask you to cut off from the people they have. We have asked you and we ask you, as a political world, to move on to the same sacrifices that the Greek people are forced to live every day. In the years of Postmultiple Greece was never found in such a need for consensus and cooperation. It is our responsibility, as democratically elected representatives of Greek citizens, to stand up to the circumstances. Something very wrong is happening in this country. Members are afraid to tell the citizens the truth. Instead of informing about the contents of the laws that are passed here in twenty-four hours, journalists deal with how to save their jobs. We have critical national issues ahead of us. We have the Cyprus issue, we have the Skopje, we have the refugee issue, national issues, and that is what has been shaped in recent years. In conclusion, I would like to say a few words about my city of Thessaloniki, which has been hard to test these days. And as we speak of one thing, in particular, where the dividing line is between words of exploitation and sale, the example of Thessaloniki has much to teach us. On the one hand, we have learned that when you privatize, you have to cut off all relationship with the umbilical cord, with the state budget, otherwise forms are created, as have been created in our city. On the other hand, we have a public body, ELTH, which is a diamond for the city, which in the past thirty years has given billions of goodwill to the Thessaloniki market. This is an agency which, if we simply unblock the recruitments already approved and properly staffed, will be able to proceed with the implementation of the operational plan which has been made public and in five years' time, bring more than double revenue to the state funds than if we sell it. Equal to PPC, it's ELVO. It is of equal value, both with water and with electricity, that the defence industry in the country has. I invite you to prove to all Greeks that the country's defence is not at the negotiating table. There is no private person who can inspire the Greeks' confidence that they have won in the consciousness of the Greek people in ELVO. ELVO is capable of surviving and supporting the national effort in a unique way. What's the point of making deals with Egypt when you've put it in the superstition? A present to the investor, will you? Along with ELVO and ELVO, we've got the NSA in the U.S.S.A. Are you negotiating water, this public good? What's the plan? What's the design? We have an obligation to some people on this thing, on how you manage the EGH, on how you treat ELVO, how you deal with the EGH? It'll show what we're voting on here today. What we are voting on today here is what all Greece looks at. The future is being built. The future is won. We all have an obligation in here, we have a responsibility for the future of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u215	And because when I preside and hear things talk about MPs, at least for Members of the quality that we all want, I will not remain silent without answering. I would like to say that, firstly, the pensions of old colleagues have been reduced by 70% and possibly by the plaque that entered last time, and more. New colleagues don't retire. Members' salaries, at least from the day of the crisis to the present day, have fallen by at least 35%. Because it is nice to say this and to hear it, but we have to say what is happening. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u216	If he doesn't want his salary, he can tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u217	Let's go, we're done. Mr. George Papaliou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u218	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every time a bill is introduced to the House for structural changes, opinions are drawn up which link structural changes with the Memorandumary Obligations. Not that this is not the case, but in this case, at least in the field of energy, that is not the case. These arrangements are an obligation of the country, not as a country that has been subject to a memorandum but as a member country of the European Union. Irrespective of the opinion that one can have on the liberalisation of the energy market and the way in which the previous Greek governments negotiate this issue, our country's membership of the European Union imposes obligations, including the adoption of regulations and their incorporation into the Greek legal order. The bill therefore comes to implement a Union obligation consisting of adapting national law to the European practice of operating electricity markets. With the new framework, it is hoped that energy sales will take place in terms of transparency, objectivity and consumer-friendlyness, while it is hoped that prices will balance at lower levels due to competition. As far as insurance is concerned, certain aspects of it need to be clarified in order not to create false impressions. It should be recalled that, for both self-employed and self-employed professionals, and for farmers insured in the OGA, the reduced minimum basis for calculation is maintained and for health care contributions, that is, 70% of the planned basic salary. This in itself is a success. The draft also includes arrangements concerning insurance contributions to the healthcare sector. These are two interventions concerning the new insured persons, the EFF and the economists of the EUPM under the five-year period for which the reduced rate for the first years of insurance is abolished and the general rate of 6,95% provided for in L.4387/2016 applies from 1-1-2017. In addition, the transitionality of the contributions for health care, which provided for reduced contributions for 2017, is abolished. There is no doubt that this is not a positive development. But the pressure on creditors in the context of the negotiation is well known. Such a charge will in any event be less than that shown, as at least most farmers will have reduced insurance contributions in 2017, since, as is known from 1-1-2017, the contributions of farmers, as well as the remaining self-employed, will be calculated on the basis of the net taxable income of the previous financial year, i.e. real income and not on the basis of imputable income. In this context, one colleague said earlier - the reasonable arrangements for farmers for the self-employed are maintained in very small settlements of less than two thousand inhabitants. Everyone remembers that as soon as the Opposition prejudgeed the change in this framework and even accused us in this House of having changed it. The Greek Government negotiated and succeeded the self-employed under two thousand inhabitants to remain protected under the different status of farmers. Thus the owners of a grocery store or a cafeteria in mountain Greece, which in fact have extremely low incomes and at the same time support the local economy and social life, will contribute to the survival of these areas. The issue of tourist accommodation is dealt with differently. Perhaps, Minister, we should look at it again by introducing certain criteria that vary the different regions of the country, where there are tourist accommodations. Because other areas, such as tourist islands, and other small communities, small settlements in mountainous Greece. That's all about the bill. I would like to say a few things about the behaviour of the opposition parties, which I would call hypocritical, because they all appear as if they were from virginity. They are talking about growth, employment, transparency, and other sounds similar to those that have led to bankruptcy. I would like to mention one example, the issue of sea-cream. The government had the courage to oppose the interests of the business elite and the oligarchy of money. This certainly does not like the parties of the old political system, but also those who have been unleashed by such a policy. In the parties of the Great Opposition, as well as of Elassinos, who were united with the canalarchs and the banking system to cancel the government's policy. You know, because I am also a member of the Parliament's Committee of Inquiry into the investigation of party and media loans, a lot has been heard there. There's gonna be a conclusion. We do not prejudge his conclusions, as others do in committee and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u219	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u220	I shall conclude, Mr President. However, none of this is as important as those that have been past as amendments, which at night acquit the invisible expressions of the interests that I have mentioned. A small sample of obvious interference in justice: I am talking about the amendment passed by Law No 4146/2013, Article 78, which laid down that the Presidents, members of the boards of directors and managers of banks to enter into loans of all kinds with public-law legal entities or private-law entities of a non-profit-making nature in the wider public sector are exempted from any liability. In other words, in order to make it clearer and understand it, there were executives on the boards of banks that provided sea-fashioning to parties and to the media, which are unhelpful and unpaid. And we're not talking about small amounts. We are talking about amounts that touch one billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u221	Mr. Papaliou, please. I gave you two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, I am ending with two phrases. Therefore, the New Democracy and the PASOK were seized and loaded on the backs of the Greek people by means of the recapitalisation of the banks. In addition, we have about 402 million debts of the New Democracy and PASOK parties. The opposition has long been on supplying the system of the triangle of sin with hypocrisy and enthusiasm. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u223	Mr. Colleague, I can't leave you any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u224	However, Mr President, I would like to stress this point - we will continue to fight for the law, because above all we represent another logic. We will continue to fight against the interests of interlocutors, political interventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u225	Yes, but if each one of you speaks to you plus three minutes with one thanks to the president, half the line won't speak. Instead, thank you for being consistent in our time. Mr Christos Stakoras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u226	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are again in the same theatrical performance of spectators. We are talking for once in suffocating deadlines and a long delay in some of the prerequisites for completing the first assessment, most of which, on the basis of government commitments, should have been completed from June and July. I put the text in the Minutes from the supplementary memorandum which has not been submitted to Parliament by the Greek Government and which is on the Commission's website. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And we arrived at the end of September in order to discuss them, with the sole responsibility of the Government for the blockade and the gun at the front, while they are still falling short of them, delaying the completion of the evaluation. I hope that this will not delay any further and close the best way for Greek interests, because the second substitutation of the first assessment needs the real economy first. This is because an important part of it is planned to be directed towards the repayment of a few public debts which have increased by 80% over the days of governance of SYRIZA and ANEL. Ladies and gentlemen, the cost of government's delay is experienced by the economy, by society. Already, the seven-month delay in completing the first phase of the first evaluation has added budgetary measures and has led to humiliating commitments. Commitments such as the cutter, the supreme demilitarisation, which is an unprecedented assignment of the entire property of the country for a period of one century, without effective national control and accountability. Today, the provision of the draft law under discussion is to strengthen the excess. A little recent historical regression has its value. In May, when the surplus was created, the Government undertook to transfer assets to the newly established ‘Public Participating Company’. At first he hid these assets. Following ongoing interventions by almost aggregation of counter-population, the Government submitted a legislative improvement, which I will submit in the Minutes, according to which a number of companies were transferred to the supranational authority, including the companies of IKATH, ELVO, "Attica Metro", "Building Infrastructures" and PPC, with the signature of the Minister of Finance Mr Tsakalotou. I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvement, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A few minutes later, the Minister of Finance submitted a new legislative improvement, which abolished the previous legislative improvement, excluding these companies from the transfer - I submit it in the Minutes - by invoking a mistake and that these companies are for discussion for the second round. [[At this point the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvement, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Today, four months later, these companies are finally transferred to the supermarket. All of them! The conclusion is simple: either once again, on a temporary basis, the government concealed the truth from Greek citizens or once again failed to negotiate so-called hard negotiations. There is no other interpretation, one of the two applies. Let the government fail to justify the fact that the excess is a development vehicle and not a stabilization body, so it would be the interest of the companies to transfer. Because, if that were the case, you should have done it since May and not delayed it for four months. If it was such a positive development, why didn't you do it in May? But lies, as the Minister said, have short feet. It is enough to read the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which notes that these public undertakings are now being "private" not only in formulae, but also in essence, making it uncertain to continue to provide affordable services of general interest and, above all, high quality. That's what the report says. The truth is therefore once again revealed. Ladies and gentlemen, today, one year after the last elections, the draft law under discussion is an informal account of the governance of SYRIZA and ANEL. Negotiating defeats, deceptives and lies are the tripartite of government failure. No red line, retreat all the time. It makes no sense to remind you of what you were saying and what you are doing. And that, because it doesn't sweat your ear, since you willingly do everything, without moral inhibitors, without ideological coordinates, in order to stay in power for a while. It is obvious that the country needs another government, effective, honest and reliable. A government, which will implement forward structural changes and demilitarisation and promote a change in the fiscal policy mix towards a gradual reduction in tax rates, balanced between economic efficiency and social justice, a New Democracy government with its timelylyly ideological and political core, that of the social market economy, which can produce wealth for everyone, attract private investment and create new jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr Stakoura. So we arrive at Mrs Sophia Vultusis. Immediately after the speech, Mr Dannelis, the Parliamentary Representative of the River will be given. Then there will be the Members' triads. Georgiadis, Arabatzis, Moraitis and then Mr Papapas, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn. Then the list will continue. Mrs vulgaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u228	Thank you very much, Mr President. These days we have heard terrible things again. The government and the Congressarians say that they voted for the third memorandum to neutralise the second - and because it did not arrive, they also voted for a fourth, complementary - and voted for the supranational government to neutralise the TIAD. As in the case of the so-called regulation of the television landscape, so now that, for a 30-year-old loan, the whole country is delivered for a century, on the propaganda track, they go down on different lines and say what suits them every time. In other words, on Friday, Mr. Kalogeritsa had given the "fileto", the diamond of Ithaca, but on Monday we had triumphs because he ran away. Today we have also had Mr Kouloglu who gave another version, perhaps the one that is closer to reality, claiming that Mr Kalogris obviously concluded an agreement with members of the current government, because, of course, it is the government's job to have some friendly media. That's the situation. Since yesterday you have given recitals, ladies and gentlemen. Others say you had to. One guarantees that as long as he is the same Minister, he will not implement the law he is preparing to vote on. The third and fourth claim that the excess will not be privatised. The fifth is crying and wants Jesus Christ to become the militarizations. In the end, however, you are not telling us what is happening. Did you have to accept the superstition, or did you ask? Yesterday Mr. Chakalotos said the fund was a compromise. He's causing us problems, he said. Today, Mr. Stathakis on television said your pursuit was the superstition. Mr Skourletis called it'relentless'. Can you tell us what is going on, so that we too know the extent of responsibility, when responsibility for this situation will be sought? The truth is, you're just lying again. The truth is, you've set the gresso trick very well. Grabing and handing over the country and monitoring the information, so that nobody knows what's going on. The truth is that you know very well that you signed it all last summer with the agreement, with the supplementary memorandum on June 16, 2016, with the FEK on May 25, 2016. You are well aware of the Commission's report on the first assessment and you are well aware, of course, of the updated public-private-owned project of the GOI. You know what the superstition is and that under the superstition all the rest will go, and the TIADE and the holding company and the EBRD and the CF and everything. Look, whatever Mr. Skourletis says, it's all agreed since the summer of 2015. Whatever Mr. Skourletis says, their energy companies are saying goodbye. The king is naked. Mr. Skourlet, right now, he's a minister of nothing. The ridiculous thing is that referring to the FEK on May 25, which approved the list adopted by the TIDED and in there are all the companies of Mr. Skourletis, he argues that this is an old list of Samaras and Venizelos. Excuse me, Mr. Skourletis, did you adopt a plan for the Samarovenizelos in May 2016? You're not a government? That's what you're telling us. The FEK is clear and if you don't remember, I'm going to present it again with regard to your companies. You have approved all of what you say you will not. You have also made too many statements, but I have no time to talk about them again. I'll resubmit them, enriched, for the record. Of course, I don't have time to talk about what's defamatory and slandering against the head of the TIAD, you and Mr. Spirtzis are saying above all. I'm sorry, but I don't understand how Mr. Pittsirlas tolerates all this. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] Even for disseminating false information, you've charged him with it. I will also present your statements on Mr Pittsirla, and Mr Pittsirlas read them and see that somewhere he needs to be disturbed, I think, with what you are saying, and not exceed it in style, 'We are implementing the draft of the government'. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So you've signed the FEK. He's got the ELPE, he's got the PPC, he's got it all. You have nothing. He's at the Treasury Department. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing.]] I shall conclude with a word, Mr President. Mr Tsakalotos - I do not see him here, but he will be informed - knows very well that the superstition works completely independently and you will not be pilgrimizing. The unanimity required ties your hands. You put everything there and said good-bye. Because Mr. Tsakalotos is learnt to explain to us what is meant by the supranational agreement, 'at arm's length' by the government, a distance from the government. ‘At arm's length’. That means an absolute distance from the government. There will be no reason for the government to have any say in the supreme. If you don't know what that expression means, Mr. Chakalotos, who speaks English very well, will explain it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, my colleague. The Parliamentary Representative of the River, Mr Dannelis, has the floor. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing another greedy prerequisite legal procedure. It is a disgraceful process, because it reveals for once hypocrisy and our refusal to understand the untrustworthyness in which we have come as a country. That is what we are discussing today, namely that the country is unreliable, a special case between the normal European countries. This, of course, did not happen yesterday. Unreliability is not created in a year and a half, but peaks. Our unreliability as a country began long ago, when governments successively, one after another, expanding destruction, denying any substantial reform, any understanding and any common national exit plan from the crisis, when they discovered'success stores' invisible to the majority of the people. The unreliability came back at the time, when some promised that they would shave memorials in either Zappeion or abolish them with an article, a law in the Constitution, and when they were supposed to agree with the partners, but immediately after each agreement they were faced with them as puppets, refusing to harm customerism and synagogues. Because that was always the key. Then followed by the negotiation - parody with the shirts out. This is how the institutions have decided that we are a special case within the Eurozone, a case which requires special and thorough, ongoing surveillance. How could it be done differently? The programme you have signed, and of which you are still not taking custody, is being carried out fragmentally, and we must always reach only five deadlines, to legislate at night and with urgent or urgent procedures. In fact, you still refuse to separate the old, unsustainable model of the state-run economy and tight hugging with the regiments on a case-by-case basis. The ECJs are the translated example. Timeless washing machine with gold wages, arrogant wage increases and fictional allowances. For 2009 alone, the Ministry of Finance estimated that their payroll cost was more than 1,188,000 euros. I heard Mr Tsakalotos in the committee yesterday - and I didn't believe in my ears! - to vouch for the deep demunition of the surplus, saying that the TECs that fall within it will cease the phenomenon of the client appointments of our own children, which was timeless, so it continues today. The other children, ladies and gentlemen? The children of the rest of the Greeks, young scientists, whose contributions are being launched under this bill, which we thought a few months ago we were able to achieve? Is that an incentive to stay in the country or to return to it? It's true, going back to the superstition now, that it's something humiliating. But that's how it came to us. If we are not worthy to settle our home, it is time that a third party undertakes to do so, and of course not in the best way for us. That's a rule unparalleled. We attended the committee yesterday the hearings of representatives of various bodies, including trade unionists from the ECOs, who must not forget that they contributed the wool - not the same as people themselves, but the perception - to the bankruptcy of both their premises and the country. For example, a TEC, like HICP, for which a lot of talk is being done, a monopoly company, finds it even today to spend huge sums on advertising, and many times in marginal - or mostly marginal - forms, as was the case, with procedures that saw the light of publicity, which reminded it of an cheap police novel. Another example is the ongoing strikes in OSH, another monopolistic, subsidised company, which is afflicting and forcing the Thessalonians to use a taxi or their own private means of travel, even though under normal circumstances 72% of its citizens are using the bus in daily journeys. OSTH is a "Jan" organization as usual. It is private whenever it suits him - profits, closed profession - and also state, whenever it suits him - damages, state subsidies, political embrace with the ruling parties. It should be noted, of course, that these state subsidies contribute - and this also applies to urban transport in Attica, of course - taxpayers throughout the territory, inhabitants of mountainous, island, remote and disadvantaged regions, which in most cases do not even enjoy the basic means of public transport. So we recognise today that another management of public property is needed. Is the superstition going to fix them? I doubt it. Experienced observers argue that the superstition is another stiff bureaucratic structure, which will come to be added to the already uncontrolled bureaucratic chaos of the Greek public. The superstition has more levels of decision-making than the HICP. Above all, it has multiple and conflicting interests with the institutions which represent these different interests, which, of course, retain the right to veto. There is no better recipe to come up with a complex project, such as this, in stagnation. We must, of course, recognise that all of this gives ideas. In particular, the close supervision of your institutions inspires distorting ideas. Over the past few days, the issue has suddenly arisen of the placement of government commissions in the form of administrative secretaries in the municipalities. The long arm of the government, that is, attempts to spread to local government as well. If in fact - because there are disputes on the part of the Ministry of the Interior - you are interested in a serious reform of self-government which has, in fact, very difficult problems to deal with, proceed to an integrated and open public institutional dialogue. However, please state clearly now that this pragmatic idea of Commissioners does not apply. Don't think we're negative of everything. We're not making a reflexive opposition. On the question of liberalisation of the energy market, we are positive and let us be cautious, as we know the government's permanent ambiguity with regard to privatisation, investment and the concept of business in general. Ladies and gentlemen, the Kalogerica boat left yesterday. His print, however, on the government's choices, unfortunately, remains. Big Brother procedures, parody checks, loan pasture, scandalous manipulation of the Attica Bank. Now, rabbits, rabbits with rocks are in the game. Did you really need all this so much? How are you now talking about the complexion of others and about the truly sinful and existing triangles? Bad thing is the arrogance of excellence. Because we have said, moral advantage is not a donation stamp and must be proved constantly. With the Minister of Education, Mr Phile, who continues the work of his predecessor, Mr Baltas, in response to a rapid reform of what he tried to do with the Diamantopoulou Act - and to be more precise and fair, with what this law provided for after the irritating interventions of Mr Arvanitopoulos - we are totally opposed. Excellency is deceived, eternal students return, evaluation is perverted and extremated from everywhere, institution councils are dissolved. In order to settle our clone - many kinds of clones - we return to the time when assistants at night were baptized "teachers". The way of administration and organization of HEIs is redesigned in the light of the return to the partisan and co-management with students - customers. The downward equation, which is being attempted, is not a tool for the equality and class upgrading of the financially weakest. It's exactly the opposite. For all this - and I repeat - we are deeply opposed to Mr Philly. On the subject of the Religious who has emerged, however, we must be clear and resurrected by the Maximus. Orthodox may have a separate place under the Constitution, as it has a separate place in both the tradition and daily life of our people, but the competence of education policy is exercised exclusively by the government. The contents of school books are part of this competence. The Institute for Educational Policy, with the participation of approved theologians, has worked hard, in recent years, to reshape a course that, as is being taught today, no longer serves anyone for anything. The Church has no institutional role in the lesson. Therefore, it cannot be the institutional interlocutor of the Minister. The bodies involved are the Ministry, the IPA and theologians. It's not the school's job to do catechism. Progressive theologians, expressors of the living Church, who do not deny the world in which they live, realize how deadly hypocritical it is to give a false battle for an empty shirt. The targets are obviously other, unspeakable. Archbishop Jeronym, remembering the modesty and rationality he has shown in the past, should the next Tuesday, during the discussion on the matter at the Holy Synod, be completely dismissed from the empathy and darkness of Ambrosius and the extremes that follow him. Let us consider the cost of the Church and of society, the attitude of Christoulos in the battle of identities. The role of the intolerance zealist led to a profound conservative turn of a large part of society, making it vulnerable to the gleaning of the enthusiasm that followed. The open horizons and spirituality of Orthodoxy at all times make it contrary to human values and rights. It is now necessary that the continuous battle of trenches between the State and the Church give its place to a sober, sincere and substantial dialogue. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the delimitation of the roles of the Church and the state will undoubtedly be to the benefit of both. It's time in sober, in a complete way at some point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Georgiadis, you are the next in a row, but the Minister has been asked to intervene for a few minutes. I think with your permission it can be preceded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u232	With great pleasure. Let's find out what he's going to vote for.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u233	Are you nervous?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u234	No, I don't have any agony. I know very well that the chair leaves her with nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u235	Minister, I think five minutes is enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u236	Yes, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to agree with the previous speaker that every time we come to the Chamber to discuss a Memorandumary Obligation, it is an inappropriate debate. It is a deplorable debate, because it reminds us first of all, apart from the commitments you have made - listened, we are not a country that operated and solved its problems democratically before the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. We were a country of collapse, with clientele governments, which really led to absolute depreciation and the public sector, which is working properly in every developed country, and it is a pillar for private initiative and private initiative, which within five years, until we take over government, lost half of the Gross National Product. We come here, in fact, to discuss a crucial issue, how public property can be exploited. Because I think that no one objects that public property should be exploited and not sold out of course. We hear honorers say we're going to sell the Acropolis. I heard that on a show, too. They say it to people, who were ministers of the previous government, who would not sell the Acropolis, but to "Asteras" they sold archaeological sites. Inside "Asteras" there is an ancient temple, sold together, as planned. Fortunately this stopped in the Council of State and the "Asteras" were excluded from ancient times. So some people wouldn't sell the Acropolis. They were already selling anciently. Let me tell you what else they were selling? Within the contracts of the GOD there are woodlands, there are saints, there are "NATURA", too many "NATURA" right now. At least we do not sell saints, we do not sell forests, we do not sell NATURA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u237	The yachts are not sold, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u238	It's okay. It hurts. I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u239	It's out of negotiation. Basic stuff. You have a constitution to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u240	It hurts. I know. To go back to the water, which has an agony, it seems that the Civic Opposition seems to me to make it clear first that water is a common good. It is not common good because the Greens say so. Water is common good because it is, in fact, impossible to collect the resource and to distribute it in terms of a free economy. When they manage - and I have said this from this Step - private companies bring four, five, six different water pipes home to choose the cheapest and better, perhaps we could then discuss that too - at least the distribution of water - in terms of free market. This is not why historically, where attempts were made to privatise the water, it resulted in fiasco and invoicing, but mainly in terms of quality. Because it is obvious that the individual cannot and does not want to maintain the water systems. If you see all the conventions in the water that have become historical, the ones that have been attempted by our predecessors, are the Lion contracts. He was going to pay the Greek state the infrastructure to win the private. So this could not be done. Here, then, I would like to state clearly that we are opposed to the privatisation of water. I really think it is enough for Mr Tsakalotou's statement yesterday that, as far as we are concerned, the water will not be left at the TIADE. That is why they leave the shares in the GOI and go to the new fund, which is not in the nature of the sale. Here, of course, to mention what may have been said today, the Greens did not consider this commitment enough and did well, because at the moment the government may have this perception, but tomorrow another government may come, with another perception, and there should be further safeguards in the law. Today - to close with this - in a constructive debate between the Greens and the Government, a legislative improvement has been achieved, which also safeguards this point, so that it is not just a statement by the Minister, it is not a mere will which is declared, but also entered into the law. What, in other words, very simple? The constitutionally guaranteed role of water as a common good and the case-law of the Council of State, which, of course, only applies to the EEAS, but thanks to this amendment, is extended to all the companies concerned, so that there is no doubt about it. So we, with this legislative improvement, are completely covered - to be covered and the citizens of Thessaloniki - that water is not sold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u242	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister for the Environment, you must have enormous courage to come to this House, to such a bill and say to the New Democracy, 'Do you hurt?' Listen, let's get this straight. Previously I was watching the television plan - let's call it that - Mr. Tsakalotos, Mr. Katrugalos and Mr. Skourletis. If it were, Mr President, and Mr Varoufakis, we would have had a repetition of that nice table from the square of the indignant. We'd do it on two shots. The indignant outside what they'd do and the indignant inside what they're doing. Mr. Skourlett may not have been, but you don't renounce the others, I imagine. Mr. Chakalotos, Mr. Katrugalos and Mr. Varoufakis were there. So what does that teach, Minister? He teaches that you poisoned people’s minds on the so - called easy road. You raised the walls of populism in the country and took our country very much back, because you came here, you do what you swore you would never do. But I must remind you in one way, because yesterday you were honest. Of course, with your honesty you have destroyed the entire record of SYRIZA Members. What did SYRIZA Members say to us all day yesterday? ‘This is not about privatization. It is a question of making use of it’. He asked Hatzidakis. What kind of exploitation? No one was answering. You came to your honor, and you said the truth. What's the truth? The one Mr. Chironis wants to hide. The truth is that what you are voting on today, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, what Mr Tsakalotos said yesterday, is that by voting today on this transfer potentially, the fund is able to make various investment choices, and if he wants to privatize. You, as a parliamentary group, will not be asked again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u243	I said...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u244	I know you did. You will not be asked again, because the House will not be asked again. From now on after your vote today, this will go to the supreme and therefore in the future any next Minister of Finance, without asking the House again, will be able to do this thing. Because you are looking at me, ladies and gentlemen, I am in favour of privatisation. I'm not, like you, a political crook. I did not go down a life on the streets, to say "I am against privatisation" and to hold the MP's chair, voting for new privatisations, like you. That's why when you look at me, look low. I resigned when I disagreed with my party, not like you two back there laughing, world-famous. You like the Congressman's chair. You're fine, but that's why you vote. Don't mock us in here. Well, to recapture. Today, Minister, what you said yesterday will be done. They're going to get through everything in the superstition. While you are Minister - I am convinced of your good intentions -, privatisations will not be made. I guess you don't want to stay ninety years Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u245	If you're what you're gonna do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u246	I'm always in favour of privatization. You're wrong. I'm not a political conman, I told you, like you personally. I'll come to you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u247	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u248	If they have you back the law of August, will you quit, Mr. Skourleti? You're laughing. Well, you're laughing. And I...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u249	It hasn't happened for the time being.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u250	I asked about laughter, too. I didn't think you'd really quit. I didn't have that fear. And let's go to Mr. Chironi, to hang up with Mr. Spirtzi. Listen, Mr Tsironi, when it has been announced that the Green Ecole will allegedly vote against, I was 'in the air', Mr Haritato. You can get the tape. Mr. Haritatos tells me: The Echoologists, he says, will vote against. I say: Mr Haritato, I make you 'in the air' I bet that not one in a billion. Cyronis to leave the chair? They'll find an excuse to vote. What you're saying is, you know, how stupid of skyscrapers. Obviously all the laws of the State take into account the decisions of the Council of State and the case-law of the courts. You don't have to write it in any law. All that you said about the ancients - I don't want to say the word the real thing that I should say to you, because you know very well or if you don't know it, leave the government immediately, you are dangerous - that even if someone wants to sell anciently, they can't, because the ancients are out of transaction. They belong to the archaeological legislation protected by the Constitution. So what you said was nonsense. You told her to hide the reality. What reality? That one life you've been racing for the ecology, water, forests, nature, but if Tsipras tells you tomorrow "To stay Minister, Tsironi, we'll make a helicopter with beetones and spray the forests with concrete", you'll vote and you'll come and tell us "What a great idea it was that Great Tsipras had!" So leave the plates. You're for your chair, little people. I want to go, but with Mr. Spirtzi...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u251	While we're laughing, you're ruining it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u252	Politicians! People...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u253	Get it back!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u254	Humans. You know why?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u255	You're insulting! Take it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u256	I don't take it back. You know why? Why a life...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u257	We're laughing at what you're saying, but be serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u258	Don't laugh at all! You've been fighting against privatization for a lifetime. And you come and give it all away!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u259	Come on, get serious!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u260	Come on, get serious!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u261	That's enough, though. Minister, stop this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u262	Not even 'humans'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u263	Yes, I understand. It's a bit of an intimate conversation, but don't do it now...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u264	Because I heard...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u265	Georgiadis now tells us...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u266	Minister, answer, answer you, answer again...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u267	But say something, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u268	I quit my job. You quit too! It separates us from a chair we left.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u269	All right! A lot of them separate us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u270	From you, Lafasan, in fact, was an ideologist. Life, in fact, was an ideologist. It's not you. You're for the chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u271	Mr. Georgiadis,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u272	Listen to me, Mr. Spirtzi. You had the inadmissibility and said to ALPHA's radio that I expected you to leave to speak yesterday, while you know that as a Member yesterday I was speaking in a certain time. I can't talk anytime. I spoke when the Bureau of Parliament had appointed to speak. You just happened to be gone. You should have been there. I don't have to wait, when you leave and when you stay. To finish this, why do I blame you directly for your moral formation? Mr. Kouloglu said this morning that Mr. Kalogritsa had a clear agreement before the competition with government officials, which an alliance could not be as strong as others. I am referring to television licences. Mr. Kouloglu is not the far right person you said. He is your MEP and Mr Kalogratis is your best man in this government. You happen to have given him the works. It happens to this government, Mr. Spirtzi, that you, the President of the TEI, put the mechanics' money on the Attica Bank, which has all been smoked. So I ask you, if all of them are to be summed up after each other in turn, how likely it is that the SYRIZA Government, as Mr Culloglu says, would have an alliance with a contractor who accidentally happened to be a best man with the Minister for Infrastructure of this government, who luckyly took most of the projects that he had taken over in the past twenty years with the Minister for Infrastructure, his contractor, whom the Minister for Infrastructure, by chance, changed the law so that he could break the works into pieces and which he accidentally took the loans from the bank to which the Minister for Infrastructure had carried all the money?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u273	Mr. Georgiadis, you're done. Seven-and-a-half minutes, we're done. Please restrain yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u274	Because lots of luck are gathered, Mr. Spirtzi, don't you tell us what you've done exactly? Because no one believes you anymore. I'm closing up with this. Don't ever listen to an interview again, you personally, let the others now - blame the PASOK. You Spirtz "pasoko" as old as you can, in the deep PASOK of all the old PASOK, go out and blame PASOK! They're laughing at the goats, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u275	Mr. Georgiades, thank you. You're closed. Minister, you have the floor, obviously for personal reasons. You're welcome, though, very quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u276	Mr President, thank you very much. In Parliament and the public, truths must be spoken. Yesterday at the beginning of the meeting we all kept one minute silence in memory of the late Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u277	The relentless.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u278	The relentless, as Mr. Voridis says. Unfortunately, at the end of the meeting this political culture was overturned by Mr Georgiadis accusing us of falling mud. It is what New Democracy and PASOK have been doing all the time, in cooperation with certain channels and specific entrepreneurs, both in my face and in the government and in other faces of the Ministerial Council. In fact, Mr. Papatheodorou, who is in the Chamber, accused us this morning of deceiving, me and Nikos Papa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u279	Uh, no. That's too much! We condemn it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u280	All right, all right. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u281	Minister, we said to shorten it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u282	No, we will not shorten this up because these charges are personal and are very important, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u283	What can we do? There's a lot of talk, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u284	I'm saying what they say. Rejoice the New Democracy. This is the New Democracy and the PASOK, the Democratic Reconciliation as it is now called. Mr Georgiadis, to learn today's PASOK with the PASOK of yesterday, the PASOK of the socialist direction with the PASOK of the Right and neoliberalism has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u285	But you blame PASOK, you're blaming it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u286	So let's go down for what you're accusing of. This is the New Democracy of yesterday, this is the New Democracy of today and the whole world can draw its conclusions. At the Bank of Attica, Mr President, when I was the President of the TEI, we made specific political decisions on increasing equity. Mr Stournaras, who was Minister at the time and then became Governor of the Bank of Greece, urged the fund not to enter into the capital increase, to give the bank to private individuals for a piece of bread. We resisted that because it would benefit someone else rather than the fund. Of course, because they've got a lot of levels out of the peninsula and New Democracy officials, the one who was responsible for this action, it's too much, it's not the TEE. The TEE makes a political decision. It's the cashier. So let's see who they were representatives of the fund. In 2012, representatives of the fund were the current president of the TEI, Mr. Stasinos. Where his role was - I will also table in the Minutes - he voted for 400 million in 2012 to increase the share capital. Mr. Vroutz was Minister when he took the decision, following the decision of the fund that was chaired by the Samara government-in-commanded here is Mr. Brutsis - Mr. Sellianakis - we have shared three - four times - and representatives of the TEE, the Bar Association and the medical club from all sides and the entire political spectrum. Of course they did. Mr. Brutsis signed. When did the bank recapitalise? One year after about 2015. Mr. Stasinos had left. Didn't know anything? Couldn't overthrow the decision? Anything? Let's go to the Attica Bank. Members of the Bank of Attica by the New Democracy Government and the previous governments on the board were Mr. Selianakis and Mr. Selianakis was the director of Mr. Venizelos, who is still in a subsidiary of the Bank of Attica, Mr. Vouvalas, who was the director of Mr. Staikora. He sent her...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u287	Minister, excuse me very much. You may then intervene in your normal discourse. You've been given the floor on personal grounds. Do you have to say all this when you can say it later?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u288	Of course it's necessary. Because we've been eating mud for about a month.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u289	But you can tell them later. You'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u290	Wait a minute. But he mentioned specific things about the Attica Bank, about contractors, about projects, etc. Let's go down. So he was the director of Mr. Venizelos and then his relative. Mrs. Ziegoli, director of Mr. Stakoura, was on the board of directors responsible for internal control. He then resigned and was recruited by the bank as Deputy Director of Internal Audit. What's he done all this time? Of course, the institution that carried out audits has been the Bank of Greece. To come to the Bank of Greece's findings in the House. To be made public about the Attica Bank and all banks, to end the story. There's a new command in the Attica Bank. The CEO, if anything else it was approved, not to say it was proposed by the Bank of Greece. Mr. Pantalakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u291	When do you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u292	Now. He made an announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u293	When did he go to the Kaloger's?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u294	Now I'll tell you. So he made a announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u295	Minister, excuse me. I repeat. I'm appealing. You have a regular speech in a moment. Can't you then say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u296	Count in my normal speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u297	Do I take away what you're saying now? Watch what you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u298	Not all of this can ever be answered. Yesterday Mr. Georgiadis also graduated. He said: 'lake and archival'. We don't know about the ribbons rating. Whoever's involved can say. But we'll answer if nothing else. Don't take that away from us. For God's sake. Let's go down to the Bank of Greece. Did the Bank of Greece carry out any checks? Where are the findings? Who do they say? Why doesn't he give it to the public? What's he been doing for so long? What did Mrs. Ziegoli, who was in the internal control and had, if anything, the proposal, the placement and tolerance of the current Governor of the Bank of Greece and was also the director of Mr. Staikoura?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u299	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u300	So far it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u301	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u302	Mrs. Ziggoli.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u303	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u304	I don't know well. You know it well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u305	In the second month of 2014, he stopped being in Mr. Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u306	He resigned from Stara's director and went to the bank. That's what I'm saying. Then she also resigned from the bank's dh who was in charge of internal control and went as Deputy Director-General to the Bank of Attica for internal control. That's where you don't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u307	Who put it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u308	You. Mr. Stavrous put her in.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u309	You've held it for two and a half years at the Attica Bank.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u310	Mr Stavros put it and explain why: The placements were then made by the Ministry of Finance, because there was a percentage of the Post Bank and the Deposit and Loan. But we're going to the following for the Kalogrisa projects and the Kalogrisa loans.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u311	How are we going next? You've been given the floor on personal grounds. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u312	Mr President, thank you for not letting me respond to the mud that they are throwing to me personally and to the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u313	I told you to count the time from my speech. What else can I tell you? I have an article in the draft law. I won't be too busy. [[Noise in the Chamber]] All right, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, From the Ministry of Infrastructure so far, Mr. Kalogritsa's company has not taken a project as long as SYRIZA is. There has been a competition for Patras - Tower, not for this project, for all projects, that there will be no major projects, to address those who have been supporting you for so many years, to the six major contractors. It's a transparent, transparent competition. When it is completed and goes to the Court of Auditors and it ends up, we will see whether the relevant bodies of the Ministry and of the Court of Auditors will award the work to the broker or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u314	Who's this broker?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u315	‘TOXOTIS’. He gave a bigger discount.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u316	So how'd he not get a job?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u317	Does the Minister take care of it? You've been through this ministry too. When you were Minister, you and then the next government of Samaras, Mr. Chrysochoidis, were entrusted to the same company, a consortium, which you are accusing us of, the "Sigri" project in Mytilini, with a 4% discount. And the "Olympia" your resignation to see with what discount it had been given. With zero percent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u318	Why was that my political friend, Calagris? Did Calogrits come to my political talks and I gave him the play?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u319	In the consortium that was Mr. Kaloggritsa, there were other contractors and they might be your friends.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u320	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u321	Their husbands were New Democracy officials in Piraeus, prefectures, in the same consortium. Listen. Mr. Kalogeritsa has contacts with you, Mr. Voridis. His partner is your President's right hand and his best man.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u322	When? Was Mr. Theodorikos a member of the New Democracy in '10?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u323	And it is. Now. Mr. Theodorikos of the GPO. It's now. You had close cooperation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u324	Collaboration of all colleagues in the infringement of the procedure, absolutely. The Bureau cannot do anything else!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u325	For the "Sigri" project in Mytilini if there is responsibility, Mr. Voridis, you and Mr. Chrysochoidis. You are not responsible for the orders then given by the services for additional work - I have looked into it too much. But this hasn't come to my office either. To understand how the New Democracy and DIS system works, this has not even come to my office for signature. After all, you need to clear up a few things in your communication policy. Or Mr. Kalogeritsa has taken all these projects, loans, money and he will have money and he will have a channel and anything else - and we do everything as a government to serve him - or he comes in and takes part in the competition equally - and this is what happens either someone's name is Kalogerica or whatever they say, we have told him a thousand times - and he goes out unless he does not meet the conditions and conditions of the competition. That's true for everyone. Now for the rest of Mr Georgiadis and anyone else, we do not return them, we do not honestly have this level and the political level and within Parliament's Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u326	Apparently, Minister, you know you've almost finished your speech, haven't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u327	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff? He mentioned me three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u328	Mr. Georgiades, wait a minute. He mentioned you three times, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u329	Mr President, I will need two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u330	I will only give you the floor for two minutes, Mr. Georgiadis. Help me, please too!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u331	Minister, I expected you to come and answer honestly. Your image - in my honor's word - was weeping. You were shaking like a fish. We caught you "with the sprout on your back". Firstly and above all, Mr Stasinos concealed that he voted against the increase of Attica Bank in the WEU.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u332	TEI no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u333	She voted against it at the TE, Mr. Spirtzi. Mr. Selianakis, you mentioned, also voted against, so you are among you in the courts. You've got a number of names involved, but you forgot to say Mr. Gabrielle's name. Do you know Mr. Gambrilis, the President of Attica Bank? Was it in your combination, Mr. Spirtzi?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u334	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u335	It was in your combination. So what are you telling us? You tell us it was all the others' fault for what happened except for the President of the TEI, that is, you, and the former president of the bank. It was everyone else's fault. Now listen to how pathetic you are. You said earlier to Mr Voridis: 'You did not do the work, Mr Voridis, the services did it transparently.' But SYRIZA has blamed us for all the previous years - here are the SYRIZA Members - that the government of interlocutory, we, were giving the work to our friends. And He now comes Minister of SYRIZA and says to the House: "No minister of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, all became transparent by the services." Why? To say it's not his fault for Calogrica. To save himself, gentlemen, if you didn't understand it, it ruined your entire account of the last five years. You're so pathetic! You said the worst. You said about PASOK "the old PASOK, the present". Of course I agree with that. Only when you say in your interviews "PASOK and New Democracy have destroyed Greece forty years" to which PASOK you refer, Mr Spirtzi, to the present or the old good, the socialist, to which you were a protagonist in all things? We all agree on what we're all talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u336	We don't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u337	So we know well. The Greek society knows, you don't have to. Are you the new one in Greece, the archbishop? Now listen to us getting to know each other. The name "Goodness" will be after you for a very long time. Do you know why he'll come after you? Because the bank of people who trusted you with their money and you took it as President at the TEI and always the captain has responsibility and does not go around the crew to take it down, you did it and they have lost today, Minister, 92% of their value. You say you did it so that some strangers don't get the benefit. That's a great benefit! The engineers who trusted you lost and voted for 92% of their money. Do you know what else you didn't say, Mr. Spirtzi? Why did Mr. Kalogeritsa get the loan to SYRIZA Government, Mr. Spirtzi? Does it make any difference that he was coming to Mr. Pappa's election speeches? You also didn't answer Mr. Kouloglu. What government factors did the SYRIZA MEP mean today that they had alliances with government officials, Mr Spirtzi or Mr Springe, who I told you yesterday and was saddened by the President-in-Office of SYRIZA? Well, listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u338	Mr. Georgiadis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u339	You didn't answer anything. We caught you "with the sprout on your back". You were shaking like a fish. You're pathetic. You should apologize to the engineers for losing all their money.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u340	Mr Colleague, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u341	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u342	Minister, there's obviously a personal matter. Please very much, the staff can be answered in a minute. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u343	I will be very brief, Mr President. Here I have the EFF minutes of 2012, which Mr Stasinos is voting for the EUR 400 million, which the EFF is responsible for.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u344	Who's he representing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u345	The Technical Chamber. But if nothing else... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Listen. In 2014 he had made a decision. So we don't fool ourselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u346	He has voted for the 'yes' TEI, he has voted 'no' and you are asking for...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u347	Also, if you want, you can hear me. I heard you as Holy Mary. You said it was pathetic, that I was running.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u348	He's been chasing you for many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u349	He's not after us. They're not after us like that, Mr. Georgiadis. We've been provoking you to bring something that you've been accusing us, in particular, not of mud in the fan. Keep going. Let's ask you, then. Is the loans of the New Democracy and the PASOK at the Attica Bank served? Are they guaranteed? Is all this mud so you don't have to report your parties' loans to the bank accused of being "SYRIZA bank"? Yes or no? Tell us about it. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Do you pay the doses? Or do you sludge the fan?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u350	Will you give it from your pocket to the engineers, the things that have been lost?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u351	We've been through this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u352	You did, but you can pay a bill at the engineer's bank.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u353	Ladies and gentlemen, I think the Minister has explained. Thank you very much. Minister Tsakalotos wants the floor for a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u354	After this direct and sincere exchange of views, I should like to present some legislative improvements to you. At the end of the title of the draft law, the words 'and other provisions' are added, because what was also proposed by Mr Papagelopoulos. At the beginning of paragraph 3 of Article 2, the words ‘Without prejudice to the limitations resulting from the Constitution and the obligation to comply with judgments’ shall be added. As you can see, this has something to do with NSATH and HSAAP. It also has a small addition, which is in the explanatory statement. I am not telling you the first, because it does not matter, just to introduce it. It is clarified that the exploitation of the companies listed in Annex V does not in any case include the alienation of the Greek State, as the sole shareholder of the company, by the majority of the capital of "ESDP S.A." and by the identity of the legal word, "ITH S.A.", according to the case-law of the Council of State and says the number of plenary, which was that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u355	Thank you, Minister. My colleague, Mrs Fotini Arabaji, from the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u356	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again with express procedures, the House is, of course, called upon to ratify a part of Alexis Tsipras' tough negotiation. But what is this tough negotiation and its results? You have been exposed to SYRIZA's gentlemen and you have revealed yourself hard and officially by the Vice-President of the Commission itself. "Greece now applies stricter austerity measures than it would be necessary if the reforms of the previous government continued," said Dombrovskis, adding, of course, that "it has now been understood to everyone that populism does not solve the problems". Of course this took you a few years to understand it and, unfortunately, it cost the Greek economy more than EUR 80 billion. So, obviously, you sent the Thessaloniki programme, the parallel program and all the other heavy election announcements in the basket of the useless of the Great Maximos, since, of course, you previously deceived the citizens to get power and chairs, chairs that interest you above all and above all. To maintain this power, you do not hesitate to operate even anti-institutionally, even anti-constitutionally. All this unconstitutional action is allegedly baptized as a battle against interlocutory. Except, obviously, you haven't gotten a hammer that the complication has the color of SYRIZA. When, of course, the battle against interlocutor doesn't make you pass away, you also throw a Friend to the arena to blur the waters and stimulate the sense of your ideoleptic fans with your anti-religious rhetoric. When the hierarchy clears you, you, too, empty Mr. Friend and all the milk. What should anyone first want, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? The popular referendums on the public character of water? Your threats to us for special courts and hangers, because we wanted - he says - to privatise PPC? The dozens of protests and strikes, because we were selling TRAINOSE, supposedly, sharp? And now? Now, of course, without any sign of shame, you applaud your rapporteur and your Minister, because he carries the waters, PPC, TRAINOSE, the measure in the famous Privatisation Fund and has the courage to say that, while he is a minister, he will not be privatised. Then let others take responsibility. I'm really wondering about these prerequisites, isn't Mr. Spirtz going to cry? He won't vote with pain of soul? What happened? Did you lose your sensitivity or don't you have time to deal with Mr. Kalogritsa and his pastures? The only positive day, of course, today, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is that you put tombstones on your own in all the myths and stories that you have been saying for years, with which fairy tales you have flouted the Greek people and took authority. All these myths are now sacrificed to the altar of subserving EUR 2.8 billion. For, ladies and gentlemen, four months after the infamous insurance bill, this tax-payer, the second tax-payer, costing 2 billion pension cuts and 12 billion tax-paying, you are coming today - without any shame, of course - without any additional - with provisions which are more unfavourable - to ensure this subsistence. And because there's no limit to the nerve and political vulgarity, you're coming and you're clearing everything that's saved from your fingernails for peasants, young professionals, young scientists. So there, where four months ago you were talking about gradually adjusting farmers' insurance contributions to health by 2019, you are currently coming in monotonous and putting these insurance contributions of 6.95% from 1-1-2017, since, of course, you have, of course, launched their insurance contributions in respect of their pensions. Why, Minister, - I do not know if it is your statement or Mr Petroulos, we are a little confused - farmers are not only invited to pay EUR 13 more in insurance contributions, as you have just mentioned. Farmers in the most popular insurance category, the third insurance category, according to the notes they receive, pay more than EUR 129. Hey, 129 euros more for their pension, 9 euros, which Mr Petropoulos underestimated yesterday for health contributions, comes the bill. Similarly, the social, friendly and sensitive face of the Left is not exhausted, of course, to farmers. It also goes on to young professionals, from whom the privilege of paying reduced health insurance contributions for the first five years of their professional life is abolished. Obviously, you ignore that one out of two free professionals is unable to pay its current insurance contributions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need one minute, with your tolerance, Mr President. The same is true, of course, socially sensitive, and you also prove to the owners of tourist accommodation, these small- and medium-sized professionals, who are active and employing a worker, in areas with less than two thousand inhabitants. So what do you tell them? You say to them "stop it until first favourable OGA status and go to OAU and pay 27% of your income in insurance contributions". What do you tell them in other words? You say to them "or put a lock on your micro-enterprises - which obviously escapes you from strengthening local economies and societies - or rent blacks". Of course, your momentum towards the 'black' economy is not new, unfortunately, if you think, Mr Ministers, of the tax evasion orgy that you are permitted by the gray rentals of tourist accommodation. And I am glad that Mr Chakalotos is here because he is the responsible person. You have left these grey leases of tourist accommodation to function, Minister, through the uncontrolled mismanagement of the economy of sharing which, of course, you, through an act, uno facto, have completely freed them, as soon as you have assumed authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u357	Ladies and gentlemen, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u358	I shall conclude, Mr President. You were under the impression that you could cheat on everyone forever. Today's bill, unfortunately, reveals to you and reveals to you in the eyes of those who supported you the two elections. The countdown for you started and the evil for you is that you will not have the SYRIZA channel to help you. So much trouble to get a channel and eventually you were left with the pastures, the lies and the perforations "when you had" to catch and tan it, supposedly, moral advantage of the Left. The people and democracy will win and the country will be rid of the worst government in the last decades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u359	My colleague, Nikolaos Moraitis, from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, Mr President. It was just a moment ago that a polluting fight between government and anti-population was set up here, but with one aim clearly: to raise a helmet, to hide your enormous responsibilities for what the people's family is experiencing today. You can't hide it. Your strategic partnership is the same. The anti-population attack on the workers, in the wide-popular strata, is not perfect, end date. And the prerequisites come after each other, the tails of the memorandum. But not all of this is just a consequence of the third symbiote memorial. The third memorandum speeds up, speeds up these reforms. But all this is not just a consequence of the third symbiote memorial. The third memorandum speeds up, speeds up these reforms. All that we are discussing today and what we are going to do is implement guidelines for the European Union of monopolistic groups. It's a requirement of big capital. The government presents these measures, the new storm that comes with the second assessment as a necessity. And it reassurs the people that their implementation will meet the targets and will not have to implement the backup package, the cutter, the new slaughterhouse. This is how you blackmail the workers, the wide popular layers in the dilemma. You will keep the road open for the next ones that will come sooner or later. You call on the people to identify themselves with the objectives of capital. You will always fly the debt cheese, as if the people were going to benefit from any arrangement. Let's go to the plan we're talking about now. Go to the Supreme Court of PPC, EKDAP, EKATH, "Attitude Metro", "Building Infrastructure", ELVO. And then all the time. You won't let anything stand. And all this didn't come all of a sudden. It is part of the general planning of the capital for the recovery and the infrastructures available for its profitability. It is infrastructural and business that has been done with the blood and sweat of the workers. You're giving a new hit to the new scientists. You told them that they would pay reduced insurance contributions for five years at the start of their career to stand on their feet. Now, by the coronation of the new insurance law, you're taking them to the looting right away. You're making the acquisition of the fictitious times more accurate. Reduce the discount for the single redemption from 15% to 2%. Do you know, gentlemen of the government, who are primarily in need of real-time takeovers? It is those who reach retirement ages and the policy implemented over time has led them to unemployment and do not have the necessary insurance days. It's another example of your class policy. You're hitting the impoverished. With the multi-brand plan, we have a new attack on poor medium-sized farms, following the storm of the anti-agricultural measures brought in by the third memorandum, added to the measures of the previous memoranda - which you were going to have to fight against - and the CAP's agricultural policy. And we need to remind you here of what the third memorandum that you have all voted on together provided for. There was an increase in VAT from 13% to 23% - which later went to 24% - in all means and supplies. In three, four days we have abolished the refund on agricultural oil which will increase oil by 15 minutes a litre. We have from 01-01-2017, that is, in three months' increase of 8 minutes in diesel traffic. In short, in other words, farmers will buy oil at almost twice the price, which will eject production costs and lead a number of farmers to dismantle. But you'll leave them in the cold. Because they won't be able to pay the expensive heating oil coming in fifteen days. We had an increase in the wine tax. In the end there will be increases in ELGA and OGA. And the list isn't over. Now, with the plan today, we are evacuated to see farmers' health contributions to 7%, almost 01-01-2017, which, as you promised, would go from 01-01-2019. This will be added to the increase in premiums, which are four other units, as provided for in the new insurance. So what do we have? Insurance contributions as a whole, health and insurance contributions together, which will reach 300 euros a year for one person and 600 euros for a couple. Of course, I don't know how Mr. Petropoulos with these Syrian mathematics told us that this would be around eight to ten euros a month. Of course, here we have to point out that the insurance of farmers has been retrospectively carried out. Although the law will apply from 01-01-2017, you went the farmers' insurance contributions from 01-01-2016. We believe that these contributions will evacuate the percentage of uninsured farmers from 50%, which is currently 70% to 80%. In short, no poor, medium-sized farmer will be able to pay the premiums. Also, there is a new measure that you bring with the multiplier. Go insured in areas of less than two thousand inhabitants, who had few rooms to complete their income, from OGA to OAU. And what did Mr. Katrugalos say to us? That they're businessmen. No, Mr. Catrugale, they're not businessmen. They are the ones that have been stolen from your policy, they are the ones who are trying to complete their poor income. All of this is taken back even though you had to give something under pressure and struggles and farms and other workers. Workers of poor farmers, professionals and young scientists must not be deceived as to what awaits them. To say now, 'no more', to organize their struggle, to dissuade the new poplar that comes, to alleviate the consequences of the measures, to claim solutions for today, to open up roads and prospects to satisfy modern expanded people's needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary spokesman for the People's League - Golden Dawn, Mr Christos Pappas, has spoken for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u362	The bill under discussion follows on from the Memorandum of Understandings of the Government, the Government of lenders and loan-to-formers. It includes measures which, unfortunately, are not complete. Because new measures will follow and other measures will come. Measures such as increasing health reservations for OGA insured persons, unbearable charges for small tourist enterprises, i.e. tourist accommodation up to 10 rooms, measures which have a major impact on young professionals, which have been able to pay reduced contributions for the first five years of their insurance. And it affects young professionals in the industry, that is, these bold professionals who have, unfortunately, invested in a food or coffee shop, because only such shops now open up in Greece. What about the primary sector? Any primary production in Greece, for the sake of the European choices of New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA has been erased in Greece. At one time, the ordinary world in daily conversation said 'we will end up with the wardrobes of Europe'. The bitter truth is that that's what's happening. All of them were absolutely right. Our country is now a country of cheap tourist destination, without infrastructure that should have been in the public interest for us. SYRIZA and New Democracy are transferring with the additional Memorandum, which together you voted in August 2015, the entire public property, through the U.S.O., to private individuals and even to a minimum price. The most characteristic example is the sale of 'TRAINOSE', the value of which was more than EUR 300 to 400 million - there was an offer from friends of the Russian Federation - to sell at last EUR 45 million to the Italians, that is, five million less than Mrs Angelopoulos Daskalaki's yacht was sold. For us, the nationalists, the Greek patriots, there are no debates on these issues. Health, education, transport, communications, energy, national defence, social welfare are fundamental rights to society and must belong to all of us and to no silver-dominated private Greek or foreigner. Only then is the prospect of national independence, which is the vision and purpose of the folk nationalist movement of the Golden Dawn. I would like to add, therefore, that, apart from what I have just said, through the excess fund, private individuals will pass the public-sector corporations PPC, PPC, ELVO, "Building Infrastructures", PPC, ELVO. Another step towards the completion of the divestment of public property and the removal of the right to state control, as must be done in a favoured state in the strategic areas of our economy, which are transport, energy, the war industry. It's not all in the hands of the Greeks. But, ladies and gentlemen, that is not all you need. It is not enough that you, defenders and signifiers of the European Union and the memorandum, jointly sell a piece of national property, but commit our country - and you have the courage and say it is not a sale, but it is a provision - for ninety years. In other words, you are basically selling the Greeks' public property. You jointly voted for the divestment, the sale of the Greek to a private person now, last week. For the Greek, the "bilet" that Samaras said in 2012 and 2013, it took you three years to realise the vision of a right! We nationalists are neither neo-communists nor neo-liberals. We are Greek patriots who believe in our homeland and fight for the progress and interest of the Greek people. For us, protecting your family, health and progress of your children, protecting your home, your property - if you have - to keep traditions and to receive the dogma of Greek orthodox from your parents, to be proud when blue-white, all of this for us is a purpose of life and to you it is xenophobia and racism. For us, the most honest and pure, the most natural thing is to protect your family, your tribe, your homeland, the most sacred concepts in this life. Anyone who goes against them is against their own nature. That's exactly what you all do. It is not enough, therefore, to destroy the Greek economy, to characterize and enslave the Greeks, to divest their property and to strip our homeland from its national security. I say this because at the moment we are discussing it must be known to the people who are listening to the supplementary plan for the divestment of public property, that is, today's bill. So, apart from today's bill, in secret, without publicity, with the guilty silence of coexistence and counter-population, as well as with the guilty silence of the media, you contribute to a terrific scandal, a national betrayal. So listen. And I am not saying this for you, because you know that, because you do this, I say it for the Greek people who are currently seeing us, to understand the last point in which the most betrayal and sinful cycle of postmopolisis arrives. Greeks and Greeks, Greece's airspace is granted to a private company. SYRIZA's Left and the Right of ANELs sell our national independence against another loan of their indebted parties. The officials of the memoranda thus also grant the continental shelf, since the continental shelf of the islands is now being abolished. The Government, by Ms. Spirtzis' Minister, announced to the President of Civil Aviation that, on a mandate from the European Union, the control of FIR Athens will no longer be carried out by the Civil Aviation, but an anonymous company will be set up that will enter the superstate and be granted to a private person. The issue began, when Greece co-signed with their European partners, Norway and Switzerland, the Single European Sky regulation, a regulation which, while initially providing for the freedom of air transport in the European sky, in the European space, eventually developed into a European airspace management and control regulation. Here are the Minutes. The Sabbath national newspaper “EMPROS” headlined on September 24, 2016 has a similar revealing post: “Saving national sovereignty. In private, the FIR Athens FIR’. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is the disgrace, the national betrayal, which follows the original national betrayal of postmultiple and Karamanlis with "Attila 2". And, of course, questions arise, which are for us nationalists self-evidently. Once again, to facilitate the Greeks who see us at the moment, I shall refer to some of them. What will be the consequences and modifications with the sale essentially of our airspace in terms of our national security? In times of crisis, what will be the role of the private? Are we leading to new national concessions in the Aegean through a regulation of the European Union and the concession of FIR Athens to a private person? In conclusion, Mr President, I am delighted that the third political power of the country, the Golden Dawn, is making a decisive contribution to the big issue of red loans. In what way? Yesterday you did not accept the Golden Dawn amendment that was intended to be proposed first to the owner at the price that will receive the house the fund, take it from the owner rather than the fund. That is our amendment, which you have not accepted. And today the ANELs and they copy this amendment of the Golden Dawn, and we are particularly interested in the development that this amendment will take until the vote. You're all so democrats. The Golden Dawn amendment cannot be accepted, the ANEL amendment is 'playing'. Let's see. Let it be. Let it be, Mr President. In addition, honesty and morality distinguishes ANELs, your President and you! I would add that free man the inspiration of the expression "four" and his entry into the next House all show that it will be a dream of summer night, putting an end to the deception of the patriots who voted for him. Mr. Pano Cammene, outfits, now just Halloween. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is a occupied country, defeated in an economic war. It is defeated thanks to the quintophagites of the New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA and ANEL. It is a country that has been sold out, a banner literally, where state structures are operating thanks to the fate and ambition of some state officials. A country occupied by sea, land and air. In the Aegean we are swayed by NATO's "flakes", under the pretext of the illegal immigration crisis, but also by foreign secret services perpetuate the country. And to highlight this morbid situation, I reveal from the Stepma that there have recently been two containers in Greece of the secret services of Israel for which it has been required not to undergo customs or any other control of content. To get in and out of the country without control. And the railroads that rule us, they gave it this permission. Reduced national sensitivity and a sense of duty have become literally a clear vineyard. Anyone who wants to enter the country undisturbed. In his own home, however, none of them would want anyone to enter undisturbed, uninvited, take over a room and tell him: Make me free food now. That's exactly what all of you weepers, so-called merciful politicians in our own country have done. Uh, no, this is our house. It's the home of the Greek people. We nationalists will defend this house at every price. And you all know that this proud people were not afraid of Sultans, they were not afraid of empires. Will he be afraid of Tsipras and Mitsotakis? No matter how many laws you make, any lacquer of power and mobilize or not, the spark of the National Resistance will spontaneously light up. One, two, three, many Oriokastras for home and freedom.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you of the progress of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u364	Mr President, some insults have been said about our President. I'd like a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u365	Let me announce the evolution of the debate and we'll see it later, Mr. President. Next is Mr Vagionas, Mrs Manolakos, Mr Ursouzidis, Mrs Kanelli, Mr Brutsis, the Parliamentary Representative of Mr Pafilis, Mr Christos Dimas and others. At 17.00 a.m. Mr Chakalotos wants the floor for twelve to fifteen minutes. I would like to say to you that we still have too many colleagues written to speak and, given that at noon, Mrs Christodoulopoulos's proposal to the House to close our debate at around 20.00, to do so immediately after the votes, she was accepted, I must tell you that, from now on, every colleague, who is in breach of time, must know that he has the opportunity to speak to his colleagues. I will therefore do everything I can, with all the rigour I can to deal with the debate, but it is not easy at all if a colleague is called upon to stop and insist. Mr Colleague, you obviously want to talk about the reference to the President of your party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u366	There were some insults...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u367	By concession you have the floor. Be brief. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u368	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. I would like to say, Mr President, that these insults, which come from the Golden Dawn, are an honor for us. I would really be worried if I listened to praise from the Golden Dawn. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Georgios Vagionas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u370	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u371	What exactly do you want, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u372	It's a personal issue but also a political one. I am very sorry, as a Parliamentary representative, I had to be here all the time. But I was in the Committee of Inquiry. Mr. Maniotis was at a meeting we had. A number of things have been said about us by Minister. I therefore request the floor as a parliamentary representative of a parliamentary party for an answer to the Minister for two minutes. My location has personal characteristics too. I would ask you and my colleagues to give me the floor. Others talked about us without us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u373	Mr Loverdo, you are right, because there have been many references to PASOK in relation to the past and the present and, obviously, you have a sensitivity to answer. However, I would ask you to be very brief. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u374	I wouldn't even do it for the media. I said at the beginning of my speech that I made a comment on the misery of the alleged competition, because the Minister did. I would not, while respecting that we have a very specific agenda today. So now, I didn't mean to take the floor. I know the economy of our work but discrimination from the ministers of this government - with many problems - about good and bad PASOKs, they raise answers. The first answer, Minister, to tell your colleague is that what he says as good PASOK is what you centrally blame as a party and as government responsibility for the past. Find them between you two before you contact us. But we still don't care about Mr Spirtzi's relationships with SYRIZA and with the government. However, we are concerned with something else, Mr President, which is a great deal of truth. Since 2012, power has been shown to be moving to SYRIZA. There were then PASOK officials and members, who worshipers of power, who saw where she went and followed the current. Some of them went completely to SYRIZA. Hello to them, they're happy! They will have thoughts for them both in the next days and in the stages of history. But some people played it for six days SYRIZA and the days off at the PASOKs. These misery is known throughout Greece. We are not concerned, Mr President-in-Office. One thing concerns us: transparency everywhere. And we are in a position - because even in the case of Chohatzopoulou, now yours, but then our own Member, has taken as President of the Committee of Inquiry relevant initiatives - to tell you: Whoever it is, if it is responsible, and wherever it is, and where the Pope of Rome is, to take care of the way in which you address us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u375	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Bagiona, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u376	Mr President, Minister, this bill, which you are bringing today, let me assume that it has come from the evil one. He came from the evil because he came four months ago with a similar bill and petted some social groups, such as farmers, some with rented rooms, young scientists, some tax relief, only insurance. But today you get everything back or almost everything, to satisfy you. You do not want to believe that you grant all the Greek property to the great superstition, which you created. And that is of the evil, because you are ignoring the TIAD, in my view, and take it into consideration. What does that superstition say? It is composed of five members. The three of you and the two of you are putting Europe together. We know who they've got. But Parliament is outside of them. There will be no case of disagreement and I see unanimity very difficult for the four members to vote on. This is claimed by many of the ministers, the premier of the Minister of Finance. Anyway, you've found a mess, you've received a mess. Yeah, did you find out what mess? He promised the Prime Minister 12 billion benefits in January in Thessaloniki and paid 12 billion taxes. The Leventis, Mr. Varoufakis, came and did not accept the 12 billion. And we're not talking about planetary leaves. No. Mercy. With the superstition, then, the ICT is being smashed. And it's not assigned, it says, PPC's share of 14%, but we give 34% of it and when IPTO withdraws from PPC for good, then it can go 51% of it to the excess. For God's sake, you've put excessive taxes on accommodation. But I will tell you, for my country of Halkidiki, which has thirty-six thousand enterprises with accommodations. 85% of them are under ten beds. They had a farm contribution. Now, you're saying 20% of income. You know, what increase is in the pocket of these poor farmers, craftsmen, workers who did some rental rooms to double, triple - if you like - their income? These are, then, of the wicked, that is, you have bleeded in all things. Young doctors, lawyers, engineers do not have the right of five years to have insurance benefits. And I found that with evidence, when the Athens Bar Association saw its contributions increased when it reduced the amount of the contributions. You're coming now and what are you doing? You bring them to have the standard contributions from 1 January 2017. So half of them either close their offices or leave abroad and continue the migration of scientists outwards. To conclude, I would like to say this: I have listened very carefully to almost all the speakers, but in particular to the Deputy Minister of Labour, who is a well-known lawyer, who returned me in 2008, when an insurance bill came from New Democracy making the forty-seven funds three. It was a lyric of reaction. And I use that heavy expression because Mr Petropoulos used it yesterday in committee. He said New Democracy reacted with rabies. Alas, if it can't be criticized when the New Democracy wanted to say in the 2008 bill that, when it comes to giving an insurance fund of 20% and on top of an additional pension increase, a joint ministerial decision is needed. It was SYRIZA who fought with rabies and that amendment did not pass. And forty-seven didn't become three, but they became thirteen. Then there had to be a fund, which was carried out at a late stage, that is to say, after Greece entered with the PASOK Government into the International Monetary Fund. I don't want to misuse my time. I'm closing up with this: I'm afraid ninety-nine years. And for my country that is adjacent to Mount Athos, I don't think you're gonna give that up, either. But I don't see the Acropolis very sure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u377	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague from the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u378	Thank you, Mr President. Apart from television licenses, complex and intertwined, there is also the new cycle of barbarism with the other prerequisites of the first evaluation. The Government is promoting them quickly, as is required by the Greek Industrial Association and by the capital as a whole. You're saying you're not privatising. You were talking about the Greek. Yet, by the law of 1953, which you called colonial, and kept him unscathed, you gave it. On this occasion, I also present the announcement of the Association of Archaeologists for the archaeologicals of the Greek for Mr. Tsironi, as well as for today's. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolaku, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] You're pressed, you legislated them and, before they're put in place, you get them back. Why would anyone believe you? You're harmless. In the farm everything Mr. Tsipras promised, you get it back. In the health care contribution from a gradual increase until 2019, it is now axecurate. The increase? Over 47%. Instead of slaying with Daddy, you're slain with the axe. Today, 40% has no contribution. With these axe measures, of course, they will increase even further. But it is provocative and cheap the way Mr Petropoulos presents this increase yesterday. It says: 'Nothing the amount, the increase of EUR 9 per month for each farmer'. The increase is 47% and the total amount you take in addition from the farmers' pocket is EUR 74 million. And that's not all. In addition, you get them from the great increase in agricultural oil, pension contributions, the new raisin in water and so on. Ultimately you disguise them properly and cause them to be nothing like these extra millions. Charge small- and medium-sized farms in every way and using any new tool. You are grabbing back that you were forced to promise under pressure from the big farm blocks. They'll come back even more forgiving. Be sure. But also the self-employed young scientists do not let them live from the start of working life. Through mobilizations, they pushed to keep a crumb in the first five years to have reduced contributions for healthcare. Before applying, remove it in the piercing of an eye. That's right. To the capitalist you give subsidies, free money, tax exemptions on sacks and free workers. To owners up to 10 rooms, the increase in their insurance contribution is over 43%. What does that mean? That you take them from small- and medium-sized ones and lead them to non-subsistence. This is how you implement the objective of the European Union, namely, economic growth. We have a concentration and concentration in the tourism industry to absorb the large and the small and medium-sized ones. And don't justify being for the expensive islands like Mykonos, the measure. It's horizontal and it's all over the territory. And that's not enough. Moreover, you are preventing and making it difficult for workers with mature rights who lack little, when you have even made the insurance worse by raising the threshold to sixty-seven years. It's inhuman. As far as the grant of the surplus is concerned, you say that you will not proceed to privatisation. Why did you then transfer them to the overseer to schools, hospitals, universities? Yet the outsiders are shouting about the heavy consequences for workers and people. Are these your values, as the majority rapporteur said? At the same time, it is hypocritical to stand by the Officerial Response and the other parties. They voted for a third memorandum. That's part of it. You are portraying the unscrupulous to hide that this anti-popular government policy is your own policy. And mocking and hypocrisy goes cloud. Finally, we say clearly and call on the working class and the popular strata not to accept the mockery of the government and the kicking of their lives. No rest and no waiting. On the other hand, they must be aggressive and decisive in recovering the losses and overthrowing this harsh anti-popular policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. George Ursouzidis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u380	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the country after the July 2015 agreement and especially after the September elections, has drawn up a new course. A course which we must respect for ourselves, ensuring as much as possible the interests of the Greek people, while honouring the promise of our signature. The same must be done by the partners in what they have explicitly committed themselves to about the sustainability of the debt, as they have set it. That is what we all confess. What society expects from us at this stage is to end what is called 'prerequisites', so that the citizens of this country finally calm down, because the situation in Greece in recent years cannot continue. This law is the last stage of the prerequisites for disbursing the EUR 2.8 billion instalment, of which EUR 1.7 billion will go to public debts due to businesses, and therefore to the market that has been kneeling for many years in a market with major liquidity problems. He'll give thousands of businesses and workers, but also their insurance funds. In particular, now with the bill - colleagues have said it - I will focus on a few points. As far as insurance is concerned, there is indeed a change in the one-off payment of those who have not completed the years, reduced to 2% per year by 15% in a previous bill. Another change concerns the abolition of tourist accommodation owners, up to ten rooms, but subject to conditions, since they do not mainly engage in farming, that is to say, since their income does not exceed 51% of the farm's farm. The payment of reduced contributions for health care for the first five years of insurance of the new professionals of the single insurance fund of self-employed persons shall also be abolished. And to be more specific: the 4,73 that applied in 2017, 5,84 for 2018 and 6,95 for 2019, will now be 6,95 from 2017. And, of course, there will be absolutely no change in the way it is in the case of insurance contributions, which are not affected. What happened to self - employed people until a precedent is known. I'm a professional, mechanic. Either I or my new colleague are invited to pay around EUR 5 000 a year. If one takes into account that, today, 80% of the engineers - and of the lawyers, I would say - are saying income from EUR 7 to EUR 10 000, you realise that the contribution will be reduced to 50%. And that's right and fair. There's no sign of populism in it, because that's what the market can give. That's money we're making today. Not to say that the five thousand to a man who wins 10 thousand, to a free trader, corresponds to 50% or even 60% of one time only for insurance contributions. The fourth chapter relates to OSE and TRINOSE and issues relating to the management of rolling stock. I will only mention the 'TRAINOSE' because much has been said in the past. It's not true what it sounds like that only 45 million was sold to the company. The company is known to have a burden of 1.7 billion, plus 45 million. Cumulative losses amount to EUR 870 000, short-term commitments of EUR 769 000, without compromising the threatened situation by the European Commission, for illegal aid amounting to EUR 750 000. As a result, 45 million is more like 2.5 billion. Therefore, it was a valid cause for further adverse economic effects on the country's economy. The faster the Greek State is being exempted from such burdens, the sooner growth and prosperity conditions will be created for the benefit of the citizens. In the second chapter, reference shall be made. There has already been too much heard in relation to the companies that go through the holding company. I just want to say two things. The so-called surplus fund has nothing to do with the FIFG. The TAPD had a unique objective to divest the Greek property in order to serve the public debt. The relevant fund has the government. There is control by Parliament and the fund's strategic plan is approved by the Minister of Finance. From the revenues of the Fund, 50% goes to investment and growth, 50% to the debts due to the current loan contract of 2015 and not to the other debt, the large debt. What has been heard about the fund for ninety years and other tragedies, the Greek people already understood the great lie in order to create impressions. I would remind you of all the funds you yourself had set up as a government, ‘Recommendation of the Greek hydrocarbon recovery company, No. 4001/2011, ninety-nine years’. There are other companies. Let me just remind you that the recent convention we have ratified in relation to the Greek, also has a duration of ninety-nine years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please, your tolerance. I've never given any rights. Things are just like this, but, unfortunately, they didn't tell the big channels on time. Speaking of channels, and generally of pimps, as Kostas Karamanlis and you of the Officers, were then applauding the new Prime Minister, do you really feel any guilt, no complicity with the citizens who have been running these channels for three decades without paying a single cent to the Greek State? And a young man, without commitment, Mr. Tsipras, took them within three months 250 million over the next ten years. But today, as your Chief says, you will return to them. Will you pay them back with interest? And you'll get them from where and give them where? This money will go to the poor people who need it. Is it ever reasonable? One more thing, one more thing. Don't forget to return all three million to Mr. Kalogerica. Be fair and objective and humiliated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Lianna Kanelle, from the JRC, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I bet you are waiting for me, a man who has forty-four years of careers, careers, bread, life on television, to talk to you about television and licences. I won't do you a favor for a very serious reason. I know so much that I have to die. You know so much about this matter, which you should die too, as the jokes of American films say. I shall, however, speak to you, on television terms, on communiqué terms, on the policy of the alleged, urgent bill, which is, in fact, part of the obligations arising from the third memorandum, which arose after the second elections resulting from the change in the result of the de facto referendum and not de jure. And I would ask you very much to listen to me as a man who knows. You cannot create a false picture of the sufferings of the Greeks, accusing everyone and everything for the creation of an image. You can't fake transparency when outside and inside we're all witnesses non papers leaving naturally in the way. That's how work is done in this system forty years and there's going to be another forty years. This system leaves no papers from Maximus and from all ministries. What are they? Transparency defenders? Image makers? Are they addressing who? To performers, who are recipient journalists, who are in the newspapers and tell them, say that, say that, say it, say it, say it, say it, say it, and they make a title? There are Pul journalists, i.e. everyone together. There are in the fronts, in the wars. They have eaten in the face of "side losses". They still have the fish and the people around the Balkans and the Adriatic graphite bombs, but it was a holy act, even vs. Kon Bendit. Have you made a strategic choice to be within the European Union? The European Union is like Denmark when it comes to making money. The Danish government will pay one and a half million journalists who are "poll" in the Panama Papers - to teach its own people to take them tax. What is this country? Did I get a canal or a Spirtz or a Katrugalos? What's the country? You can't come here and say it's worse than the last American. Yesterday Clinton fought with the other one: "I? You have no strength." "How! I have great strength." 'I was 11 hours in the committee'. Hey, good! We have been swept away for a year and a half,'seven hours of tough negotiation'. And I hear the other colleague now climbing up and saying, a new man cleaned up the complexion? So, where do you call them? And if the intertwiner is younger...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u383	Are you addressing me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u384	...who took the money, took the money out of his pocket? Are we going to agree on something? If you want the opinion that communication is a public good, then you must admit that it is above negotiation and above the auction. If you consider it a public good, how on earth do you take it out to the auction? Since when are the public goods coming out in the auction? Since when do you fix the issue of HSY? I have just come here to see a correction, a legislative improvement that you say 'in the light of constitutional provisions' and under 'and after the decision of the courts'. Who works who? Who works who? Well, get the Golden Dawn up and say they're nationalists. The poet said "national is true", he did not say nationalist is true. But these are fine letters. Go out now and claim that you have made progressive choices and is the Greek people suffering paranoid, the retired person who has suffered a thousand other things, that you are not the perpetrators of a policy? But how so since the central option is this? Aren't you involved in every naval procedure? You can forge a picture of the good and amazing Europe that changes in a Europe that was united, as a hybrid, abolishes the borders and after abolishing the borders, at the same time you negotiate with eight countries how to open up the borders, which are open to capital, open to the movement of interests, open to everyone and everything relating to money and only closed for refugees. Mercy! With walls! How can I tell you? You who celebrated selling the Berlin Wall in souvenirs, accepting a wall in Calais, a wall in Bulgaria, a wall with Skopje, a wall here, a wall over there, a wall. Stop playing bad journalists, bad media and bad channels that tarnish your wonderful resistance picture, on the mountains, on the tops, on the mountain peaks of Pindos, on the intercom and fight fascism! It's disgraceful. Why do you do something that is heavy, even as journalistic, even as communication, even as politicians. By blaming everyone that they're lying, you have the truth! So the people, when they suffer, go out on the street or shout slogans against Katrugalos for his politics, against Tsakalotus for his politics, not for his face. Personal designations, at least by the JRC, have never been heard, but only when they are in line with the name "Katrugalos", "Trade", "Training Law". Will they be liars too? Minimal! Minimal! You deprive political dialogue at the level of unravelling. I am sorry to say this, but in the country of Katina, Paxinos, the word 'climbling' does not stand. He's not standing!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u385	Mr President, he speaks for seven minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u386	He wants to interrupt me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u387	Mr Colleague, so many others have spoken and so much more. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u388	Yeah, but there's no time left for others.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u389	He's in the President's judgement. Are you now making an observation to the President why does it not interrupt me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u390	That's what I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u391	Yes, sir. What am I supposed to say now? Should I speak like a symbol?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u392	Ladies and gentlemen, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u393	If I speak like a symmetry, I'll say that you're trying to censor me, I'm the poor communist you're all hitting. Because crying you have it, complain and cry. Note only why in the wrong communication of the central political choice in favour of capital, in favour of the troika's decisions, in favour of the Monetary Fund, in favour of the central choices made by NATO and the European Union, in the joke when someone starts to be beaten, there is a chance that they'll say to him, 'Why do you beat me?' and answer him, "You know." And that in politics means a number of things. So cut off the fairy tale that you are sacrificed for a Left that has taken the wheel all right and has staggered with its idol, making it roughly sixty degrees cycle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u394	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, requests for roll-call vote have been tabled from the Golden Dawn, from the Democratic Association and from the Communist Party of Greece. I repeat that we have reached an agreement since noon on a proposal from Mrs Christodoulopoulos - and the House accepted it - that we should finish the work at around 20.00 hours - 20.20 minutes and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u395	We talked about it at 2100 hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u396	The alert I've got here says about 20:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u397	Whenever you say, it's going to happen at 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u398	Good, Mrs. Canelley. Let us agree that votes will take place at the time of the vote. 20.15', 20.30' let's be 20.45'. We have agreed, however, that we will be closing down at that time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u399	Mr President, we talked about 20:00. Mr. Kaklamanis then said 20:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u400	We said 20:00. At first we said at 10 p.m., as far as I know. We said then at 20:00. We might get out of here for a quarter, twenty minutes. Deal. Mr Ioannis Vroutzis has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u401	Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone were to try to put a title in this bill that we are discussing today in this House, I think that it would be very easy to add the title 'Minister of Parliament' or 'Minister of Political Amoralism' or 'Level of Indulgence and political hypocrisy'. I say all this, Minister, because it is a good time that you are here, present in the process, because at the time that this debate is taking place in the House, the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Dobrovski, made a very tough statement against the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. He specifically said what we all know in Greece now and becomes an estate in the conscience of each Greek citizen. He said that the Greek taxpayer, the Greek household, pays the Greek company today the populism of SYRIZA. The increased taxes, the unfair and unnecessarily, the reduction of pensions - also unfair and unjust - are the result of your own policy, populism and demagogicism that you have just taken over the government. And it would be good today as we discuss this disputed bill to be placed, Mr Chakalote. The Vice-President of the European Commission made this statement. Anyone didn't do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u402	Fifteen times we've had this conversation. How many do you want to get out of here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u403	The second is specific remarks in the course of the debate. I can slowly observe that the unholy alliance between SYRIZA and ANEL is losing its balance. This twilight alliance in the name of the chair is being deceived somewhere. Be careful, gentlemen of SYRIZA. Look at the minutes of the speakers today. Excluded from ANELs the rapporteur and the parliamentary representative, who has not yet spoken, not even a member of the ANELs came out to support your bill. It's your problem. I'm just putting it in the Minutes, in the conversation we're having, to take your measures, see what's going on. The third, also important, is that after two years of SYRIZA's governance, since January 2015, we first saw the phenomenon of the false-standard, after the falsified retards. It is the case of the Occupants who are supposed to be involved and support the government. The guerrilla only lasted an hour. And Mr. Tsironi's excuses can only be termed cheap or funny. In practice, one can easily give them the name "The Antarctic of Freshwater", because such an insurgent has not been seen by the House. But let's get to the bottom of things. Ladies and gentlemen, have you realised by the government what you are voting on today? I said it 'parliamentary conflict' for the following simple reason. Because what you're doing today has no historical precedent. Witnesses are all MPs, with an earlier experience. It is really a shame for the Greek Parliament, it touches all the wings of the House, which was voted four months ago, to come today to the vote. It is not only the insurance or the financial consequences for young engineers, doctors, lawyers, farmers, what you are doing, the negative financial result it produces, but the process that has a special notion. It was a time when the Prime Minister in Maximus gave his hand - at the same time as his word of honour - along with Mr Katrugalos to the representatives of engineers, doctors, lawyers and young farmers that he will bring in a provision which for at least five years - we are opposed to this construction of Katrugalos - will be a little weaker to embrace young people. It has not been four months since May 2016, after L.4387/2016, and you are voting today. One could call it a "law - butt". The question is, why? You're actually falling out of the law, you're voting out what you voted for. But there's something worse, too. The fact that you're taking back the legislation you've done four months ago actually suggests that the law itself has problems and is in the air. And I don't know if you've figured out that when Mrs. "Draculescu" came out and said what he said about insurance, that reductions must be made, that he proposes that we go to a zero deficit clause as well as to the main pensions. And there was no answer from Mr Katrugalou. That was essentially what he implied. Even - what Mr Katrugalos asked for about national consensus and a challenge to the New Democracy for work, he concealed that the only agreement that exists on this issue was an agreement that we reached in September 2014 with the social partners under the ILO, which he hid. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Two, three more comments, Mr President, and I shall conclude. If today, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, why should this be explained, we assume that this bill was brought by the New Democracy, by the ninety-nine supremacy and by the integration into the fund of all the DPOs - PPC, OTE, EYDAP, ELVO and the rest - what would happen? Outside the Constitution - the ministers, Mr. Tsakalotos, Mr. Katrugalos, Mr. Tsipras, present and the indignant and Mr. Kammenos - would burn Athens, as the Greek people say. What are you doing today? You bring this bill, which is in the wrong direction. In hypothetically, however, I will say to you, Mr Tsakalotes, that this bill would never come into practice and in fact with the New Democracy for two reasons: there would be no Prime Minister - either Antonis Samaras as former Prime Minister or as President tomorrow, Mr Mitsotakis - who would bring in a bill with which he would vote out any provisions he gave his word. And secondly, never the New Democracy - ever! - it would not grant the country's national wealth for nine years. That's all Left does, you're the only ones! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u404	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi. My colleague Mr Athanasios Paphilis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u405	I would say that there is supposed to be a sharp, harsh confrontation - and indeed there is - between the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and the other opposition parties on the occasion of the draft legislation under discussion, which is what? I won't say any wisdom. They are commitments in the third memorandum, prerequisites for substituting EUR 2.5 billion. So we now have the well-known political game, reversal and rotation of roles - known and I will explain what I mean - with the sole aim - and this is the most important thing, and I am not talking about the Chamber on behalf of the JRC, I am talking about the people - to get the people trapped again in false dilemmas and not to see where it is in his interest. To be caught in the dilemma that you - except for the JRC - who is, that is, the best manager of his misfortune. Because that's the point. And the confrontation in here is not about how the world will return even in 2009, in these conquests it had, nor how the whole policy will be overthrown. The essence of confrontation here is - and this is what the Greek people must know - who will serve better the interests of monopolies and of capital, parts of them - there are conflicts here, Nikos Karathanasopoulos said very thoroughly - but these interests go above the levelling-up of the popular strata. So, from this cockfight, the phony fight - not to say heavier expressions in here - the people have nothing to take. Does he have anything to take from what the government and you others say? Nothing to receive. The fight is just about who is the best waiter of the interests of monopolies and capitalist development. And I imagine that there is no good-for-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. In other words, the people receive nothing from the government and from what Dedicate and other Opposition are calling. On the contrary, he must catch his pockets. Where does this fight end and this acidity end with the assistance of the media and many other players? It ends up in an attempt at general political deception of the people. What does the government say? This is amazing stuff. "We have fallen..." - says - "...negotiation". But are you serious? To your God, are you all right? The whole Greek society has been kneeled with the third memorandum and you say you have succeeded in negotiating and you have horizons etc. And every day you take measures that worsen the position of the populace? Unless - and that's what it is - you mean, of course you did. You have succeeded in negotiating for the benefit of monopolies, business groups and also scandalously. The New Democracy on the tiles. We're going crazy in here. The New Democracy, the PASOK, the Central Association and others, Potami, which privatizations have morning, lunch and evening prayer - 'all privates', 'all privates' - and have lifted a flag against privatisation. And they've done it when it was government and planned it for the next period. And because they smell election material some - I do not want to call them, because they are smaller parties - that's why they come out on the tiles. Really? Are you serious? That's what you've been saying, isn't it? That state, the other, which drinks the blood of the people, should all go to private individuals, to let civil servants get fired. And now that you see SYRIZA at this stage collapse - I mean in the conscience of the people - you found election bread. No, no, no, no, We're not in the lotus country. So now you're saying that confrontation is done with lies. And the government and opposition, the greater or less. To speak with truths and arguments. So, let's talk. First, is it true or lie that the third memorandum you have all voted on together? Did you vote for it or not? New Republic, SYRIZA, ANEL given. New Republic, PASOK, Potami, did you vote for it? And the Central Association, as the parliamentary representative said, said: 'We also gave a consensus on this.' Did you vote for it? And now what are you pretending to be? That you didn't know what you voted for? What do you call about privatizations? Did you know what you were voting for? I'll read below. What does SYRIZA answer from his side? It does not mean privatization, for example, the transfer of TECs and other public funds to the fund. It doesn't mean. Yes, sir! Let's see who's in this room lying and who's telling the truth. So we read on page one thousand thirty, third memorandum: "The primary role of the fund is to manage Greek assets of significant value and to protect, create and ultimately maximise their value, which will be liquidated by privatisations and other means". This is the fig sheet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u406	More inside. That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u407	Did you sign it? The government signed it. So should I go on, Mr. Chakatte? You like dialogue. Do you know what the title of this article, Article 4(4)? Who is it? You know? "Privatization," he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u408	What do you understand about 'and other means'?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u409	And now you're whistling.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u410	"And other means"...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u411	I'll talk to you later. And the fund, he says, is expected to achieve its goal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u412	What do you understand about 'and other means'?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u413	Look, when I make a political strip, at least hide behind the curtain. I'm reading text. So I'm saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u414	No, "and other means" is our shield.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u415	The fund is expected to achieve its goal by following international best practices. Are you going to drive us crazy? All over the capitalist world, everything is handed over to private individuals. That's what you agreed on. And I'm saying now: you guys who came out on the tiles - PASOK, etc. - You didn't know that? Didn't you know what you voted for? So what are you yelling at? Why are you yelling now? You didn't know? You knew that very well. Didn't you take it? Now if you're going to interpret us, we understand, we know, we have experience, but they have others. The last thing I told you again is the fig sheet. It says, privatizations and other practices. And they gave you this...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u416	Or by other means.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u417	And they gave you this - after you challenge me, I will say it - to make fun of the Greek people. That's why. So what have you been doing so far? Aren't you doing privatizations all the time? What did you do the other night? Didn't you give the Greek? Now don't you have everything in the schedule? I'll tell you what it is. So, if you want not to provoke me, because you're probably gonna lose. So I keep going. Mr Skourletis has indeed tried to argue, he is not supposed to say that he is losing the public from transferring the public property to this fund, and indeed - he says - it is not even a guarantee for lenders. We don't know what letters we've learned, but read to understand the Greek people. It says, therefore, that: "It will be used... etc., that the price of all this will be used to reduce the debt ratio - GDP. The rest will be used for investments.’ That's what he says. So he won't lose when he liquidates the State when he sells the public property! He doesn't hold it as bail! Because it is conditional on going to the Fund for the repayment of debt and 50% will be used for investment. Who is that for? Are you going to give them to who? The workers? To the farmers? Professionals? You'll give them to the monopolies! It's just their scales! Just because people don't know many things sometimes and you're trying to work with him, it's a European-Union language, which has been built for too many years, so that everyone has clear directions and can interpret it as they please. And since we are here, and you are also of the New Democracy and of PASOK, I say to you: Get out here at the Step, because you have "god on the tiles" and you can't stand this story, and say, "when the New Democracy comes into government, the first law that will bring will be to abolish this ninety-year fund, which will unravel all of this." And you and PASOK. But here you say it. Make an official statement. But can you say that? After you voted for it! Didn't you vote for the third memorandum? So, to end this story and confrontation, what is the government doing with this law? Apart from what is said here, it creates the best conditions for investing funds in all areas, plundering funds, and with quick profitability, because today capitalists do not invest in long-term investments that are late to bring great profits. In other words, it creates a paradise for the various investment projects. Secondly - because this is a package - it breaks what is left of labour, popular conquests, and the translation of SYRIZA is amazing. I don't know how many languages there are in the world. The best practices of OECD and of others are for workers? What is it, really? Who are you kidding? Best practices aren't smackling all the rights that exist? So that's it! And they present this with a philosophical model. And here the New Democracy, because it is unemployed, literally, has taken everything away, is trying to get out of the left now, which is the champion of all these measures. And I'd say some people are crazy because SYRIZA's doing it and they don't do it themselves. That's the point. Now, this whole policy will have consequences for the people's layers. I don't have much time. Let me say one more thing. Because Mr Skourletis defended the government's policy on energy. What have you done? Firstly, you are going to liberalise the energy market, a European Union policy. You're separating IPTO from PPC. Of course! And that is the European Union's policy. Do not tell me that it is intended to make European Union policy easier for consumers in the toughest neoliberal - as you say - its policy. What are you doing now? Tell us and answer the Greek people. Why would PPC accept to reduce energy production to 50% and as much energy as it produces to take it out in the auction? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me two more minutes. I won't have any second. Why are you reducing energy production? You accept to decrease to 50%. What's the point? To facilitate other monopolies, serve all others. And what he produces - that's the most scandalous - he's gonna take it out on the auction. And what are they coming for? Airplanes. What are they gonna sell? No investment, no investment, no risk. And they don't risk too many reasons. They will take the energy, sell it, and the Greek people will pay more and more expensive. And you know, some individual and arrangements made do not change the anti-popular direction as a whole. I heard before Mr. Ursuzides talking about the railroads. Well, you're working with us here and telling us that OSE has so much debts? You're giving it all away. Turn it off and give it to 45 million. Yes or no? And you have the Greek people and infrastructure to serve this Italian company, which will buy it. Finally, Mr Katrugalos - he is a protagonist, but others continue to do so - says a number of issues will be decided at European level too. And because they will be judged, now the pattern, the moto, as they say, 'Europe is changing' has been replaced. Now - he says - we have the alliance of the South. But who are you kidding, really? Who, to your God. What South alliance? With who? With Olad? What did Olad vote for, what did he bring? It has brought about a law that abolishes the fixed working time, which will not be determined on a daily and weekly basis, but in a wider period of time. Therefore, overtime, increments and a number of conquests are being abolished. That's why there's been a mess in France. So, for the rest of you together, this is a decision of the European Union. It is the European Union's policy since 2005-2006, if I remember well, that was abolished and it was a total mess. And you are now saying that with Mr Holland and the Social Democrats who dismantle what the workers have won, you will make an alliance. For what? The same thing as Renci, who is - I shall say - 'blessed' in the sense that he comes first and says to release redundancies - comes to the next negotiation - and zero collective agreements. Did you hear what your ally says? And you tell the Greek people and the workers and the Greeks and, more generally, they will change Europe when they talk about zero collective agreements? What does that mean to zero collective agreements, so people know? It means no right. We start from the beginning, everything you've conquered doesn't recognize it. Are you saying that you will change Europe? You're kidding and you don't do it for the chair. Because the New Democracy is using this'smith'. It is a view of managing the capitalist system itself. They say "we will manage it better and will be more philosophical." That's a legend. There's no philosophical management. Turns out, got shot, it's over. Folk counterattack: People don't buy the fairy tales you're all for, both of them. You're all responsible. It's this barbaric system you don't even want to change. You want to serve it. So on the path of struggle, overthrow, people's power and not on the path of fatalism and subjection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u418	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister Tsakalotos has the floor for twelve minutes, with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u419	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Canelley is right. When you say there's a lie, there's always the danger that the whole world thinks what you're saying is true. Of course, it also applies to the contrary, that too many lies have been said, many inaccuracies. I too want to refer to some of them, without obviously implying that we have the monopoly of truth and that what I am saying is the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u420	You can admit where you're lying, and where you're lying, to balance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u421	Don't interrupt me. I didn't interrupt you at all. I want to make a speech, I want to explain our position, without extremism, without any further intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u422	I didn't interrupt. I could ask for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u423	We're saying there's no dialogue that builds up each other. For example, Mr Venizelos says about the 6 billion said by Mr Houdis. You remember yesterday in Parliament, Mr Georgiadis raised this matter and I think he agreed - that the answer is in the May Eurogroup decision - that these 6 billion are for medium-term debt. He says Mr. Varvitsiotis that everything on the list in Annex V is going for privatisation. We are discussing again with Mr Georgiadis and explaining that the companies that go there can go for privatisation, but there is no obligation. Again and again today, "all businesses go to privatization". Your own Members and PASOK - and Kathimerini - say they are surprised. I surprised them yesterday because I told them what was in the memorandum. The Memorandum says that the value of the assets of the Greek State will be increased through privatisations or other means. Mr Varvitsiotis, when he read this text, did not have the kindness - which Mr Pafilis had - to mention the 'other means'. He said about the privatisations and he stopped. I'll say about the "other means" later. So I would like us to be able in these cases not to say the same thing again so that the debate can be more forward and that the Greek people can hear and see who it is and whom it is not. So to make it clear - I think - once and for all. That is why there is no comitology. There's no mortgage on all the property. The sole shareholder is the Greek State. The shares are not transferred. Stocks can't be seized. The large privatizations - we are not talking about an estate or plot - must go through the Ministry of Finance. The Minister for Finance must accept any major privatisation. I want to say now about Mr. Paphie and Mrs. Manolakou, about exactly what's going on here. You know, Thatcher - and Reagan, but I'll talk more about Thatcher - started privatising the water, PPC, telecommunications, without being in a fund. It is obvious to me that if a very neoliberal government like Thatcher comes - and Kyriakos Mitsotakis, life has, always, this embodies, neoliberalism in an extreme case - then there may be more privatizations. It could be done and not be in the cashier.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u424	Like the Greek for example!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u425	Mrs Manolakou quite rightly asks me, because - if that is the case - we put these businesses in the fund. And there is a first answer that it is the result of a compromise. But there is also a more serious answer, which I would like you to hear. What is the problem in our relationship with the JRC is that, in my view - without that being the absolute truth - the JRC assumes what is to be proved. And what's to prove? That we can create a large majority of the Greek people who believe in collective solutions. When I read the polls, I see that the Greek people - and not only, but also the European people - have not been convinced of this. So what do we say? The compromise is a compromise. Can we use this fund to make it restructured in these businesses and not just to restructure the businesses themselves - and the Left has so far not had a policy of how we restructure these businesses - but so that people can be convinced that the public can be good? And this not only for the company itself, but also for how it affects sectoral policy, how it affects the region in which the company is and makes links with other enterprises and other social actors. That's the big bet. The big bet is not to sit back and say that because of this, the only thing is privatization. It is to be able through this fund to have a restructuring strategy. And that is why you will see that when the rules of procedure come, there will be links between each company and the government's development policy, but also with each ministry's sectoral policy. That's what the previous bill does. And what we're doing now is specialising in business. Moreover, I should now like to turn to the issue of the 'other means' - which we had the disagreement - and to explain to you what the 'other means' are and to understand that it is not a fig sheet, but a real shield. Look, the first thing he says is that you're not forced to privatize. So, we agree it doesn't have to be like the TIAD, and it's not like the TIAD. Because you can increase both the value for investments and pay off the debt by other means. And here there was a conversation with Mr Hatzidakis yesterday in committee. I do not see him here again, but I should like to reply to him as to the New Democracy colleagues and to you. We have a building that's for the beach volleyball. Right now, it's in a terrible state and nobody would want to. With little money you can do in it an investment and make it a center, which can become part of the matches worldwide, held in seven - eight cities. This can create positions, not only for that day that will become the world championship in Athens, but for athletes of the beach volleyball from Sweden, Norway, the Netherlands, Ukraine, who are now going to the southern hemisphere, because, as you can see, it is not so pleasant to train in the winter in Russia at the beach volleyball. And do it in Greece and create jobs not only in the beach volleyball, but in hotels, in restaurants. This is not just about the beach volleyball. Why couldn't Greece be a sports centre where people will come that can't train and train in our own facilities, through the properties that will go to the real estate fund? This means 'other means'. You don't grant it, you don't give it, it's Greek, it's held in Greek property, and you use it and you organize your own property. It wouldn't be our choice, but it's a choice they forced us to, and it's a choice we could think about. I expect the people who are supposed to believe in entrepreneurship to give me too many other ideas about how we can take advantage of the Greek property for the sake of the Greek people and without it being sold or privatised, but that Greece can win with it. Finally, I want to say a few things about other lies that we have heard, and unfortunately from people who have not expected it from New Democracy, that we are still behind schedule, we are still not within the programme. I would like to tell you that you have been disobeyed in all of this. You told us that the programme was 'in the air'. I know that we set an end-September target, we were aiming for everyone to be done on 25 and today is 27 to be ready for the Euro Working Group. In other words, we have a delay - it depends on how you measure it - one and a half to two days. In the EWG, Euro Working Group will be discussed. Where is it that we are off schedule and have been delayed and that everything is 'in the air'? Why do you say that and keep saying it today when you see it in front of the bill when I told you that almost all the Milestones are over? Why do you continue to say that the economy is sinking when we have three consecutive quarters of positive growth? Why don't you see that while we had to be less than 700 in the revenues, we're at plus 300? And we had to be at the minus 700 precisely because we didn't have EVH in August, as we had estimated, and now we're very much over and so the "cutter" won't come in. Why do you keep saying 'cutter'? And why don't you think of why your own ministers couldn't increase the collection of VAT and make Mykonos the first, the second, Rhodes and the third, the Santorini? Which other government did this, at least all Greeks have to pay VAT? What exactly are you accusing us of this and the fund? The old PASOK when the Minister, who was supervised, or PPC or OTE made three hundred recruitments, and the two hundred fifty were from the minister's prefecture? Is that why you blame us? When Mrs. Vulture asks what arm's legth means, which she did, that means. That we are making a relationship with the CECE and a relationship with the public administration that cuts the old policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u426	So you don't have supervision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u427	I've answered you, Mrs. Vulture. Since you weren't here, after you're late, don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u428	Now I'm here to see you mention me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u429	So we are building a relationship with both the public sector and business, which is not the old rousfetti, it is not the old client state, but it is coordinated with the needs of the economy, the real priorities of this society and with social accountability. What you wanted - and you and you - to be able to supervise the Ministries and put your own people through now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u430	Thank you, Minister. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u431	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when one hears the Minister for Finance, Mr Chakaloto, with this youthful warming and the momentum one really feels the perception of the parallel universe. In other words, by listening to the Minister now, if someone who knew nothing from Greece ever and went into this Chamber today and the only thing he had heard was the Minister of Finance, I imagine he would have a tendency to tell us to apologize to him immediately afterwards, because we unfairly accuse a government that is doing everything on time, with absolute time, and that, by mistrust, the opposition does not agree with that self-evident. Minister, although in principle it is none of your business to start with, from the first article of this legislation on insurance? What is happening today has two unacceptable appearances. The first unacceptable appearance is deeply institutional and suggests the institutional enslavement of the Greek Parliament to extra-Greek factors, whatever they may be. To vote for a provision by the Greek Parliament and four months after the same government majority has taken up the different vote, which absolves the previous one, that, ladies and gentlemen, and without justification, is an absolute institutional diversion. Is that understood, Minister, or is it not understood? Either you didn't know what you were doing then or you don't know what you're doing now or you don't know what you're doing either then or now as government. That's the truth! On substance, the last card of figs falls - to use your earlier expression - in the insurance legislation, in Law No.4387/2016 and in the provisions of Law No.4389/2016, the last cards of protection of the weak, for which, at the time, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister, Mr. Katrugalos, was very pleased. I am tabling the Minutes of the debate on No.4387/2016. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Today you get it all back. What can I tell you? You do not understand, beyond the institutional problem, the enormous problem you have created in the Greek economy and with the tax burdens and with the insurance contributions. A engineer who makes 7,000 euros in 2017 will pay 80% of his income in taxes and insurance contributions. A lawyer who will make 40,000 euros, if we put an advance tax, will pay 82% of the EUR 40,000. Is there any chance on the planet that there will be economic growth on these parameters? And here I must tell you, in order to have clear accounts, that we in the New Democracy are neither antimony nor anything we defend against Europe. However, the fact that the troika is concluding these things creates huge and its own responsibilities, because it is clear that this account, ladies and gentlemen, does not come out, like you, does not come out. It simply prolongs the anguish of the Greek people and a deadlock. With such tax rates, with such insurance contributions, there is no chance in any country on the planet that economic growth will come. That's the truth, and everyone knows it. Ladies and gentlemen, here with these provisions and taxes - I say again - you are bringing about a violent change not only in the Greek economy, but also in the Greek society. Thousands of professionals, the trunk of the country's bourgeoisie, will be found off the market with your measures for 2017. These measures, which you have voted on, fiscal and insurance, are completely inapplicable and unacceptable. They will be a disaster not only for the economy, but for the Greek social fabric. You will wipe out the entire urban order of the country. If this is hidden behind intentions, it is the only one that could justify provisions such as the one you bring to Article 1 of the bill. Let's go a little further on energy issues. You know, here there is bilingualism, bilingualism and we are finally leading to something that is completely incomprehensible. We don't understand. What is the government's planning on energy? What does the government want in energy? 17% of PPC and 49% of IPTO has joined the Operational Programme for the Exploration of ICT. I imagine that's not in doubt. I give you the relevant document. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is also provided for in the third Memorandum, namely Law No.4336/15, on page 1029, which expressly refers to privatization, both by PPC and IPTO. I give it to you for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Can you tell us exactly what that means? You will tell me 'it was in 2015, we have changed our minds'. All right, I'll give you the number4389/16 that on page 76 repeats this. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Can you tell us, in any case, what you intend to do, to know? If I understand correctly, there are two points of view: one of the ministers and one of the government and the majority of the government, and nothing can be said about the government's direction. And the New Democracy is being indicted on top. Because when the government and the government majority do not know what they are doing, they have one single way out: to demonize the Civic Opposition and to blame them there. We don't understand why. I come a little bit on the issues of the UFO and the UFO. To be clear, ladies and gentlemen, here, I would say again: we are neither antimony nor against our European partners. But please consider and read all the conditions that have been signed by defeated countries in world history. You will not find one that would be subject to such an obligation, the transfer of all of its assets to a fund, in which the foreigner has a very decisive responsibility, and I will tell you what responsibility he has, because they have been told enough about the shareholder. And if you don’t want to look long, search the Versailles Treaty that was imposed on Germany and led to World War II. That's what you agreed to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u432	"The whole" you say where does it come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u433	Wait a minute. It was previously said here about the role of the shareholder, which is the Greek State. Well, let's get to know each other. In a normally public limited company, ladies and gentlemen, the shareholders' meeting - one shareholder in this case - is largely in charge. Why does he run? For it elects the board of directors and, through the board of directors it has elected, exercises the management of that company. What's going on here? If you read here, you do something different. In Article 91 of the relevant law, there is another body, the Supervisory Board, which is composed of five members, appointed by the General Assembly, but how? Three members are selected by the sole shareholder. Who's the only shareholder? The Greek public. But take note of what he says below - with the agreement of the European Commission - but in practice by the European Commission - and the other two members directly from the European Commission. Therefore, all five members of the Supervisory Board are the trust of the European Commission, not the shareholder of the Greek State. And you will tell me, 'Stop Council is, what's the matter'. Turn the law back, if you want, on page 114 and look at the responsibilities of the Supervisory Board. You will see that while the board of directors is appointed by the shareholder, here, Minister - and you know it, because you have negotiated it - the board is appointed by the Supervisory Board. The Board of Directors is therefore appointed by the European Commission. So the European Commission is doing the job. Yes or no? Apparently, yes. And can I tell you something else? Because it does not trust the Supervisory Board or even the Board of Directors that it will appoint, it has put an even more wicked provision in it. Paragraph 1b states that the Supervisory Board is the only one that can subscribe to a retransfer of assets to the Greek State. Did you hear that? In other words, it locks the assets transferred and only with the agreement of the European Commission can the assets come back to the Greek State. These, ladies and gentlemen, have been negotiated and you have voted for them. And if you have voted for them, and you know what you voted for, come here and support them. But don't tell us any more than others about the proud negotiation, about the sovereignty of the country, and so on. Have you agreed to the complete catastrophe of any element of sovereignty in these assets, yes or no? Yes, it's the only answer as much as the Minister is trying. I respect the effort, it makes me like it, but these are written, and I put them in the Minutes, because they are texts of laws, which you have voted on. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In addition to this, as far as the SAD is concerned, the other minister appointed, relaxed under this provision at this time, told us that it belonged to the Greek State and that there is no problem. First of all, the SAD is run by the Supreme Court, because this is above and so what I have said is also true of the SAD. However, for the order of the matter and for something to be read, I am telling you what you have voted for the SAD at Law.4389/2016, page 111: The company, the SAD, the Public Participation Company does not belong to the public or wider public sector. And you have voted for that. To be informed and not to tell us any more than others here. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Apart from that, Mr Chakalotos told us earlier that the Public Participation Company is not aimed at privatising public assets. He doesn't question it, he's present. I did not know whether he would be present, and that is why I brought in and submit to the Minutes what he said to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Law 4336/2015, page 1030. I read it to you, because here we have, you know, learned. The fact that you voted for them does not mean that you have made them your estate. Obviously, you thought you were voting for other things. I am referring to page 1030 and I would refer you there: "The primary objective of the Fund is to manage Greek assets of significant value" - well up to this point - "and to protect and ultimately create and maximize their value" - to this extent well, but listen to - "which is to be liquidated by privatisations and other means", what the Minister says. It's going to be liquid, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u434	'Other means'. So it's not for privatization.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u435	So the other means are not to be privatised, but to be liquidated, that is to say for sale. Understand? I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u436	So you're saying we don't make a single privatization.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u437	Wait a minute, Minister. Don't interrupt me all the time. There is nothing inconceivable about what I have said. You have only chosen two options. Or liquidation, i.e. direct...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u438	How else will the value increase?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u439	I beg your pardon, Mr President, but I have three or four vacations. I'll be interrupted by the president...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u440	Mr Minister, you know, colleagues are not listening to you and so they do not listen with interest to dialogue, because you are not listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u441	I have a question...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u442	I will answer the question, and you can answer it later. Ladies and gentlemen, you have chosen two options. That's the ones you have. Either liquidation or privatisation. That's what you chose. Do you like it? You don't like it? That's what you chose. We have nothing against privatisation, but do not pretend to us that you have not decided to privatise. You also decided on the liquidation. Because the Minister was a wicked man. It fortifies behind non-Greek or, in any case, its limited knowledge, as it predicts - because I am sure it understands very well - so that it does not repeat the word'research' that it is before. Please, look at his location yesterday and today in the minutes. The word'research' does not exist anywhere. She never called her. It starts the phrases from there. You're doing something even worse, if you'll excuse me. And I'm taking here the legislative improvement you've brought to change the law. Minister, I sincerely tell you - and I tell you this as a lawman - take this piece of legislation back and take that back here. That's a disgrace. Do you know what you're writing here? You're not a lawyer, but you're writing not just the self-evident one, but the self-evident one that makes a fool of the one signing it. And I'm sorry to tell you that you sign it. It shall read: ‘at the beginning of paragraph 3, the words ‘without prejudice to restrictions’ shall be added. What limitations do you think? The ones that come from the Constitution? You bring a provision of law and you reserve the Constitution as if there were a law in the Hellenic Republic which does not reserve the provisions of the Constitution and of judgments. What are you talking about, ladies and gentlemen? Who are you kidding? Why did you pass us? For us? Do you reserve the Constitution of the Hellenic Republic? Are you serious? So, could you, if you hadn't gone through this, not have the Constitution of the Hellenic Republic? That thing you call it legislative work? What are these things? Where is the limit of parliamentary instability? Who are you trying to make fun of at the village cafes with such provisions? Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Finance has made a very nice position. I've kept it from the Minutes of the House. I've taken the Minutes because I didn't know if they'd be here. He said: "What I would like to say to you..." he said, addressing this House, "...is that the Left in Europe has always been well, not when things got worse in the economic sector, but when the economic cycle was beginning to go up". When we had money, then the Left was doing well. When things got tough, the Left didn't know what to do. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That is how we all know, ladies and gentlemen. Let me tell you something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u443	It'll be the last, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u444	I shall conclude, Mr President. Let me tell you something, to be informed, because we are observing the messages of the time. Firstly, it is obvious that the exercise is not coming out in any way, because you are on a complete run. This case added you the worst of all. What's the worst of all? He fooled you. The tragic thing about a government is not to be called, but to laugh at it. And right now, the Greek society after the Kalogrisa case - you'll see it in your measurements - is laughing at the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u445	And what about the people you identified with the canals don't laugh?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u446	Now we're going back down. What are you doing? I'll tell you what you're doing. You start setting up the possible election tale if you don't get the supposed debt deal out of you. So you're starting a so-called fight against the interlocutory that doesn't exist...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u447	Isn't there a complication?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u448	There's no such thing as that. You're not doing anything against the interlocutory. I wish you would. You're not doing anything against the interlocutory. Secondly - to tell you the truth, at first I was not so naive to do this - you are starting the battle against the church. There, we started to smell you. So let's start and say: set the 'rats'. You're about to tell us, it looks like if it doesn't come out at all, and some kind of debt tale. Please, and I tell you again: you had the opportunity and you lost it in the worst way. Too bad for you. Too bad for the country. In any case, a little seriousness and a little dignity now to your sterling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u449	Thank you, Mr. Dendia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u450	Mr President, I would like to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u451	Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u452	Mr Dendas, without any voices I would like to say to you: Firstly, you have not explained where the entire Greek estate is going to the fund. That's nowhere. Because I appreciate you, as you, as you have often said, not saying anything that is not in the law nor in the previous one. There's nowhere to be found that the entire public property must go to that law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u453	Is there anything you didn't say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u454	Too much. As we explained, for example, for schools, hospitals and thousands of other things. We'll decide. And know that for the second evaluation... Now I'll take some more time...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u455	Yes, but you know, Minister, I have a duty to defend my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u456	I'm done, I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u457	One thought of man completing. The other has said so much!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u458	What are you complaining about, Mr. Manda? I, too, have a duty to defend colleagues who are neither parliamentary representatives nor ministers nor special speakers, who are patiently waiting to speak. You're welcome. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u459	I'm rarely talking more than my time. Secondly, you said a wicked word because you also said that word. You said that we did not say that it should be done either by liquidation or by privatisation. That's not right. What we are saying is that liquidity, value increase will be done either by privatization or by other means. How else do you understand, as a right-wing man who wants to increase value, that can be done. Two ways it has to increase the value of money: through liquidation. And this liquidation can be done either by privatizations or by other means. I told you various ways, more yesterday than today, which can be done by other means. Third, there's no other way. So let us agree on that. Don't say things that don't apply, so we can go on. It's not the whole thing. We don't have to privatize it all. We can do more in, and I think that's a big victory. If you have any ideas about how not to privatise more, tell us. One last thing: Are you saying about HSH and HSH now saying that as long as you are, they will never be privatised? You're saying PPC won't be privatised? Answer me. Mr. Skourletis challenged you, and I didn't hear an answer. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] What commitments do you have? Which of what's on the fund would you not want to be privatized? Tell us, anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u460	Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u461	Mr. Teddy, would you like to answer? The answer may be monolithic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u462	Minister, on the subject of PPC and the manipulations that have taken place, our rapporteur, Mr Varvitsiotis, replied to you this morning and to the damage you caused to the Greek public by not going to 17% and so on. Don't repeat it. I don't have time. As far as the whole of the property is concerned, I will answer you directly. S.H.I.E.L.D., S.E.L.D. and E.D., everything goes to the superstate. If this, in your view, is not the whole of the Greek property of the public, this is about you. If you feel quiet about them, good. I'm saying something else. It is the problem that is deeply institutional, ladies and gentlemen. What's that? You want it not to be 100% and be 80%, 78%? All this has been under foreign control and I have explained it to you in detail. This has been done on your own days and on your own Government. What privatisation, gentlemen? You have put the whole under the control of the European Commission. You put the country under comitology. You want to tell us the truth, see what we're doing from now on? Or do you want to continue the Left's pretexts with the so-called privatization? Because what you say, Minister, does not have the slightest value.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u463	Thank you, Mr. Dendia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u464	Mr President, may I ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u465	You're a special speaker, and because you're asking for the floor, I have to give it to you. For 20 minutes I have been trying to give Mr Dimas the floor and I haven't done it yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u466	I'll ask a question for half a minute. Mr President, because, as rapporteur, like all the other rapporteurs, we have not been placed on the amendments and legislative improvements, and because the one tabled by Mr Tsakalotos, relating to the EEAS and the EEAS, conceals a scandalous prediction, I would ask you, as the Bureau, to give me the floor, whenever you are judging, for at least two or three minutes, in order to place ourselves on the amendments which we have not been able to put.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u467	Deal, Mr. Maniot. Let three - four colleagues speak. They must also speak a little bit from the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u468	I don't have a problem. However, this thing cannot be voted on without discussing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u469	Thank you. After three colleagues you will take the floor. Mr. Christos Dimas from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u470	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister for Finance, I have listened with great interest to your position. I want to comment on two things, too. First, you said we had no delays. Let me remind you that we are debating today in Parliament under the urgency procedure. The prerequisites you've known for four months. And since the President of the House is present at the moment, I would like to tell you, Mr President, that the parliamentary procedure is a good one, when we invite the committees to come to express their opinion on the bills and invite them one or two hours before the committee meets. That is something we need to look at. So, Minister, if you hadn't been late, neither would you in the committee yesterday justify the urgency procedure on the grounds that, before the Euro Working Group, the bill had to have been passed. Secondly, Mr Minister, which you mentioned: the New Democracy really wishes the country to achieve the objectives set in the budget, but I have not heard you mention the public's overdue debts to private individuals at all. They touch 7 billion and their increase since you took over power is about 80%. Mr. Juliarakis has committed that by the end of 2016 and the 7 billion will have been repaid. I'd like your own placement. I was present in the Committee on Budgetary Control, Mr Juliarakis said so. I am one of those who over time argue that the state can't make the businessman. I believe in the least state and a public one, which must be more effective and more respected. I thought the Left was consistent in its ideology and in its principles, that it was against privatization. I remember very little on the left to move earth and heaven, so that no privatizations can take place in any area. Yesterday, however, I heard the Minister for Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, point out with passion that the superstition will help to restructure the ECHO and make better use of public property. I'm pretty sure, Mr. Tsakalotos, that in 2011 in the indignant movement in Syntagma Square you did not stress to the thousands assembled that the country needed a superstition, to which it would enter without a plan almost all of the CECs, supposed to be ninety years and with a foreign administration. Today we are living in this paradox: SYRIZA and ANEL Members are voting for the most ambitious programme, possibly privatizations, which has been announced in Europe. I saw Mr. Spirtzi before. Perhaps it would be more honorable to download from their ministerial offices paintings with Mars Velouchiotis and put a picture of Margaret Thatcher or Jeffrey Sacks. You are already in place at the OSCE, OSCE, STASY, OSCE, OASA, ELTA and today you are voting on the entry and EYDAP, EYDAT, CERTA INFRASTRUS, ELVO, Attica MERO and PPC. The fact is that with your vote on the establishment of the superstate you are tearing down all the left ideology, your beliefs, and you are abolishing the struggles you have given in the past. Therefore, you are not even justified in the future to resist possible privatisations, which will be implemented by future governments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u471	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u472	Otherwise someone who is likely to be incapacitated will blame you, ladies and gentlemen, for complaining that you are voting to keep your chair. That's all about privatization. Instead of seeing how we support entrepreneurship in small villages, so that new jobs can be created and income attracts, the state puts additional obstacles. I am referring to the regulation of insurance which affects the owners of tourist accommodation in villages with less than two thousand inhabitants. More specifically, they will be required to pay for main insurance and health contributions of 26.95% on their net taxable income. You realise that it is a policy that affects the region significantly and creates sustainability issues in small villages. The confusion with which you are legislating is obvious. It is terrible, however, how comfortfully you have devoid of provisions that you yourself have just adopted a few months ago. How can one explain that you are abolishing the provision that allowed reduced contributions for the first five years of insurance for freelance professionals? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. I wonder whether there is even one policy area in which the government can well claim to have improved the situation in relation to what it has received, because the country's situation is as follows: the tax capacity of its citizens has been exhausted. First year the companies that open up are more than the companies that open up, ELSTAT reviews the forecasts for the recession to the worst, key components of GDP, such as consumption, exports and investments decreased in the first half of 2016, state debts have increased by 70% since you took over and according to GSE research, four out of ten companies face a problem of early payroll. Just yesterday, and SETE bounced the alarm, that we will have significantly less than expected revenues in tourism. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] To close, unfortunately, with populism and lies you have entangled the country in an unprecedented stagnation. The Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Dombrovskis, reminded you too. You have neither plan for the economy nor the ability to manage the situation. It is our duty to resist, to give a credible and responsible alternative to Greek citizens. We're already doing it as an Opposition. Soon we will do it as a government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u473	Mrs. Asmakopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u474	Thank you, Mr President. With this bill, which is the tail of the first evaluation, I now think we have exceeded every limit. Of course, you had already exceeded the limit of lies, you had exceeded the limit of the grief, you had exceeded the limit of populism. Today we are going beyond a new limit. We have a new record. We've exceeded the limit of shame. There is no shame in what we are doing anymore, because what you promised, what you said, what you said, what you voted in the past, today you are coming here and what you are doing? You're overcoming yourself again. After you have voted for all of this, you are voting out today. Today you are voting for the minimally favourable provisions, which had remained in the insurance "loving", which Mr Katrugalos calls "insurance reform" and you are even more condemning young professionals, people living in villages of less than two thousand inhabitants, the small hoteliers. You're condemning them again. And, of course, Mr. Katrugalos does that. Who? Mr. Katrugalos who came here today and said something about these things, Mr. Katrugalos, who was telling us about red lines, was the one who told us that pensions would not be cut and today the last thing left standing in this bill, the insurance. The only thing left standing is the handkerchief on the minister's tower. Nothing else. Why? Because you've exceeded every boundary of shame. You want to remain in power. Okay, we figured that out. So the only thing you're doing is constantly focusing on what is the next lie that can catch in the world to justify the previous lie we've told. And the epitome of this path of populism and lies is, of course, the superstition, the story of the superstition. This is an amazing route. Started with the first lie: "We're tearing up our clothes. We're on the streets. Nothing will be privatized on our shift." What did Mr. Tsipras say in an election? "If I'm going to do this, I won't. If I are to do so, you should vote on Mr Samaras.' Lie first. All right, people voted for you, believe you. We went through the phase of the proud negotiation. In the phase of the proud negotiation seventeen hours, the Prime Minister fought and came and lied to us number two: "Okay, the bad Shoeble wanted a superstition, but I saved us." The world has voted for you again. They go to the third memorial law. The Overseas is coming. Ninety-nine years all foreigners. "Hey, it's not all," lie third. "It's not all. These ECHOs will not come in." We're coming today. All insiders. Now? Now what do we tell the world? Here's a variety, ladies and gentlemen. He has the classic: "We are fighting and this is the battle we lost, but, well, we didn't lose the war and go further." That's the classic. He has: "Hey, it's not so bad the privatisations after all if you do them right." Well, that's what some people are fuzzing that up. And he has the amazing thing Mr Chakalotos told us: "Yes, they will go into the fund, but you know, they will not be privatized. Something else will be done or "Who gets them into the mess that they are?" All right, we've heard it all now. Of course, you are all saying the same thing: 'Yes to everything.' Yeah, in everything, because you want to keep your chairs. That's what we all agree on. Because you've gone beyond the limit of shame. You vote and then you vote. You're going to tell me: Since you can dig out? I honestly imagine that there are several Greeks who voted for you in the elections who would like to have this luxury and the one you have today to vote against, but unfortunately they do not. Are these the Greeks to which you said what? You said you'd defend them. That's what you told them. And today you find it hard to find lies to defend all of this, which you have brought to them and do not, because you are doing exactly the opposite. He's Mr. Skourlet here today. Mr. Tsakalots yesterday showed a preference to defend women. I have to say to this that perhaps - and if you would like, Mr Skourletis - it is a glorious field to defend, for example, your colleague, Minister Tsironi or your fellow Member, Mr Diaras, who said this morning that they will not vote and now say that they will vote. Because, of course, they're not women you prefer to defend, they're men. But they are also "kids" and "kids" need defence. Either you can also defend your Members who are currently very few in the Chamber, who, like cats, will vote or will vote or do whatever is required. Because all you're really interested in defending is your chairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u475	Thank you too, Mrs. Asmakopoulou. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u476	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr Tsakalots has left, but I will start with the amendment because I believe that it should indeed be withdrawn for two very important reasons. Firstly, an amendment without prejudice to the Constitution for any law and judicial decisions as you can see is funny. The funny thing, however, goes on in the explanatory statement, ladies and gentlemen. In the explanatory statement, we say that a paragraph is added that the purpose of the company of public ladies and gentlemen is the collective exploitation of public assets. The 'collective'. I think the Minister here wanted to say 'total'. Collective is, when we're all going together to make use of something. And from what I understand, that's not what I mean. On the other hand, we should make it clear once and for all as the Minister said. What do we have here? The prospect of this company is to liquidate the assets or by privatizations or by other means. Well, it's gonna be resilient, though. Ladies and gentlemen, we remember protesting with the current Prime Minister and collecting signatures throughout the country under the slogan'save the water'. I signed it, too. "Save the water"! In water no previous government dared to do any privatization or to join any fund. Today, you come with your vote to join the U.S.S.S.S.A. for ninety years and continue to deceive the world by saying that as long as Mr Tsakalotos is present, there will be no privatisation. In this fund we are going to have the glimpse of Greek society in the coming years. And this delinquency is your work. It is the saddest task of this governance and you know it. Can I tell you how it turns out? You know that, ladies and gentlemen, and I agree with you, when only thirteen in today's debate on urgency has been written to seventeen in seventy to defend this option. Only thirteen! From ANEL zero, other than the parliamentary representative. We come to the bill to tell you this: Article 1 of this draft law amends or removes provisions that you have just voted on a few months ago. A colleague here would have said she would be framed, but the level of the discount is adjusted in the event of the redemption of years of insurance with a one-off payment of 2% for each redemption year instead of 15% for the total amount that we have voted on. No longer will anyone who is insured, for example, for EUR 20,000, be able to make a discount of EUR 3 000, and it goes to EUR 400, for example. Who's going to pay alone? Who will pay one-off and what will be public revenue. Remove the provision by which the owners of small tourist accommodation under conditions pay for main insurance the reduced contributions of OGA insured persons until 2021. Who are they? Natural persons, registered in the register of farmers and farms. People mainly of the barren mountains and islands who as a supplement or as a main income had these small accommodations. You come to these weak, the small-fashioned farmers who are struggling to keep up, economically decent in difficult times in Greece to abolish the little one you have given. Do you remember, too, ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister accepting young scientists, new political engineers, new lawyers, new doctors to beat them on his shoulder and commit that for the first five years they would be treated favourably? What are you doing with this provision of Article 1? With a single-twinded government, even this occasional convenience you gave young scientists, not only do you withdraw it, but show them how much lies you can tell in such a short time and have absolutely no problem... [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] Thirty seconds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u477	You're welcome. They have asked for all five leaders to speak and it is impossible to be flexible in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u478	I'm asking you for thirty seconds. Two minutes of tolerance, if you want. I'm really asking you for thirty seconds. Where do you put the burden of this policy? I'm done with this. Where do you put the weight? You are putting the burden of this policy on farmers and young scientists. To those who are in a better position today than other citizens. Finally what you come to do - matters because it has been said before - is to prove to the Greek people that you are willing to vote everything. You are willing to complete the plan for which you have come to power. Give everything and finally, because you see in the context of SYRIZA's daily political collapse that there is no other perspective, you are earning some time. What you do is accumulate more ruins for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u479	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u480	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u481	Mr. Maniotis, just two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u482	Mr President, I have asked for the floor as rapporteur to comment on the legislative improvement submitted by Mr Tsakalotos in relation to the EEAS and the EEAS. I read the text. ‘It is specified that the exploitation of the companies listed in Annex IV does not in any event include the alienation of the Greek State as the sole shareholder of the company by a majority of EIOPA's capital and the identity of the legal word of EIOPA according to the case-law of the Council of State’. Mr President, this is a text of the report. Where there is a rapporteur's report, there is a corresponding provision on the body of legislation. In this introductory report, do you know what legislation exists in this section? That the state will respect the Constitution and the decisions of the Council of State. Laughing down the legislative procedure. But there is a top issue, Mr President. This provision applies only to HSY and HSY, i.e. the non-exigration of the Greek public. Incidentally, by contrast, do you know what this wording says? As for PPC, ELVO, "ATIO MERO S.A.", "CITIZENS S.A." will be alienated. Indirectly, the Government confesss by excluding only NSAs and NCAs, only in the explanatory statement. All lawyers know very well how little legal power the explanatory statement has when there is no corresponding provision in the main body of legislation. But even so, it's only for these two companies. So PPC, Mr. Minister of Energy, you supervise it, "ATITIC METRO S.A." and the other companies in Annex V will be alienated from the Greek State. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Does it matter? It is very important because regardless of what the Greek Parliament is voting on, it is obvious that everything must be compatible with the June 2015 Council decision. What did Mr. Tsipras sign? Page 4 of the Greek text. I read one and a half lines: 'The fund will be transferred to an independent fund, which will liquidate them'. How? "So either by privatisations or by other means." And it continues on the same page - all my fellow Members have forgotten this wording - 'in agreement with the institutions and in the light of best international practices' - is what we are doing now - 'legislative framework to ensure transparent procedures and appropriate pricing for the disposal of assets'. Mr. Tsipras has committed himself to the liquidation of the assets and on the same page he has signed for the sale of the public property. Mr President, after these, it is clear that it is incomprehensible that such an amendment should be voted on by the national Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u483	Thank you. We continue with MPs...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u484	Mr President, before the Minister speaks, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u485	You're welcome, Mr. Loverdo. What would you like?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u486	Excuse me. No arguments. On the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, I should like to make a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u487	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u488	Mr President, please ask the services of this House if this text can appear as a legislative improvement, because it is a new regulation - but this has happened on other occasions - which is also accompanied by a covert report. You must ask the services, Mr President, if you have the right as President to accept a change in the report. You don't have one. But you have the opportunity, since the government wants it, to accept an amendment to the incomplete part of the report that goes separately. As this is, it is an attempt to violate Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Please, too! We're not going to break it all up here! If I became understandable, immediately take the initiative to inform the services to get an answer, because you have to remember very well - you have made Minister - that it is explicitly forbidden to add and remove things from the draft law report and especially at the last minute. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u489	All right, Mr. Comrade. I agree. Please, we continue with MPs. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u490	It is not just an amendment. Bring an amendment to say what you want. Get an amendment to add to the rapporteur's report. With legislative improvement there is no addition or removal. Forget that. But that's not the point, Mr. Loverdo, excuse me. This is the ridiculousness of the thing. What does that say? The constitution will now only apply to the provisions relating to it. In other words, it says that Article 2(3) is without prejudice to the Constitution. The Constitution shall not apply to all other articles. That's the ridiculousness of the thing. Funny guys. Why? In order to fool two people and they to fool themselves from the bottom, who have put right labels, possibly, for what is being done with the superstition and the water companies. Look, a lot has been said in here and I choose some to be placed. Firstly, Mr Tsakalotos must know that the years that he lived abroad - and in particular, after the civil and subsequent years of the post-elections, the difficult ones, and of course the dictatorship and, of course, many of them, customer relations and rosphetologicals, were in place, in any case, until the establishment of the AACC. The PSC was, therefore, institutionalised in 1993 and strictly for the public at first and then for the agencies, brought democracy and transparency. That's what broke once. It broke collectively, of course, with Mr Pavlopoulou's rosphetological provision. Only by Mr. Pavlopoulou broke the AAP with a collective rousphetti. And here I would like to remind friends that the President of the Republic was elected by their votes and not by Mr Mitsotakis' vote, who accused him of being an old-fashioned party, who for that very reason did not vote for Mr Pavlopoulou. The rest is fairy tales. They are voting on these three colleagues who argued the previous period that after they removed from the excess of the EAFRD, EAFRD, PPC, the issue of "ATTMERO S.A.", we are voting. We have no problem with the rest, ELVO, "CITIAN INFRASTRUCTURES S.A.", "ATTIC MEASURES S.A.". They had it on their hands, now they're voting on three. And you know, Mr President, why do they vote on three rather than four, as Mr Kammenos said? Because the truth has a short leg, as Mr. Katrugalos said, so they vote on three. But Mr. Katrugalos came here and made us laugh. He made the entire Chamber laugh, because he said the following word: The third memorandum came to correct the two previous ones. And what did SYRIZA Minister mean? It was not enough tax and SYRIZA imposed new taxes. It increased excessively for those who existed and put taxes on all consumer goods, increased VAT, special taxes, even on coffee and wine. It was not enough, he says, for the cuts made by the previous, first, second memorandum and came with the third to cut pensions and social costs to complete the two incomplete memoranda, to make up the commitment of the thirteenth pension and to destroy, to destroy the small pensioners who received the EASA. This is the Katrugalo and Tsipras project. But they did not deceive only with election commitments and promises and announcements. They also deceived the recent commitments at their post-mobilisation meetings. They deceived farmers, who will now pay increased health contributions, young scientists who would have a transitional period during Mr Tsipras, workers who will now pay more precisely for the redemption of retirement years. But that's not enough. The second evaluation comes at the level. Mr. Katrugalos gave us a taste of the decision he made and abolishes the possibility for hotel staff to take the single one in twenty years and reduced it to 20%. And here I want to report the scenes of violence that we saw today outside the Ministry of Labour. But Mr Katrugalos has not been confined to his responsibilities, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u491	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u492	I'm closing, Mr. President. It works ex-institutionally. Watch out. It forced the administration of TAPILT - ATT to invest 55 million in the recent recapitalisation of Attica Bank, which has almost zeroed now. He did this by threatening to bleed all the money out of the fund. Before becoming Minister, when he was a adviser to TAPILT - AT, he had received an opinion that this money cannot be troubled by any Minister. Mr President, the PASOK and the Democratic Partnership have indeed persistently spoken about national understanding and pursuit. Greece needs a national line to come to an end with the memorials, recession, unemployment and overtaxation, so that we can finish with the unscrupulous burdens that the people are lifting up. Unfortunately, despite the insistence to date, we have been talking to ears of unhearing. But the citizens were not the same as the government, they listen and every day we have a change in political correlations, and sooner or later these connections will also be reflected in election results. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u493	You're welcome. The MPs will talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u494	Mr President, I would like the floor on the legal improvement?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u495	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u496	Thank you, Mr President. I think the basics have been described. I read that at the beginning of paragraph 3 of Article 2, the sentence is added: ‘... without prejudice to the limitations resulting from the Constitution and compulsory compliance with judgments’. This means, in just Greek, that the day has light and the night is dark. This is a full ridicule of the legislative function. I would like to hear whether Mr Tsironi and his Economists - who, otherwise, swallowed the lignite and showed to be drowned in a glass of water - really satisfys them this statement - with the clarification we all know here - that the explanatory statement of ideas supplementing this amendment has no value, but no value since this is essentially an ID card. I'm really waiting to hear the Epologs' locations. Once again, this is unprecedented. We do not legislate self-evidence or IDs. There's nothing that matters and value here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u497	Thank you, Mr. Barriotta. The President of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Fotini Genomes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u498	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is going without a national plan without a national line. The government runs behind the facts and improvises. Her ideoleptic obsession led her to a ruthless tax raid that puts the economy on hold, prolongs the recession and is painful for everyone. Today it is very difficult for each Greek family to live in despair, anxiety and insecurity. The living standards of the Greeks retreat every day. And, of course, the Greek economy loses its dynamism by day. Six years of sacrifice have been lost and time seems to start from scratch in a society which, ladies and gentlemen, has no other tolerance and other tolerances. And the only ones who seem to don't understand exactly what's happening are the Prime Minister and his Government. They're the ones there, their violin! We are presented with a virtual reality, a situation that has nothing to do with the everyday life and the problems faced by Greek citizens. But unfortunately, the deadlocks are here, harder and darker than the previous period. So the government, in front of these deadlocks, what does it choose to do? A sterile polarization, splitting. He poisons the Greek society. It weakens popular antibodies to cope with the crisis. He perishes in regiment practices and logic, distractions that eventually do harm in the country. The bubble, however, for the famous "first-time legality in the television scenery" was blown into their hands. The skeletons attempted to hide bread in remote pastures and bank lockers are in plain sight. You think Mr. Kalogerica's withdrawal will close the matter and you will go further. It's not like that. You think you'll erase the burglar's print in the case of television licenses. And here you are wrong, because the people understand very well what happened and they don't forget. It's obvious the triangle of interlocutory. The relationship between the government, the Kalogerica and the Bank of Attica. SYRIZA Bank financed the contractor to do "SYRIZA CHANNEL", with natural authors and orchestras, Mr. Spirtzi and Mr. Pappas. But not to be fooled. The Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, has the moral and political responsibility. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, politically, morally and legally, the contest has collapsed and now it is the prosecutor's time. We've been wondering for many days, though, about this: is there a prosecutor in this place? As far as the draft law on the prerequisites of the midterm review is concerned, all I have to say is that we are in the same spectators' work. Once again, the government has lost valuable time both for society and for the economy and is now coming in vain, panicky, to the nearest five literally, backwards, to cancel itself. And what is revealed today? Another deception of Greek citizens is revealed. What were they saying in May? In May, the government, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Labour pledged that young scientists, doctors, engineers, economists, but also farmers, will pay significantly less health contributions for five years, so that they can rely on their first professional steps. They deceived them. Today, SYRIZA - ANEL Members, with their vote, obliges young scientists to pay 6.9% of their income, from 1-1-2017 and farmers a lot longer. In May, the government pledged that small tourist accommodation owners in the villages with few inhabitants will be insured in the OGA rather than the OAU. He cheated on them, too. Today, MPs SYRIZA - ANEL will vote two thousand small-cost and a thousand five hundred hostel owners in the Greek region to pay from 1-1-2017 for a pension - treatment of about 27% of their net taxable income. In May - because we do not stop here - the government pledged that all those who buy the fictitious years for retirement will have a 15% discount. No, no, no, no, They were also deceived, because today the SYRIZA and ANEL MPs will vote for the discount to become 2% for each year. At the same time, unfortunately, and as we had anticipated, the Katrugalou Act leads insurance to a new dead end. The increased deficits lead to new thoughts to put a hand again - as they were saying a while ago - on the AKE, in other words, that is, on the safety of the next generations. And the worst - because the problems do not stop here - is that the failure of the Katrugalou law opens the way to the International Monetary Fund to formulate extreme and unacceptable claims for pensions and for work, which must be categorically and directly rejected. But deception, ladies and gentlemen, does not stop in insurance. In May, the Government also declared that it would not deliver to the supreme, that is to say, the control of lenders, PPC, public water undertakings and the ‘ATTRO S.A.’. Apparently, she was lying. For today, SYRIZA and ANEL MPs will vote for EYDAF, ELVO and "ATITIC METRO S.A." to be handed over to the creditors and the troika supermarket for at least nine nine years, with the right to sell, suffocating the administrations, invoices to their customers and investments and, of course, with the possibility of negative interventions on staff issues. Our position is clear. We are opposed to privatisation at the core of public goods. And a characteristic example is that of water. It's a clear position. As far as PPC is concerned, despite the crocodile tears of Mr. Skourletis, you deliver 34% of the shares. But even 17% more - take note of this - it will soon be sold through the GOI. What does that mean? It means loss of public control in the company. It's clear! I would like to express here our great concern at the progress of PPC and highlight the risks to which it is led under the responsibility of the government. The choices made by the government shrink PPC's customers' production and base by 50% without any consideration for the company, according to the Csipra Memorandum signed last year. PPC's intervention in the electricity market is thus decreasing, but all the burdens remain on the company and, of course, its inability to invest. I also point out that within a year and a half of governance SYRIZA - ANEL, the people's debts have increased to it, reaching 3 billion. The Public Power Corporation is being dismantled. The political responsibility for this also has a name: Alexis Tsipras. He won't hide behind his minister. The Prime Minister, the Government and its Members, willing, submissive and obedient to the hardest demands of lenders, with their vote tonight, complete the tradition of national wealth to foreign interests, One more thing about thousands of Greek families: Prime Minister, I hope you can hear from somewhere. Did you avoid, or not, the right of Greek borrowers to buy their loans before they were sold? Because Mr. Younger says yes! We're waiting for clear answers. I think it is incomprehensible that Greek citizens, those who really need it - nobody speaks of the tzambats - have such a right by decision, approval or complicity of the Greek Government. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Protection of the economically weaker is a major political and moral issue. It is the right of the Greek citizens, who have been protected in previous years on the initiative of certain decisions taken by our party. And let's try to indulge the Katseli law. It was a PASOK law and protected the weaker ones. That is why the right of the Democratic Reconciliation will continue to fight both internally and at European level. Ladies and gentlemen, the impasse created by the government - and with this I shall close - is also reflected in the administration of the refugee question. Our country is also hostage, together with thousands of refugees, of a fragile agreement between the European Union and Turkey. At the recent Vienna Summit, the Prime Minister found no word for our islands, nor, of course, for the human rights of refugees. The agreement, and the European Union-Turkey, is being implemented so that the flows towards the other European countries are limited. And this is exactly the way in which the agreement is implemented and the policy of the government is exercised, it creates in Greece "Oraiokastra" and "shoots water in the mill" of the extreme right on the islands. By the way, I want to report on what happened at the South meeting. We are not dealing with miserable diplomatic initiatives by the Greek Government. Not at all. But the result is what matters. And the result is seen in the decisions. And, unfortunately, we did not see a decision - nor a trace! - which serves either the South or our country or Bratislava or Vienna. The Prime Minister is here everywhere and always! This is the tragic truth about our country! Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we are voting against this unacceptable bill, which simply reveals once again the great deception of the Greek people. The country is dragging. With this government and with this course there is no hope and there is no prospect. The crisis will be recycled, Greece will be increasingly on the sidelines of Europe, and the government will only deal with its efforts to create a regime to prolong its stay in power. In vain, though. Its political and social isolation, but also the popular outcry, will lead very quickly to political developments. And it's not a solution to the right turn, the shift to the maintenance. Nobody in the country wants us to go back. What it takes is a national line. And unparalleled is national understanding. We remain firm in this decision and we will claim it. But in order to be able to impose it, it is necessary to change political ties with the decisive strengthening of the Democratic Partnership, the democratic party. We can and will become a strong, progressive current that will have a decisive role to play in developments and will finally be able to form a development alliance and a new state-of-market relationship based on confidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u499	The speech is given by the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u500	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today with the usual, now, fast track procedures, which first introduced, to such an extent, of course, it also has the congratulations of its partners - the SYRIZA - ANEL co-government. It is the bill, which comes to complete another part of the prerequisites for anti-grassroots measures in the first evaluation of the third and drug memorial. At the heart of its provisions are interventions relating to the pre-financing of the new supranational privatizations with the second group of six other companies currently under state control, also interventions relating to the further liberalisation of the energy market, the incorporation into State law of the European Union Directives, and the increase in insurance contributions paid to the health sector by farmers and categories of self-employed young scientists. At the same time, the closure of the first assessment also requires other interventions that have not been incorporated into this draft law, which are expected to proceed, obviously, through other procedures, either through the adoption of ministerial decisions or other arrangements. These include the establishment of the administration of the supranational privatizations, the interventions to reduce the electricity tariffs of the so-called cost-effective industries, issues relating to the financial system, the privatisation of the "ENGINATIC AD S.A.", the transfer of the last state package 5% to OTE and others. And in all of this, we do not forget, of course, the freshest anti-grassy rags, which have already been voted on in this House, but will be applied from the next period, such as the 65% increase in the Single Petroleum Consumption Tax, increases in heating oil, while since 1 January 2017 the rags - or new - are being introduced - in fixed telephony, in fuel, in coffee, in cigarettes and in electronic cigarettes. Also, at the end of the year the 30% VAT deducted so far to some of our islands is abolished. And what, of course, about other sectors? What about the bad health situation with responsibility for both the previous governments and the current government? All problems with shortages of staff, infrastructure problems and underfunding are exacerbated. These days I've been at the Hospital of Lamia. If there were no real heroic work, the self-sufficient work of the hospital's spiritual potential, the doctors, the nurses, the other staff, I don't know what would happen, how many victims we would be mourning. These issues must be prioritised and put aside the big words about various others that are disoriented from the central problems of our people. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a critical period. Our developments put us all in the face of great responsibilities. SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence continues the anti-population attack from where the previous ones left it and adds new unreasonable measures. It abolishes rights conquered by blood rivers. New reversals in labour rights, new reductions in wages and pensions, social benefits, collective redundancies, privatisation, auctions and a list of sacrifices for the recovery of capital profits have no end. Intensification of repression and a new law, which is a requirement of the European Union and capital, to ban strikes and curtail trade union activity, has proved to have been chosen for this dirty job. In recent times, the government's effort to show itself that it is breaking eggs does not go unnoticed, that it does not hesitate to clash to ensure the public interest. The government is deceiving the proposal for IPTO as a resistance to the privatisation policy, as well as to the model of State participations, joint ventures with private investors. In fact, SYRIZA's proposal promotes - in a different way - the anti-grassian direction of liberalisation, ensuring a level playing field for all energy groups compared to PPC's advantageous position in the past. As for the so-called radical nature of the proposal for state partnerships with private individuals, it is sufficient to remember what Mr Tsipras said about PPPs when he was in opposition. In any case, in the context of the liberalised market in capitalism, no company serves the people's interest. Whatever the percentage of the state in the equity composition, it will only operate on the basis of capitalist profits at the expense of the workers, the majority of popular families. And these, Ministers, that you've come up with this step is not assumptions to prove, it's the raw reality that comes and is bound to experience and political analysis of the data. Another example of disorientation is the well-known competition for the licensing of television channels that the government finds conflicting with strong economic interests, in order, he says, to put order in the broadcasting landscape. In reality, however, what it does is to redistribute business pie, aiming at a more friendly environment for it, since neither the complexity is hit, nor is the order in which our people are being informed by the media, nor is the character of the media changing, while the workers in it are becoming increasingly insecurity. Similarly, the government declares all tons ready to control the International Monetary Fund in the labour negotiations, so that its extremist neoliberal views do not pass, when the deck is really marked for the people and the new rounds have been agreed with the third memorandum. However, even confrontation with the Church on a subject such as the teaching of religiouss in school, which in most states has been arranged for years in the context of urban modernisation, the government has presented it as a confrontation with the double progress - maintenance, which is obviously attempting to manipulate against the frustration that is felt by its policy a more radical part of its audience, its voters. All the above is the zippers of the class anti-grass policy and that government, each measure of which gives the formol of the system that is rotten to the medulla. This is the reality that workers should see behind the gold dust that the government is spreading for its policy, as very successfully wrote Sunday's "RIZOPASTI". From this point of view were the statements by the Prime Minister from New York, in which Mr. Tsipras confirmed the government's willingness to run all the anti-grassroots prerequisites for the first and second assessments, even proclaiming compromises on the issue of workers, which is the core of the next round of attack. The BSE issue also considers that the main prerequisite for the second assessment is work, whereas, in particular, the intervention of the BSE for collective bargaining gives the outline in which the new legislation will be initiated, irrespective of the final wording. Based on what they write and say to all tons, even if the government regains collective bargaining, these will be a 'empty shirt' for workers, with the limitations and framework they are preparing. This is also confirmed by the debate on how to determine the minimum wage. If one adds to this the obstacles to the strike movement that the government wants to put with the new trade union law, it is clear that the aim of the whole effort is to shield capitalist profitability beyond any unforeseen factor relating to the popular movement and to create conditions for the development of struggles. Therefore, collective bargaining can take place according to the announcements made by the Government and the famous social acquis of the European Union, but it will be done with clearly marked cards at the expense of workers, our people and with new obstacles to the working people's movement to organise its struggles. The scene is supplemented by the government's intention to discuss the increase in the rate of redundancies depending on the number of workers employed by a company and the formal abolition of the ministerial veto into the collective redundancies, with a view mainly to the restructuring of the former ECHO, which is now part of the semester and is preparing for further privatization. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget refugee. The consequences of the policy of caging facing the refugee - immigration - the government and the European Union are now being seen in a very strong way. In this gloomy setting, there is an attempt to hide the great picture, namely war, which bears the refugee and which also involves the Greek Government in many ways, involving the Greek people in an unsoluble bucket of dangerous competitions and conflicts. The causes of the terrible refugee situation have the same root as the attack by workers in our country and throughout the European Union by the governments of big capital. Ladies and gentlemen, for weeks of weeks, with analyses of government and Civilian Representation officials, they have dizzy the people with the infamous account that the Prime Minister and the President of the New Democracy would develop in their interventions in Thessaloniki first and then elsewhere, in other activities. Finally, they both confirmed the anti-population strategy of the SYRIZA Government and the Opposition Officer, New Democracy, around the objectives of capital and even trying to force our people behind these foreign objectives, claiming that he has something to gain from their achievement as well. Both the government's realities and what SYRIZA and New Democracy announcing include the savage charisma of the people, the scrubbing of funds related to meeting people's needs, and the people lose in one way and another, regardless of the proportion chosen each time in the anti-popular mix of this management. It is time for the Greek people to say "the sacrifices for the profits of the few", "the abolition of all the unpopular laws of recent years", "the cover of our losses", "the increase in wages, pensions, social benefits", "the reintroduction of collective labour contracts", "the cheap current and water for the people", "the permanent and stable work for the workers in energy, water, all sectors of the economy", "to strengthen the fight against market liberalisation, to open the way for the only philosophical solution that the people need today." We learn lessons from the battles and struggles of the previous years. We draw useful conclusions to strengthen the struggle. Measures serve pluralism. It is a tool for the abolition of basic popular rights. They have led to the bankruptcy of our people. This is the strategy of the government, the European Union, their parties and forces and their factions within the movement that support it. They took the back of the workers' ladder movement to bring up anti-grass governments. The Greek people must no longer allow that. Our negative vote in the new reactionary multi-billion plan is given. It will also be our struggle against anti-popular policies and our action in the movement, in the struggles against those and those in here who raise their hands and vote for the unacceptable bills of slaughtering our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u501	Thank you, Mr President. The President of the Central Association, Mr Vassilis Leventis, has the floor. I'll let you know that the previous Chiefs spoke just 15 minutes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u502	Yesterday was the sad anniversary of the murder of Paul Bakoyannis and I saw that both Dora Bakoyannis and Kyriakos Mitsotakis received a statement saying that this great politician spoke of consensus and compositions. Is the New Democracy today consensual? Is anything taught by the late? I'm asking the Chamber. I was at my house watching the process. The New Democracy didn't even say much about SYRIZA selling it all. And as far as I'm concerned, everything is sold out. New Democracy is not wrong in that. But is Mr. Tsipras the bad guy who wants to sell everything? No, it's just that the country has come into a situation. Tsipras has two options: Or he blows everything in the air and we go to Grexit or he signs it all. In the middle, ladies and gentlemen, there is no way. And you know why it doesn't exist? Because since 2009, the crisis has occurred, governments have fooled Europeans. When we wanted to get our dose, we went to Parliament everything. But the strangers then didn't see the reforms being implemented, they went into the dusty time. The first time, the second time, they saw and died, and they came to the conclusion that we are cheaters. This conclusion is not easy to change. Today's Greece and Parliament are binding on this feeling in Europe and abroad, that we are mocking, that we are a corrupt political system that we are not prepared to reform. Neither was Samaras a bad guy going through anti-grass measures, wage cuts, etc. He wasn't bad either. It's just that there was a bad Opposition, and that's when he was saying traitors, the rulers. That was the situation. Half the House says the other half traitors. That is why I mentioned Bakoyannis' example. Indeed, Paul Bakoyannis was a composer. But today's House does not understand that. So I think we've taken a very wrong path. There's no salvation. The Greek people are completely disappointed. Those most disappointed are the homosexuals who asked me: “Who is the worst? Tsipras or Mitsotakis?’ They didn't ask me who's the best. "Who is the worst?" They asked me. And then the papers wrote something that I would like to clarify in the Chamber. I said another one, another one was written in the papers. Because there is no more subtle way to "execute" the view of being told than to take it distracted and not transmit it whole. And I said to them: "The New Democracy is permanent in the service of great capital. He used to serve it permanently. It's their way. It's the right-hand side. I do not mislead them personally." But Tsipras in 2015 came to Genarris and said he would "do" Merkel, that he would unite the South Against the North, that he would change everything, that Europe would change. And we ended up in July 2015 to sign it all. And I said that a betrayal of the Right is a betrayal of conscience on the issues of the service of the great capital, and Tsipras raised the bar too high, inspired the youth that there is a third way and the youth and its dreams were demolished. And I say: 'If there was a political court, Mr. Tsipras would perform it'. In what sense did I say that? In the sense that it was a great fraud against society. Because inspiring young people with dreams, making her fight and then abandoning her is not the best. I couldn't do that thing. That's exactly what I said. That was my conversation. And it was written in the press: "Leventis asked for Tsipras to be executed." I gave that answer. Of course, I supplemented that Mr. Tsipras turned to seriousness and soundness, but I am sure there are weights in his party. I watch SYRIZA Members on television, who do not believe in Europe. Nor too little nor too much are they threatening 'or Europe wants us as we are or...'. They go through a language that they don't believe in what we're doing. As a country they don't believe in what we're doing. Because a government majority had to fight in favour of the views and projects and measures of the government. I saw no Members' battle. I saw an apologetic style of some people because of course they all bear what they said in the past. It doesn't forget what they said in the past. But this is where all the wings of the Parliament are accusing SYRIZA of cutting the farmers from the very poor, cutting off their free professionals young people, putting the insurance funds. He doesn't do that because he wants to. A Prime Minister is not a pleasure when he passes such measures. However, we have reached a political system of fifty years of corruption, having two solutions: either blowing them all up or signing them all. This is the evolution, if you want the truth. If you want to live in lies and error, it is one’s right. Mr Cremastino, whom I saw yesterday - you are in the Chair, I am pleased - I met him at the entrance of my office, showing me a law by saying that the government is selling everything for ninety-nine years and even that it can be extended for another ninety-nine years. I looked at him, and when I went inside, what did I think? Could it be true what Mr Cremastino said, but does Mr. Tsipras have a different solution? Can the Prime Minister resist the Europeans' requirement? You tell me. There was a system that ate the world's money, there were the assignments, the ruffles, the scandals and a specific situation. What can Tsipras do? You say he agrees with the complainants' views, what does he do? Don't get over the prerequisites? Does he have the power? When Samaras passed the prerequisites, was he a bad man? So here we have two parties which conflict with power in order to take it. That is what the New Democracy is doing now is intended only to take over power. And Tsipras did what he did - I told him - to take over power did. I don't suppose he thought he'd join the South against the North. Did he believe it? If he believed it, he's not a prime minister. If Mr. Tsipras believed that he would unite the South against the North and that Merkel would retreat, that thing, I'm sorry, but I'm sure he didn't believe it. He just wanted the votes. Therefore, do not yell at either cutters or overseers. It is the result of a corrupt course, which may be over fifty years. That's Greece. Didn't he carry something south here? If you ask them one, they don't want to look like Greece at all. They came here for general discussions, but if you tell him Portuguese or Italian, make a statement that you will put your back on Greece, defeat the austerity, they will tell you: "No, my friend." That's the truth. We don't have any accomplices in the caterpillar. In my opinion, there are no supporters in the country's catastrophe. The demand and what the homosexuals ask me is: “Why do you not make a government great? Why don't they find them?’ I say that now, after the vote on the simple analogy, which Mrs. Fofi and Mr. Stavros gave to Mr. Mitsotakis fifty seats in the next election, now Mitsotakis why should he go back? He tells you, "I'll get a hundred forty-five, I won't find another seven - eight from there and there?" So why would he go back? There's no way he'll back off. So the appetite for self-resistance took away. This is what happened in Greece. And they will not come to the convergence table, so for the country I believe that there are now three solutions: Or that Tsipras will follow his Golgotha and collapse, because it is certain that the collapse - if he thinks it will be a mistake - or that the Ecumenical I asked for from September that the Union of Centres has entered the House or that we should go to elections. Mr. Tsipras' mind will choose. He will choose, I hope a little bit of the country's interest. Because if he looks only at his own future, politicians who were only looking at their own future were also harmed by themselves in all the states. They reached the point about Athena, where the Centro Association is organizing a gathering on October 10 at 19: 00, at night, - Athena is a center here in Athens - to say that Tsipras gave it to me, who left and went to "DIVANI CARAVEL". Listen to what myths are wrong! The other legend is that Kammenos leaves the government and Leventis comes. Even my wife told me: 'Have you done anything insidious that I don't know about?' We're there. What can I say? In other words, the centres were politicized. I thought we'd left the time of the yellow, green, blue cafes, but the country doesn't go any further. In this Chamber, after the vote on the simple analogy, there is a situation against the government, an axis. I see that in all the Potami, PASOK and New Democracy vote together and accuse me of saying that 'you are not together, so you are with Tsipras'. I feel the need to answer. I and Tsipra won't go and he knows it myself. I told him. No matter how much it takes. Elections will be provoked. I don't vote. It's a statement in front of the Greek people. If he leaves five MPs, he'll have an election. He can't rely on me. What I did, do and will continue to do, is call on Mr.Mitsotakis and Mr. Tsipras to overcome their egos and build a government as all Greece wants and as the Homogeny wants. I did not expect the relatives - I was in the United States of America for a six-day time - to be so mature. I did not expect them to have such an interest in Greece, such a pain. It's a lot of pain. They say: "We are forced and continuously send turbour in our villages, neighbors, friends, who are so impoverished." Greeks are forced and fleeing to Germany, Australia, the United States of America. It's over, to me, Greece. There's no Greece, ladies and gentlemen. There is no Greece. If you think there is Greece because the MPs are paid, you are wrong. Greece in the consciousness of the world, from Evros to Crete, is no longer there. And we need to rebuild it from scratch, on solid bases, because these bases are now unclean and have been undermined. They're talking about people's pensions, and people are right. They're cutting his pensions. But if we get to the bottom of it, the New Democracy's cut off. So a general took 2,800 euros, Samaras took it, and now Tsipras 1,050 euros. That's the situation. People have arrived, and even people who have taken loans, to total impoverishment. Pensioners catch me on the street and say, "Stack back, cut pensions no more." After the insurance funds have been bankrupt, pensions depend on investment. If there is no new blood in the state, and we simply take one order and give the other one, we will be destroyed. That's what the Prime Minister does now. No new income, new development, puts the wine a tax, puts it on the islands of VAT, increases taxes on heating oil. I admire Tsipras. Do you know why? Because I couldn't cut pensions from the world nor put VAT on the islands could Vassilis Leventis. I admire him for doing it. I would not have the strength to turn the stealing of the mighty to poor people. And since I think that my time is over, Mr Cremastine - which I would expect from you when the affliction of the last fifty years took place to make the warnings so that we do not get to bankruptcy and not now, after the bankruptcy took place, say 'Look at Tsipras, he gives it all to strangers', that is what I would expect of you - I will make a recommendation on two issues, on religion and on television licences. I, although Mr. Poppas has achieved something that he has achieved and took money from a place that this country has never taken any money, say they will not close the channels, but put them in 60 million each and whoever can pay, stay. It's my view. You're listening. You have your opinion, too. It is, however, my view that it would be wrong to hear in Europe that we had eight channels of national scope and that we close half. If people can pay, and if they fulfil the conditions for pluralist programme, for the payment of workers' insurance funds, etc., they will remain open. If they don't succeed and close, they close themselves, the government doesn't close them. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the President is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] The second is for religion. At this time when the country is hungry, at the time our young people are leaving, is it time for Mr. Friends to remove religiouss?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u503	Please, Mr President, conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u504	I beg the Prime Minister, who is supposed to show modesty and is not his old '15, is a man who shows that he believes in Europe, does not let the ministers make him the complete catastrophe, the full character. Unless Mr. Tsipras has completely lost his self-determination and lost control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u505	Thank you. As the President of the Central Group mentioned me, I have to say that I did meet him in the hallway and said about what I said to the committee responsible the other day. So, what did I tell the committee? I said that, in my opinion, the company's founding article must be renegotiated. In my opinion. Because, as it is written, after ninety years, it can unilaterally be extended, i.e. from a company with its board of directors or if you want the shareholders, that is what you realise is a big problem. I believe that, and I said so to the committee responsible the other day. You can see it in the Minutes. I didn't say more or more. The Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Mr. Spirtzis, wants to make some legislative announcements. Do you want the floor for five minutes, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u506	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u507	Five minutes for legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u508	Oh, no. It's my speech, Mr. Teddy. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Infrastructure corresponds to Articles 18 and 19 of the bill you have in your hands. Article 18 aims to repay the rental of rolling stock by ‘TRAINOSE’ to GEOSE and Article 19 refers to the public service obligations, with a view to repaying the OSE from ‘TRAINOSE’. The legislative improvements we have to submit are about formalities and nominations. in the text of Article 18, paragraph 8 of Article 8 is replaced by the following: Numbered in paragraph 1. in the fifth subparagraph of paragraph 1 of Article 18, the words ‘applicable in proportion to the provisions of the preceding paragraph’ shall be deleted; The sixth subparagraph of Article 18(1) shall be deleted and the same shall be added after the seventh subparagraph. The words ‘in accordance with Article 2 of the CEDEFOP and Article 55 of the CEDEFOP shall be added to the seventh subparagraph of paragraph 1 of Article 18. Regulation (EEC) No 16/89, as applicable.' In the eighth subparagraph of Article 18(1), the words ‘the content of the financial list’ shall be deleted. In the last subparagraph of paragraph 1 of Article 18, the words ‘subject to the relevant provisions of the second paragraph of Article 18,’ shall be added after ‘exempted from any tax or charge’. Regulation (EC) No 2859/2000 (VAT code), as applicable.’ And Article 18(2) adds a paragraph that ‘TRAINOSE’ gives GEOSE the rent ratio of 2014, the rent ratio of 2015 and the rent ratio of 2016, in accordance with the lease agreement of the OSE Rolling Stock - ‘TRAINOSE’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u509	To be submitted to the Minutes, Minister, to be distributed, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u510	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u511	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going through a time when the government is really fighting for the conclusion of the negotiation. In the next few days, I would like to inform you that the draft law on the restructuring of the Civil Aviation Service will come. We are still negotiating, and I think it is going well. We'll discuss this in a separate draft law as you know. Within this effort we are making, we are faced with a hostile environment on all fronts: in evaluation, in the canal contest, in personal and collective attacks. At the same time, we have to try on the institutional areas and other areas that exist in our country for decades. A characteristic example is urban transport, since it is the issue of news in Athens, but mainly in Thessaloniki. I have listened very carefully and with respect, and I wanted to make a few remarks, because he referred to the bleeding that we have been dealing with engineers, lawyers, economists abroad who have no work to do. So in an attempt to extrovert the country, we tried public services to go abroad and claim projects. Listen to this example to see what we have inherited and if a rationalization like the one described before the Minister of Finance is needed. So the "ATTIC MEETRO" and SSY went down in a competition in Israel. The two companies were cut out of the competition. They were rejected because employees of both companies participated in another Israel tender. I don't know if you know what I'm saying. We made four visits to various foreign countries at the request of the Prime Minister. We've got public agencies doing all the work you have to do to get to a competition abroad and they're cut off, because certain members of the two companies participated in other shapes. This is the situation and even worse for public bodies. We have given the disciplinary orders to the relevant bodies. And it's not the only example. I can mention a number of examples. We said yesterday at the hearing of the institutions that the "KIRIAN INDUSTRY S.A." do not have any property. They have a debt of EUR 800 million. They also have hundreds of millions of euros in claims. You know that the "ATITIC MEASURES S.A." has a debt of more than 2 billion euros for the projects it has carried out. Is it possible for anyone to say that these bodies that go to the new fund are for privatisation? Is that possible? There doesn't have to be another state structure? Does not there need to be a monitoring structure for these bodies at the Ministry, which has not existed all these years? We don't have an address for fixed tracking projects. Ten years had to solve the problems posed by railroads in concession projects.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u512	Who's blocking you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u513	No one's blocking me, and I'm doing it. Why didn't you do it? That's the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u514	Please, Mr. Bourra. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u515	I'm on it. In fact, with the attack we are under attack, we have been tempted too many times to respond in the same way, but we will not follow you, to know it. You have brought - and you have responsibilities - the country and the insurance system to the point where they are. You have had and continue to have privileged relationships with the banking system. You remember them, I imagine, and you know them. You continue to be the electors of the canalarchs. Some give a show somewhere in the House or elsewhere and is reproduced on known channels at the speed of light. You're trying to drop the government so your chosen old canals won't pay. I would like to appeal to you: Stop shaking about the channels you have not been authorised for more than twenty years. You're exposed to your friends. Stop shaking about your parties' loans. Put no euro on your loans to serve and enjoy it. We won't be happy for our mother either. The canal contest will be completed. The first instalment was deposited with the Treasury. Then you will complete the country's evaluation and exit from the crisis and the stagnation that you have put it in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u516	Thank you. The President of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Michaliokos, has the floor. You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u517	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the bill, which is the subject of today's sitting - a bill on the order of the third memorandum signed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government - I want to make a complaint. In the 1950s and 1960s the country's Armed Forces was the famous lesson of national and moral discipline, where it became anti-communist propaganda. At this time, it seems that the current government is in its mind and is applying it against the Golden Dawn. I have in my hands the photocopy of a form, which is from seminars held at the Greek Police, which does not belong to any party and is obliged not to turn against any party, such as Golden Dawn. It's not from anyone's grace. It is with the vote of the Greek nationalists. Hundreds of thousands of Greeks. This booklet therefore became a seminar in the Greek Police. The European Union's Agency for Fundamental Rights did so. It is an agency of the European Union itself. It is called "Racism, discrimination, intolerance and extremism: lessons from experiences in Greece and Hungary". This booklet mentions: "In 2012 and 2013 Golden Dawn MPs participated in attacks against immigrants, destroyed the benches maintained by immigrants on popular markets and attacked verbally". This has been judged by Greek justice, there has been an acquittal and yet the government teaches you to the Greek Police. Finally the witch hunt stops. It is forbidden for the Greek Police to make politics against a party elected by the Greek people. I am putting the brochure in the Practical in store of every legitimate right to state that we Chrysayites did not solve us neither the prisons nor the bullets and we will continue to fight the seminars and the competitors within the Greek Police who, instead of protecting the Greek people, are doing a purely propaganda project. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] [[At this point the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn submits for the minutes the above-mentioned document which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The Minister spoke earlier, Mr Spirtzis, on the subject of television licences. Of course, on this issue the New Democracy has taken the place that we all know. It would be out of the question to tell us as Golden Dawn that we were happy with the former regime. It was a terrible regime that was riding the country's political life, directed the country's political life. We have the complaint from Mr. Javarra from New Democracy that he said he was cut off from "MEGA" and specifically from journalist Mr. Tremmy because on some show she didn't like what he said. It was, in other words, a regime, which I believe continues to exist, not just cycling political parties but also selecting individuals. Don't hide behind our finger. There were MPs of all the factions who were the homes of the pimps, and so they had the TV window every time. A great deal of noise occurred after the competition that we do not agree with and which had the information of a casino - I would say - and no importance was given to the quality elements. It was all very rough, but a big subject was raised in Mr. Kalogritsa's case. Really, did you guys look into SYRIZA with Mr. Kalogrisa to put him as a contender of one of the television licenses? As Mr. Kalogritsas was well known, he had been borrowed with EUR 127,6 million from the Bank of Attica. The 77.6 million of these took when SYRIZA had the country’s rule, but also on the days of Samaras and Venizelos, the conflict, namely, New Democracy and PASOK, Mr. Kalogris had taken 50 million. In other words, if he didn't get 77 million on SYRIZA, Mr. Kalogritsa would get 50, as he had taken over the days of the New Democracy, there would be no problem. In short, and quite simply, the sinful status of sea-fashioning continues, as is apparent, normally in the days of SYRIZA and the New Democracy, for its part, has no moral right to accuse the government of doing so, because the same thing was happening in their days. In fact, can anyone answer from New Democracy how many controls did the Bank of Greece do for the sea loans when it became the big fuss in the banks? Of course there was no check and that was never the case. About now, the broadcasts. We used to have the PSE, the National Broadcasting Council, a weak instrument, which is how you want it to stay now and in the position of old pimps to enter some new pimps. What did the PSE do? We have the Committee of Inquiry, it is my competitor, Mr Cassidy, there as a representative of the Golden Dawn, and when he asks the broadcasters "Why do you not show, as the law provides, the provision of the PSE, the Golden Dawn" states, "we don't know anything, the journalists are answering." We once had the king who was irresponsible to ruler, now we have the journalists. And, of these journalists, it is worth it, if the government really wants transparency, to do a survey of which of them have taken loans from the banks to buy villas without guarantees. Because the regime is sinful and I am sorry, but I do not see the current government having the political will to stop this regime. And I would like to make a comment on this point: whenever it comes to stranding, opacity, someone always comes out of the SYRIZA side and says that "the Left is innocent. He did not rule.’ Are you serious, gentlemen? Left is innocent. The left are innocent? Did not Christos Kalogericas have a political identity when he took 127 million sea-love with guarantees of pasture? So when a left man does something, it's not the left one's fault. If a right-wing or a nationalist do so, it is the right or the nationalist party that is responsible collectively. Stalinist propaganda, which won't have any impact. Subject of today's meeting the prerequisites of the memorandum. At this point I would like to say to the honourable Members and ladies who will vote against this bill, but they voted in favour of the SYRIZA memorandum in August 2015, that they are making free and irresponsible opposition, because all of this was provided for in the SYRIZA memorandum in August 2015. Where is the country heading? Is there a future without a debt complaint? I read from the newspaper “DIMMOCRATIA” two days ago, in March 2014, the Public Debt Management Agency, in response to a question submitted to Parliament, made a list of the amounts that the State will have to pay for debt and interest by 2030. Listen to numbers to figure out what a dead end the country continues to go on. In 2021, our country will pay 7,169,000 euros and interest 10,951,000 euros. In 2022, the debt of EUR 8,873,000 and the interest of EUR 24,489,000. Excessive amounts in 2023 and 2024. In four years' time, the Greek state will have to pay more than EUR 104 billion through Greek taxpayers. Where will this money come from? There's not that money. Already, Greeks owe the state more than 90 billion euros. Stop this tax policy, it leads nowhere. We have had an opportunity recently in the case of ELSTAT to bring the debt issue and the subject of the memorandum. It's fake evidence, justice says so, it's investigated. And instead of taking this opportunity through the mouth of Mr Juliarakis, the Minister responsible, he said that we accept it as true to ELSTAT. For its part, however, the New Democracy by mouth Mrs. Kyriakos Mitsotakis at the TV station "SKAI" in his interview with Mr. Papachela was clear and said that it was not of interest to the Greek people what happened in 2009. He is interested in the Greek people, because he is skinned by the memorials and is responsible for SYRIZA and New Democracy and PASOK for this fracture of the country. Yesterday, at the TV station of Parliament, I was referring to a matter that was entirely related to the debt, there was an interview between the well-known historical Greek, German, the origin of Hagen Flisser, who revealed that in his investigation into the archives in Germany even in 1945 the mortgage loan is recognized. Why does this government, like the previous one and all the governments not make a claim through the international courts of the borrower? We, who tell us fascists, demand it. You, the democrats, do nothing! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] There is no solution to Greece's financial problem if the debt is not denounced. I come to the bill, to the prerequisites. How will the SYRIZA - ANEL Government solve Greece's economic problem? Chapter A, Article 1. Of the OGA members, farmers who are already in a state of literal destruction and from 4.7% will go to 6.9% to 6.9% to 6.9% to the OGA insured. And how much of these are you going to get? How much will they be secured? 37m euros will be secured when we say that in four years' time only 104m euros will be required. And who did you find to destroy? The OGA's insured. The same is true for small tourist enterprises, where 14% of the tax-paying will be called upon to pay 20%. Here, you've finally discovered the big capitalists! They're the ones who have the rooms. That's how you hit the complication. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In addition, the facility is abolished for young professionals who have been able to pay reduced contributions. And I come to the most essential point, the main issue that is self-determination in the so-called superstate, which is a requirement of the memorandum, and it is a guarantee that foreign lenders can put their hands in the excess. And join them, both the water organization of the capital city, the EEAS, and Thessaloniki, with a clear statement - in order not to vote against it - that they will be of a public character. But how can they be of a public character and belong to the excess, which is bound by the Memorandum? The same happens with ELVO, a company that is directly related to the Armed Forces, which has built up armoured personnel transport tanks, as well as the "ATTRO". All of this to ensure the dose. I conclude by saying that the memorandum is the destruction of Greece, and the first and second and the left. The Left does not represent the innocent, since many left-wingers have proved exquisite in the theft of capitalist and are in all these uncovered lovitations. The Golden Dawn will consistently fight for Greece of the Greeks, so that this land will remain Greek and that we do not give land and water to foreigners, who are literally handing this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u518	Thank you. I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: 'Following the Paris Agreement to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change'. Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u519	Ladies and gentlemen, the masks have fallen. Following the commemorative Samara of the three "Zapia" and the 18 billion equivalents, the government first comes to the left and moves along the path of the national strategy that has drawn up the 2009-2011 PASOK. Why? To keep the country standing. So it comes today, seven years later, the government on the road to realism. And here are the questions: why didn't you, gentlemen of the Government and of the Coupling earlier? What did you then serve, ladies and gentlemen, and you did not contribute to the country coming out of the crisis. That is what I am asking myself, and that is what the Greek people and Greek citizens are asking. Gentlemen of the government, if you had entered a government of national co-operation and national responsibility, we would have come out of the crisis, followed the path of Cyprus, Ireland, Spain and Portugal. There would be hope and perspective for the new generation, which greets us and leaves us abroad. Today you're releasing the state property to the lenders. This is the deepest meaning of the plan with the prerequisites. Today the Greek people are aware that Mr. Tsipras' programme is not the one of Thessaloniki, it is not what he voted for. What is it? It is the result of the third memorial that he brought in August 2015. But everything 'will', magical recipes, fairy tales once end, and then everyone has to apologize. We expect this apology from Mr Tsipras and the SYRIZA - ANEL government. Instead, you are bringing today, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to the vote on Mr Shoeble's proposal. Who's that? A superstition. A privatisation fund with a five-member supervisory board, chaired by a CEO designated by the lenders. The other three members will be appointed by the Minister, with the consent and assent of the lenders, of course. Who's gonna decide? A majority of four fifths will decide. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, the loaners will be beaten and we will be dancing. The one in response to Mr. Tsipras was talking about duo and dancers. However, the result is well known. A fund of superpowers in our public property. That is what Mr Tsipras has done with his government, with the most famous seventeen-hour negotiation. So at the superstition, PPC, HSH, HSHP, “Building Infrastructures” and ELVO passes today. You told us some time ago that they will not be done for the first time in the government. And here's the oxymobile. There is a rapid divestment of public-interest companies, and indeed, in summary procedures, which give public wealth to lenders for ninety years, pretext, of course, to avoid deficits. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you were folding your clothes before the elections to the small PPC. The Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras and the Minister, then, had come to annul the law in order for PPC to remain state-run. Let me remind you here that in PPC today the public holds 51%, and the rest 41% is relocated. From 51% of the government's population in 17% has been transferred to the HIAD, and 34% will be transferred to the Public Participation Company. Let me remind you that the previous government had agreed 17% not to be sold by the GOI. So we expect your own actions. As for 34%, we kept it in the Greek state and you're giving it to the superstate. Same as H.D.A. The public held 64%, the former agricultural bank 10% and 23% is relocated. Now what? Now you're transferring from the government rate to 11% at the ICT and 50% at the Public Participation Company. The same logic for both the JHA and the other companies in the public interest. You're releasing us, Mr. Tsipras. So you redeemed your election krone, Mr Varoufakis' plan B, the referendum and all the other risky dice you have thrown for the country. Today, you are baptizing neoliberal policies as left. And what do you ask of us? You're asking for our consent. Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Shame on you! It is a shame to put us to vote to abolish the discounts on young scientists who have up to five years of insurance. You are talking about fair growth and you are integrating tourist entrepreneurs into areas of less than two thousand inhabitants into the OSCE. You have them pay 20% of their main insurance income, plus 6.9% in favour of the EEAS. This means that it does not remain a café for a café in a village, both in island Greece and in the mainland. Ladies and gentlemen, do not close your eyes. Don't be overwhelmed by your vote on the economy. Do not complete society and citizens. You claim to put the TV scenery in order, with an unprecedented, perforated competition, without the creation of the PSE. It is a travesty, with SYRIZA Bank scandal smells with SYRIZA Channel, implicating the Attica Bank with loans and interest rates below costs. Stop the sliding, gentlemen of the government. Our main ministers, all our debts, are the support of the Attica Bank and not the restoration of it, because we support our funds, our economy, the small shareholders who see their losses of 80% of the bank's share value. Don't drive the economy to the tartars. And here's a suggestion. Mr. Minister. If you really mean it, bring all the findings from all the banks in the House. It's all about transparency. With transparency, everything in the light. All of us must support the workers and especially the government which you have led with your own actions and the closure of stations so many people in unemployment. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the future of the next generation is now being mortgaged. The future of our children is mortgaged. Do not, then, grant the vote on our national sovereignty. Today the Greeks really lose their property and in this act we are against by voting against everything that you brought as prerequisites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u520	Thank you, too. Mr. Jellonis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u521	Ladies and gentlemen, by following these two days' positions, particularly on the government side and in particular on the Ministers' side, what I have to say is that it is now clear to everyone that the political changes to the conflict have ended. Today, it's time for the truth. But he's really an expert. They are once again using the practice of lying as a political method. And we see that in the public sphere lies are circulated, they do exist everywhere. Words have lost their meaning and this has the effect of eliminating critical thinking and opening the way to irrationalism and conspiracy. And what we didn't hear! We have heard from Mr Katrugalo a new theory on the third memorandum. It wasn't the defeat in the negotiations, it wasn't creative ambiguity. We deliberately signed - it says - the third memorandum to restore the neoliberal policies of the first and second memorandum!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u522	I never said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u523	So, Mr. Katrugale, did you restore pensions by cutting off the NSA to 380,000 pensioners? By also cutting the supplementary pension allowance to 280,000 pensioners? By further reducing the main pensions - what you are referring to - by increasing the health contribution? By reducing the Equity Fund with dividends of 11% to 63% minus? By reducing the single 15% to 18%? You hurt the Greek pensioners, and you're on board for that! On the other hand, we have heard Mr Spirtzi make recommendations to us that we who have left PASOK do not represent the socialist PASOK, but represent it himself with the political opportunists, political perverts and chair hunters! And I would like to say to him that neither our social sensitivity nor our political identity is questioned, much more today than what? With the so-called left radicalism of SYRIZA, which conceals the obsession with stateism, colonisation, customer relations and has, as I said before, produced the practice of lying in a political method? Or, in relation to Mr Kammenos's false ethnic speech and right-wing conspiracy, who is also a privileged partner and an interlocutor of the coup d'état and Mr Tsipras? Or did the sense of national duty that we had as a political site to support the country matched us well or ideologically with New Democracy? No, ladies and gentlemen - the Greek people are listening to us too - we have not lost our soul and, above all, we have not lost our ideological stigma. And to all these political dissidents right now - who are looking to find chairs - which Mr Tsipras once again calls upon them, I would be glad to tell them to go, to clarify the political field once and for all in the country. Because everyone who is today from the coup d'état in this Chamber, at least 90% has not been tested in the Greek people's vote. Very quickly you'll be tested and there we'll see something. We will then see the resonance of all of you in society. Because if something unites you today, gentlemen of collapsing and especially of SYRIZA, it is the nightmare of 3%, whether you will or will not enter the House. That is why you have been hooked in power today, you have altered your political character and your political ego, and you are voting unnoticedly no matter what they give you. This nightmare will not be saved, and soon the Greek people will give it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u524	Thank you too, Mr Jelloney, and the consistency of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u525	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u526	I'd love to, Mr. Catrugale. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u527	I wouldn't take the floor. The speaker has simply been led by a common phenomenon in misinformation lately, namely, to circulate statements of Ministers completely distorted on the Internet. What I'm imputing to you is that you didn't make sure to know if what you've actually given me has been said. I never said the absurdity that we signed a Memorandum, and we wanted to sign it, in order to overcome the two previous Memorandums. My statement was worded: The memorandum that we signed is also a neoliberal text, although much weaker than the previous ones. And the aim of our policy is to inactivate the neoliberal peaks it has and replace its essential measures with development. And I presented, as an example of a similar policy, insurance reform, which was not dictated by the memorandum, but was intended to neutralize it. I'm just telling you that to restore the truth. I am therefore telling you that my specific statement has simply been falsified.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u528	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u529	You're welcome. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u530	Mr President, it has been personally addressed to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u531	Mr. Jeleigh, dialogue is not allowed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u532	I want the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u533	But he didn't say anything to you. Mr. Jelloney, correct his personal position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u534	No, it's not a correction. The Minister from Stepma here - I call on the Minutes of the House - said so. But, I am glad that today the Minister is coming and correcting and says that "the one we said we were making eleven pension cuts, we came here to do even worse."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u535	Now you're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u536	Please! No dialogue. We're moving on. Mr Anastasiades has the floor for five minutes to speak as many as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u537	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has gone unnoticed, or at least it has not been commented on as much as it should have been, a position of the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Dobrovskis, yesterday. So what did Mr. Dobrovskis say? In a round table on increasing the power of the populist parties in the European Union, the Greek Government, the Government of Tsipras, described as a classic example of the populist government, by the King of Latvia. And what else did Mr. Dobrovskis say? He said that, due to your government's policies, your government, the Tsipras Government, in 2015, Greece returned to the recession instead of 2.5% growth, which was planned and implemented, of course, much harder and harder than what was necessary to implement, if the reforms of the previous government continued if, that is, you did not lead the country to the elections in 2015. Unless you think that Mr. Dombrovskis is oppositioning you, or he's one of the dragons you're building and fighting you. It describes, in other words, the results of your notorious hard and proud negotiation. Your government and populism returned to the recession and loaded it with barbaric measures, for what you celebrate, for what you are taking. And you will tell me, Minister: But how is Mr Dombrovskis' position now linked to the debate on today's bill? But here, two days ago, the same work, the same populist tactic, the same populist rhetoric. Because while with the bill you are introducing for the vote, you are dissipating as you abolished provisions that you had passed two or three months ago, yet you all try to convince us, fortunately, in vain, and us and the Greek people, that you are doing the right thing, that what you are doing for the citizens is a good thing. You are trying to convince us how beneficial it is that you are legislating today. You don't have the sensitivity, neither the charity, nor the courage to see reality in the face and ask for an apology from those who have deceived and tried again with your positions in the last two days to deceive them. With more courage you try to mislead the Greek people again. Yesterday, at the hearing of the bodies in the committee, the vast majority of those who came to the debate denounced the changes made by the bill and warned of the negative effects they will have on the market and on the lives of Greek citizens. The President of the Bar Association, the President of the Medical Association, the President of the HNDGS, the President of ELVO, all raised their objections. Only you see them positive and see no negative in relation to what you are legislating. If all this was so good, why didn't you legislate, Minister, last May, but did you celebrate then why did you exclude them? If everything you bring today is so good, why have we lost so many months of exploitation? You didn't leave and leave nothing standing, gentlemen of the conflict. You are canceling today the only positive arrangements of your law, Mr. Minister, Mr. Katrugale, for which you celebrated a few months ago. So we have new contributions to the main pension and care sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u538	Not in the main pension.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u539	Two years earlier, the increase in the contribution to health care for insured persons in the OGA is being speeded up. In addition, EUR 75 million are being charged to farmers in extreme recession. How do you think they will respond to their needs? In the history and consciousness of the next generations you will be recorded as the government that has sold out everything, as a negative example of governance for the next generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u540	Thank you, too. Mr. Arvanitides has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u541	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, once again with the soul in the mouth, again by urgent procedure, again to five, again with the pain of soul, you have been trying for a whole year to close the first assessment. I feel that if there was no deadline at the end of October for disbursing the EUR 2.8 billion, you would have had no problem playing your well-known pattern, the pattern of delays. But you're stalling them on the back of people who are anxiously waiting for the money from this dose. Currently public debt to private individuals reach EUR 6.89 billion. This money is a number, but you owe them to businesses that can't get loans, loans that the chosen government can get, to people who are taxed with 29%, who pay insurance contributions for unpaid pensions, who have more than a year of the capital controls in their heads. Listen. It's obvious there's no plan for where the economy goes. I do not know if you want to do so or if you cannot, but what I know is that you do not respond to the basics either. You're talking about developing the cart in front of the horse. You brought the NSRF and development without a development strategy plan. You'll throw money back on the market in luck, no plan, no targets, and then you'll say we don't have any revenue. Unemployment is growing. Business is closing. That's why the previous ones are always to blame, the complexion. These are not serious things! In the new NSRF there are few programmes, and there are huge problems with some investments in the 2007-2013 programming period, which are at risk of stopping. I tabled a topical question this morning, because I was informed that there is a possibility that only the certified costs of the mid-term verification would be eligible and not the approved costs of the projects as a whole. If, indeed, this is what you have in mind, the padlocks will fall rain. Same picture in developmental. The law was passed in June, we have reached the end of September and the interested parties are still unable to apply. The same in public contracts. The new law has frozen everything, because you have not been able to prepare the ministerial decisions since the beginning of August. Even the kids don't have lunch in the schools of Thessaloniki, because you haven't sent the model documents for the competitions. Minister, I'm sorry to say this, but this is a collapse picture. And as much as you are trying to turn people's attention elsewhere, the reality, unfortunately, is relentless. As far as the insurance you were about to solve, Mr. Catrugale is concerned, IKA has come to seek to break the AAA's pigeon. This is a shame, a real shame! You made an insurance against the new generation and you ask the young children again to pay for the broken system. And as if this were not enough, with today's bill you are abolishing and the provision that allowed reduced contributions to young professionals for the first five years, a provision that would help them in their business start-ups. I'm closing up with the privatizations. Listen, the fact that a majority in Parliament - and I personally - is in favour of making use of public property does not mean that you can put a sales shop on everything, nor does it mean that the privatizations must be done in such a way as to make it easier for the investor. Obviously you must bring investments that the country is in absolute need. But you must at the same time protect the public interest. Here too there are many questions about which you are due to answer. Can anyone tell me why the rents that GIAOSE will receive from TRAINOSE are exempted after privatisation? Can you tell me why the new investor in the port of Piraeus does not pay HIS, while the "Smile of the Child" pays? Can you tell me why the concession agreement for the PPA is a provision that stipulates that the loan-to-deposit ratio can be reached at the end of the concession from 0.7%, which is now, at 6%? Will you do the same with the concession agreement of the EGF? Is that what you call negotiation? Can Mr. Tsakalotos tell us why he continues to provoke citizens on the subject of HSH? Is it possible for you to put water supply operations at the superstition and tell us that as long as the Minister himself is involved, they will not be privatised? Is the question that should concern the Greek people is whether Mr Chakalotos, if he is a minister, sign the sale or will someone else do it in the future? And, of course, what credibility can the Minister speak about red lines when he said a few months ago that while he is in the Ministry of Finance as Minister, the tax-free will not fall from EUR 9 000 and is currently at EUR 8,600? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I still need a minimum of time, Mr President, thank you. Mr. Minister, the patience of the world has been exhausted. The tale of responsibility transfer in the past is convenient, but it has no dragon.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u542	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u543	Just a few more words, Mr President. I'm one of those I've never been abused in time. You have the major debt issue, labour and red loans in front of you. If you fail, the country will soon be in political and economic deadlock and then it will be too late for tears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u544	Thank you, too. The President of the Party The Potami Mr Stavros Theodorakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u545	The last politically interesting hours show, ladies and gentlemen, that this notorious moral advantage has become a burden on your feet. Of course, the real problem is not that you thought you had a moral advantage, because, to be honest, you didn't believe it. The problem, I think, is that you continue to believe that Greek society has this spiritual disadvantage. In short, you are passing the voters - and yours most of all - for fools. Everyone wanted to get away from the complexion of the past, from sea-loving and political dependencies. And you said, yes, we'll leave the sea loans of others, we'll leave the political dependence of others. Here, then, is our great canalarch, with multiple sea-lovings and a carabinat relationship with our party. And it's sad that now, in the last few hours, since yesterday, you've been doing that you don't know the Kalogerica family. And it's not even honest. You put them in front of people, to lose their pastures, and now you say clearly: "We don't know them. We don't even know their name. Squirrel? Pumpkins?’ What exactly was your volunteer name? Even the sketchists wonder. The truth is that you entered a great affliction for "SYRIZA TV", while there was a much simpler road, the way of Mr. Leventis, his friend Mr. Tsipras, I saw that he stayed after his trip to America, crucified with Mr. Tsipras. Mr. Leventis could explain how you are trespassing on a frequency, how you make a channel without money, without taxes, without "KA - Mika" and how that channel after you sell it and you make money and how you win it. But let's go to what concerns us today, even though everything is intertwined. I read: "It is unprecedented and incomprehensible for a clique to decide on the future of public wealth without transparency, without parliamentary supervision and control, as if the vineyards that were inherited from their grandparents were inherited." It's Mr. Tsipras' old self. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day [[Noise in the Chamber]] I want to show you the following: Do you remember them? And we have music. "On 7m in the White Tower we sing about the water. On Sunday we vote 'no' in the privatisation of water. Also: "Attagonistic greetings in Skouries. Save the water. Together, we will put out the great interests." Watch out, the Squirrels where we were. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Party Potami Mr Stavros Theodorakis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Take note of the viral of the last few hours, what you had replicated very much in those days, that Greece is following the road of Chile and Pinochet, who first handed the water to interests. Airports, ports, EYDAP, EGNATIA, OPAP, the Greek one, all should stay state-run. And now everything is sold and everything that's not sold, enters a superstition, which no one knows when and how to exploit public property. A "take everything" without any safeguard.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u546	Isn't that populism?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u547	And together in your bill, a series of unjust arrangements, which the river executives have also mentioned. I will, however, stay on an indicative basis. Remove the discount on contributions for the first five years of insurance for young scientists and young professionals. In other words, no motive to start a job in Greece of crisis, no help for all those with one legs who are in unemployment or with one leg are in another country. Of course, the greatest hypocrisy concerns your statements about fund revenues. The government insists that 50% of the fund's revenue will go to development. It's a half-truth, that is, it's a double lie, because the money from the TDI's privatisations will go 100% to the debt hole and only the other revenues will be shared between growth and debt. We are, however, going to water, because, here, in fact, despite the ridicule of the case of some people's reactions, saying economists and then withdrawing because the Constitution will even be applied to the privatisation of water, there is a serious issue. Mr. Tsipras had said in his visit to the EPHR that the upcoming elections - meaning the elections in Genarris - would also be a water referendum. Now, it's not clear what you're giving. Are you giving the networks of Athens and Thessaloniki? You're giving the factories and the pipelines? Do you give the same sources, rivers, Morno, Eunus, Aliakmon? It is not even clear when and by what procedure any use of the EEAS will be decided, how the U.S.S.S.S. will decide what to sell and what not. Two years ago, the municipality of Berlin paid about six hundred million to a French colossus that had bought water in Berlin to rebuild the water company, because in twelve years in Berlin the water has been expensive by 25%. And it's not just Berlin. European big cities spent ten, fifteen years ago in a model of privatisation of water companies. Now, they recognize the failure of the model. From 2000 onwards, we have a hundred and eighty cities all over the world that buy water companies. But here, there is one question: who is going to exercise for these companies that are going to the supremely price policy in water, metro, trains, to all these companies in the wider public sector, where the waste of the party state has become problematic? Today, the slogan, ladies and gentlemen, is 'a raid on the state'. And your excuse is: 'Others have done so.' The answer is: 'Wherever you are going to cross them'. Tens of SYRIZA strains - ANEL now they're entitled. How did the young man say it with the white limo and family slow payrolls? "My grandparents were in the mountain." And, unfortunately, the country is full of grandparents. Look, let's talk a little bit about public service heads. PPC candidate SYRIZA. ECHR, from the former members of the Coalition, member of the Central Commission at the time. Projects "OSE S.A.", associate of SYRIZA in the field of motorways. OSCE, candidate mayor of SYRIZA. “SYRIZA S.A.”, member of the three-member coordinator of SYRIZA Engineering Organisation. ‘STASY S.A.’, candidate municipal councillor SYRIZA. ‘GENERAL LAW’, Member of the Central Committee of SYRIZA. ‘COMPANY’, spouse of a SYRIZA MEP. ‘OSE SA’, a party member from whom SYRIZA came. OAED, candidate SYRIZA MEP. In addition, SYRIZA's Socialist trend. ETA, candidate municipal councillor SYRIZA. NAT, member of the National Council of ANEL. The list is endless. I'll say two, three more. OGA, candidate regional councillor with SYRIZA. OSH, SYRIZA lawyers' official. Of course, "ATIC MEASURES S.A.", the dean of SYRIZA. To sum up with a phrase and not to say all the businesses that are perpetrated by your own executives: 'Ours are better, better, better and at last they are governors'. But why are they commanders? And let me, here, come to another matter. Why are they commanders and where do they offer? Attica Bank Scandal. You wanted to make Attica Bank the flagship of a parallel banking system, so that obviously the regime's best friends could find money. And we saw how the bank was used in the 'Group TV' case, 'SYRIZA TV'. You have raised funds from public bodies beyond any business, economic logic. Let's see the story from the beginning, but soon. The Bank of Attica had a capital shortfall of around 857 million in the base scenario and 1 billion in the adverse scenario. A bank, namely, with a total of EUR 3.5 billion, was found to have an opening of EUR 1 billion. To give a size class, the National Bank, with an active EUR 29 billion, needed 1.4 billion. But here, as we have said, the plan for a parallel bank for a parallel banking system. He said so publicly, and Mr Drasakis said so. In support of this parallel system, the Government imposed on the administrations of the ECJ to cover the capital increase of Attica Bank. Domestic private investors were not found, as were not found from abroad. However, PPC, HYDAP, ELTA, airport, PPA, PLAT were found. Indeed, in the EESC, the decision was taken by a marginal majority and with the President not to want it. But the party order was obviously stronger. You'll remember the amounts involved. Indicatively: CSMEDA 382 million, HICP 20 million, the Workers' Fund of the Ionian 55 million, airport 10 million. Take note now: The investors who have come to EMSDDA, who have about 10%, Paulson said publicly and to the administration of EMSDDA the disagreements. And he clearly said that the only reason why this investment is justified is that the HSHR is implementing a government policy. A large foreign investor spoke of politically-guided moves. And it obviously sounds on foreign markets and knows and warns other investors what luck they will have if they enter a company that the government continues to guide it politically. So there is a big question: Who instructed the public sector bodies to bet their money on the Attica Bank's stock? I think you've noticed the evidence. Last Friday, the one that passed us, Attica Bank's share was 4.5 cents euro when the recapitalisation was 30 minutes. This means that the Greeks' investment in Attica Bank, the funds, the workers' money, the company's money, was deceived by 85%. The public's money has been dismantled and, unfortunately, no one can say that there will be a return to the value of the share. There must be an answer here. Who's gonna pay for this? Who's the one who gave the order? Because, of course, the money in the public funds, the insurance funds, will not come from both the ministers' pockets and the party administrations of the institutions. And I sum up: You are, gentlemen of the government, the best students - and I said it before, you are beyond - a failed old-fashioned family system. The past few months had shown that in some things, even, they had started to put mind under the pressure of society under the pressure of Europe. And you come over and over. You make the same mistakes this time with a revolutionary abalaz. It is the same way: demagogy, populism and society of frustration and grief. It is perhaps an interesting time of silence to consider how much the new demagogues, the new populists, have cost it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u548	Thank you, too. Mr Mandas, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u549	Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that preferences are not hidden. It's clear. I think, however, that today we have a very interesting debate on this bill. And I would like to make a few points - if I may - from the debate that has taken place and was interesting, in particular, to the point of argument, because there were also in this debate, unfortunately, also screaming and show, which we have been used to lately watching rather sadness. There have been many things in this debate, which I think are interesting. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] It has been heard, for example, that with what we do in insurance, we will wipe out the bourgeoisie class of the country. You know there's an old-time reflection in the field of the Left, if there's a national bourgeoisie in the country. But this is another debate. It has been heard that we have given the entire property for a century. It has been heard that we are facing a social, economic, institutional collapse. It has been heard that we are forming a state, forming a public administration, which is far more advanced than the old-party past in the bad direction and much more. But, ladies and gentlemen, all this sounds like you know when? A few days before the prerequisites were closed and before we entered the second evaluation procedure. It's unhappiness - really unhappiness! - many colleagues - not all - waiting at the corner to fail either to the prerequisites for the second evaluation or, in any case, to whatever we are trying in this difficult way that we have decided to follow, to celebrate, to be justified. I think it's a way too slippery. It doesn't work out anywhere. I am sorry to hear many repeat Mr Dobrovsky's statements in due course. Obviously we take them into account. Do you have any impression that you are leading Mr. Dobrovsky or that sharing with so much comfort and warmth his views deserves you something? At the same time I could say and claim that Mr Moscovisi, who recently made statements, is talking about a comprehensive agreement on debt and IMF until the end of the year. Who's right, exactly? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Smart people are very nice, but they do not contribute to a debate with arguments. I say, then, that the question is not whether one or the other is right. It is the effort that our government is doing with a great deal - I would say - stress and with a great deal of effort to complete a path that is difficult, a course which obviously involves a painful compromise, a course that we think and believe can take the country out at a later stage. In this bill, ladies and gentlemen, the issues which have dealt with our debate were mainly the issue of the new fund and, secondly, the question of changes or changes - within introductory terms -'sharing' to the question of insurance. In all this, of course, you have been caught by an incredible pain in the honor and morality of the Left. It is something that no one can understand, namely, how you from and from the conservative party and from other aspects have such anguish not to mention and leave our left consciousness on the edge. I can assure you, therefore, that with all the difficulties, with all the compromises, we are making a sincere and honest effort very clear. We are saying - and we have made it quite clear from the September elections - that in front of us we have a difficult road, identified by the committee, by supervision, by a memorandum which, despite its differences, is still a memorandum and is still there, and the committee and supervision are still in place at every step of the government's work and really prevents us from doing so. We are making a sincere and struggling effort, on the one hand, and on the other hand not to make - I would say - gossips, in relation to the commitments we have made, on the other hand, to try and attempt in other fields, which are outside the agreement, to set up a programme - we have called it a parallel programme or a compensatory programme - which, however, leaves a specific footprint on our efforts. On this level, there are many things that one can say and recently have been said as an account of the government work and the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. But I won't stand here. I would like to explain once again some things that concern both the new fund and the insurance issues. The core of all the arguments I think lies in the fact that the new fund and the attraction or disposal to it of part of the public property is an assignment, it is a submission, it is a sale etc. I would therefore like to remind you that there is clearly this effort in both the aims and procedures provided for in the law, an effort that is not unprecedented and unprecedented, not only in our country, that is to say to collect public assets under a single roof. This can also help significantly to create a more effective public property strategy and to manage it uniformly by rules.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u550	It was Petrakos! My partner!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u551	Please! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u552	In any case, the operation of the fund will unify the fragmented powers of the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u553	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u554	May I continue, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u555	Yes, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u556	As stated explicitly in the Act, ladies and gentlemen, the fund's supreme body is the General Meeting of the sole shareholder...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u557	Your guy threw it away! What are you yelling at?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u558	Why are you shouting? Your Secretary-General...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u559	Okay, all this space is an exchange of views, ideas, notices and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u560	Mr. Yakumato, respect the speaker!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u561	I fully respect him. Nobody listens to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u562	Keep going, Mr. Mada, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u563	I'm on it. The Fund is the General Meeting of the sole shareholder, i.e. the Greek State, represented by the Minister of Finance. And the fund has two main bodies, which, of course, are the supervisory board and the management board.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u564	Mr. Brutsi, do you realize you're in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u565	I can interrupt, relax and then go on, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u566	Everyone has the right to claim a share of publicity, but not in here, not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u567	Your colleagues asked to see the brochure!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u568	Your attitude is important!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u569	Mr. Cryazides, you are to impose order, not to break her apart.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u570	I imagine you'll give me a few more minutes to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u571	Yes, you're right, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u572	I think it has become quite clear, ladies and gentlemen, from the positions and other aspects... [[Noise - Upheaval in the Chamber]] I cannot go on, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u573	Keep going, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u574	I say that it has also been made clear by the positions of other parties in this House that this fund - unfortunately for some people who have clearly revealed their intention to continue privatising as if they were and what they were - includes within four sub-funds. Of course, within these are both the HFSF and the HFSF, which, on the basis of the previous legacy, do have a certain privatization programme. However, the TECs today go to the Public Participation Company, which is not solely aimed at privatisations. It is also possible to do this, but the main issue - and that is why this great amount of time is also given - is to be able to exploit and increase public assets. And what I think is very disturbing, ladies and gentlemen, is that by joining this new fund there will also be a restructuring process of both the CECE themselves and their own strategies, and in any case it will stop now - and I think that this is important, and I think that all parties - the scope of the CEC to be the field of customer reasonable and party interventions. And that's critical. [[Noise in the Chamber]] From there on, I think - and I shall end with that, Mr President, because I cannot go on like this...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u575	You're right, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u576	I think it was made quite clear by the Minister of Finance and by all of us that there is an absolute commitment from the Government not to privatise itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u577	To vote 'no' then!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u578	However, since there has been a debate, it would be a good thing, ladies and gentlemen, for everyone and every political force to take a clear stand. There have also been clear positions here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u579	What do you want, Mrs. Marcus?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u580	However, I would like to finish with regard to the debate that has taken place with regard to the legislative improvement and say that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u581	Mr. Constantinople, you can go out of the Chamber and tell Mr. Papadopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u582	Do you see me alone?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u583	Outside, I say. You don't respect the speaker. You don't respect him! Only when you're at the Step you want to be respected. Quiet, Mr. Constantinople!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u584	In any case, I should like to conclude by saying that such legislative improvements have been made in the past. I shall submit to the Minutes four corresponding legislative improvements which have been reflected in the explanatory statement. I would like to say that for the decision of the Council of State which is now reflected in the explanatory memorandum to the draft bill, on the basis of our amendment, some of you have made as if there were no. We therefore also capture it in the explanatory statement by putting further barriers, if you like, to any plans to privatise water. I am presenting in the Minutes these four previous cases where there have been similar legislative improvements and imprints in the explanatory statement. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Mantas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Unfortunately, the climate was not such that one can say arguments. I'm sorry about that. I'm really sorry because it doesn't help in dialogue, which some people seem to care about at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u585	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u586	About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u587	There's a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u588	There's no personal matter. Nobody mentioned you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u589	You made a reference to my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u590	Please, Mr. Cryazides!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u591	I expect you to withdraw. You know I honor you, but I'm not to impose order. I expect you to withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u592	Good. You're for the opposite.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u593	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u594	What do you want, Mr. Kegeroglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u595	The Rules of Procedure are hereby amended.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u596	I expect you to withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u597	Please sit down! Finish the show. It's over. Sit down. It happened before. You're decayed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u598	Mr President, I expect you to withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u599	He's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u600	Before it was showtime! Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u601	Mr President, give the example.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u602	Please sit down! Others did the show! Leave it now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u603	And please. I am for another purpose, Mr President, and I have spit blood to be here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u604	Good. If you understood, I told you directly that you must keep the order here, the ethics and the parliamentary order. I told you indirectly to keep the parliamentary order. Please sit down. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u605	Mr President, I have asked for the floor from the Rules of Procedure, precisely for what you have said, in order to ensure that the order is respected. Previously, we have witnessed an action by two former Members of Parliament concerning SYRIZA and the privatisation of everything that it promotes in accordance with and with the phase - which it has shared in a strange way. He shared to remind you that you are in the Hall of Conscience and what you were saying before. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Yes, it is on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u606	Excuse me! Mr. Kegeroglu!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u607	They're asking me and I'm answering. So in order to respect Articles 11(5) and 56(3) and (11) concerning the order of order and the obligations of the listeners, I would ask the Bureau of Parliament that there be no punishment for Members of Parliament,... [[Noise - protests in the Chamber]] ...who you had to make sure he's in these benches and not in the gallery. On these benches are the MPs, but you have ruled them out so that they do not remind you of what you were saying to the Greek people and what you are doing today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u608	Mrs Karamanlis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u609	Thank you, Mr President. I see there's a long agony about what SYRIZA's former partner, Mr. Petrakos, flew out of the gallery. I won't read it, I'll testify to it in the Minutes. It's a text from someone who took Nobel Literature... [[Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] ...and I dedicate it to SYRIZA colleagues who deserve Nobel hypocrisy! I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Anna Karamanlis, presents for the minutes the above text, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You also said, Mr Manda, that we have an interesting conversation with showcases and crowns. I believe that we do have an interesting debate in the absence of SYRIZA. I imagine that it is not a lie, Mr Manda, that only thirteen of your colleagues from SYRIZA and none of the ANELs have been written on the list of speakers, a dramatic sign of fatigue! Now we're going to the bill. As always in about five, the government has submitted the prerequisites as a matter of urgency, namely, the arrangements known for the long time to collect the EUR 2.8 billion subscribing, in order to vote for an exception and without much noise, if the citizens do not understand what a proud negotiation will mean. These gossips only come up for hicks and nothing else. You're supposed to be late to negotiate better terms. The best terms proved to be a disaster for everyone, while the time lost completely hit the Greek economy. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, while reading what the bill you will be willing to vote on in a few minutes, we see that it has other verbals this time, such as the use of the word "adjustment" to increase insurance contributions, "reconstruct" for the purchase of electricity, "transfer" shares for the CECO, etc. But you are no longer in the unconscious times of the opposition, when you have done everything to cancel or discourage investments, when you have been setting up plays in every public business, characterising the privatisation of national crime. I don't suppose you feel like criminals today. Here's the fake words. "If they think they can sell, as if they were a chip of their grandfather, the OPAP, the EYDAP, the PPC, they are wrong." He saw Alexis Tsipras. As magically the proud negotiation and the third inappropriate memorandum you charged them all to your illusions and neither a cat nor damage. So you recommended the famous superstition. How and why, we have already exhausted them in the debate on the plan in question. You had a good deal of it in the new company EKDAP, EKATH, "ATIO MERO S.A.", ELVO and PPC, but you withdrew them claiming that you will renegotiate. Good negotiation, since today you are transferring all the shares of EYDAP, EYATH, the "CITIAN INFRASTRUCTURES S.A.", the "ATITIC MERO S.A.", ELVO, PPC. And what do you tell the world today with an excess of hypocrisy? "It is not what you think, we do not grant national property and we continue to fight privatisation." However, we recognize that you have negotiated hard and succeeded in taking care of relatives there too. That was your great agony, that and feminism against Tsakalotus. I wish the same sensitivity for women had for women journalists. The case of NSAH is another sign of populism and demagogy. You will remember the wonderful referendums you said the people would prevent water from being privatised. "Above our body will privatize the water," said Mr. Tsipras. I will not accept making a pun with the word 'corps'. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Anna Karamanlis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Evidently, you also include this and everything you put at the supreme store in the concessions you make on the road to socialism, as Mr Baltas said, or to Golgotha, as Mr Spirtzis said, since only Jesus Christ can be interested in buying these TENs. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy consistently supports the privatisation policy. You saw it happen with PPA and regional airports. But it cannot happen with the unconditional tradition of national wealth. The same logic of conscientiousness has been followed by the young scientists, who are taking within four months the discount they had in contributions. How will these people plan their professional lives with Mr. Katrugalos's "speakings"? The same applies to owners of small tourist accommodation in the Greek region and to regions of less than two thousand inhabitants. We're talking about small and medium-sized businessmen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u610	Mrs Karamanlis, time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u611	And I ask SYRIZA's colleagues who are being cut, why do they care about the so-called island policy: why didn't you seek a small exception for the small islands, the Leipzig, the Psaras and Strates? What does Mr. Kammenos say about this? Will she vote for them? You are invited to face and politically manage the irreversible reality that you have created since January 2015. You charged the Greeks with an unbearable burden. You sacrificed everything for power. This is your only intransigent red line. The citizens have understood all this and are already turning your back. In the next election, they'll show you the way out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u612	Mr. Sakis Vardalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u613	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fights and controversies that we have seen today on secondary issues between parties which agree with privatisations, despite any forms of privatization, which, in essence, are in agreement with the opening-up of the energy market, which are in line with the policy of strengthening the large capital to bring about the rich growth of the economy, despite the differences between them for the mixture, is, in our opinion, part of the general propaganda attack, which aims to detract from the tolerance of workers and the populace in the applied anti-grasss policy. That is the aim of the proposals for better management, new persons, agreements of truth, transparency and fair or participatory development. What do you say to the people? You say: 'The difficult things are ahead of us, we are struggling with it, but growth is coming.' So what is more dangerous at this time for the people is to show tolerance to this anti-popular policy, waiting for the light to see the true at the bottom of the tunnel. That is why the workers and the people now have to put their own seal on developments, not to tolerate the implementation of this anti-grassroots policy anymore, to organise, fight against the main opponent, which is the action of capital to ensure its profitability and their political representatives, by strengthening the JRC everywhere. In my short time I would like to focus particularly on the inclusion of ELVO in the excess. First of all, you have argued in all tons that it is not a privatization that has so far been the case. What exactly does it mean to you both the special speaker and the parliamentary representative of the party, but you do not listen. But let us see what such a claim means in the case of ELVO. Integrate ELVO into the excess, and indeed explicitly mention that the accession process does not run counter to the completion of the special liquidation process. She's going to go on unnecessarily. Why don't you stop, Mr. Minister, the special liquidation initiated by the former Government of New Democracy - PASOK? You don't stop her because you have the exact same goal. And the aim is to clarify from the company which parts can be profitable, what the investor's interest will be privatised and the others will be closed down, with the result - even if the lock is not avoided - that ELVO will shrink. You could, if you would like, give an immediate solution to the economic and productive deadlock of ELVO. You could, for example, assign construction and reconstruction programmes, military, fire-fighting programmes, local government agencies, public transport agencies. But you don't. There are several scenarios and in all cases, but in all cases the depth shows privatization, shrinking, even, in the worst case, a lock in ELVO. Employees have experience of the previous attempt to privatize. The Mytilian with 47.5% took management for several years. He earned his profits and workers at the same time were three hundred forty of the thousands of two hundred, wages cut, a number of employment rights were removed. These were the profits for workers from privatisation. Why has ELVO’s activity been reduced? No, of course, because its importance has been reduced, not because its productive capacities and functions have not been necessary for the workers and the popular layers of our country, but because this has served the local and foreign monopolies. ELVO's vehicle production units are strategic units, which can prove to be a valuable tool in the implementation of the planned economic and social development programmes, but focusing on meeting the current needs of the people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A solution to the benefit of the people exists - I conclude, Mr President - only if such a solution is in conflict with the European Union and NATO, is in conflict with the development path that you all support. The developments so far have shown that the only solution is the single defence entity and the integration of ELVO into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u614	So do we. Mr. Cavalella has the floor. Come on, Mr. Cavadela, in Step. You're talking on the cell phone. [[Laughing - applause from the New Democracy Wing]] Is the conversation over?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u615	You badly interrupted my colleague on the phone!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u616	You haven't spoken at all!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u617	Are you done? So fast?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u618	You are very authoritarian, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u619	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u620	Anyway, we're on our way. You eat me the minutes and the minutes. I remember, gentlemen of the SYRIZA - I was watching you from television at that time - when the New Democracy - PASOK - brought bills in accordance with the urgency or urgency procedure, then rolled the benches. You accused them of coup d'états and not to say exactly what you surnamed them. It's the next day. Now it's probably all perfectly substantiated. You brought us, for the Greek people to see this multi-page draft law, to study it in two or three days. Who could be so informed in two or three days? I guess no one. Your people may not understand or do that they do not understand what is happening, but I do not believe that the most serious break has occurred today between you and ANELs, because I see here today sixty-six speakers from all parties, but there is not even one of the ANELs. None of the ANELs went up to support this bill. Apparently, that's something. So you bring them quickly - quickly the bills - weekends, holidays, etc. - so that your MPs do not have time to understand exactly what they will vote and perhaps the 'both-kananas' do not get news and have many days of opposition. Some of you in the hallways tell us that you are sad to vote for these anti-grass laws, that you are reluctantly voting for them. We understand that because, of course, neither of you - nor Mr Tsipras - would want to drink from this glass. For example, Mr Baltas spoke about the temporary defeat of the socialist vision. So if you're dragging around without your will, why don't you give up on these actions? Even better, why don't you seek a new governmental pattern, wider foot, to share responsibilities accordingly, if some of them in here share these responsibilities? It's very difficult to implement something you don't believe. It's an unfair and cruel bill. For example, in the question of social security, you ask farmers to pay increases of about 7% -6.95% is - two years earlier. Remove a provision for the payment of reduced health care contributions for the first five years of the members of the Single Insurance Fund. This is a fair provision, a help, a tonic injection for young people trying to stand on their feet. You are, in other words, abolishing laws that you have passed four months ago. Then you told us that the laws you brought us here are very well studied. Mr. Katrugalos is also very well studied. You remove articles today and tell us how well you are doing now that you have abolished laws that you had passed a few months ago. They're following the accommodations. That's where you found the big taxmen, the very rich, to tax them properly. It's not just Mykonos and Santorini. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Now my time is up. I have a lot to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u621	Mr. Cavadela, continue the conversation without stumbling.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u622	It's over. I see they're yelling down. Thanks for listening. I reserve to have it ready for next contact. Hello.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u623	Thank you, too. Mr Stavros Arachovitis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u624	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have proved in practice that our main concern throughout the process of reforming the insurance system, which the Greek people are well aware of, who reached the dramatic point of the collapse, to the limits of the collapse, was to protect farmers, young professionals and the economically weaker. The changes which are currently being introduced and which concern the farmers in our country are two kinds. A change is to the level of health care contributions. In particular, for farmers, in accordance with Article 42(4), in case (b) of the Insurance Act, a gradual adjustment was provided for farmers in our country for all the insurance contributions by 2022, as we were committed during the agricultural movement. Today, for only a small part of these contributions, which concern health care only, the bill we are discussing provides for the immediate adaptation rather than the gradual, as it had been voted on. For contributions, therefore, the gradual convergence provided that the rate was 4,73% of income from 1-1-2017 to 31-12-2017, 5,84% from 1-1-2018 to 31-12-2018 and an equation to 6,95% from 1-1-2019 and beyond. The difference introduced by this Legislation concerns that for 2017 this discount is repealed. For 2017, therefore, the burden will be 2.22%, which is EUR 9.10 a month. Especially for 2018, the second year, the difference is only 1,11%, i.e. 4,5 euros a month. This is because the contributions for farmers are calculated on the lowest basis of the calculation, namely, the EUR 410 monthly income rather than the EUR 586. This is the difference in burden, and that is the reality, gentlemen, that the large part of the pension contributions remains in a gradual transition, as we have committed ourselves and as we have legislated in insurance law. The second point, which has also been made a great deal of talk, is that of the insurance of the main-professional farmers, who, at the same time, operate tourist accommodation from six to ten rooms. This is where we need to highlight two things. Firstly, as far as taxation is concerned, the income from the operation of the accommodation is considered to be agricultural income and is taxed as such. In other words, for 2017 there will be duty-free, that is, tax-free deductions, and everything else that is foreseen for the main-professional farmers. Secondly, what needs to be clarified, if necessary by a ministerial decision, is the case that someone in this category has a higher income than agricultural production and not accommodation. Finally, I would like to emphasise something, so that you do not try to create confusion, not to try to give the world the impression that the fund is the same as the WIDD. The HICP is a coup d'état, which has a specific revenue target for the next three years. The fund is intended to make use of the assets held in it. It may be in the mind of some as the only method of recovery to be the sale. But that doesn't apply to us. Besides, this is the important thing, the sale or the way in which it is used for an asset of the public, whether it is in the fund or not, it has to do with each other's political will. For us there is a series of ways of making use of them, so that the CECE is not really the cause of rhetoric, as it has so far been, but that they are profit-making places, both for society and for workers on the one hand and for the economy on the other. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. As you know well, especially for water, which has been a great debate over the last few days, there is a decision of the Council of State, which protects against any future intentions to privatise any governments. This has become even clearer with the amendment which has come today and is reminiscent of the framework that exists. So, in order to know what the political perspective is and what the will of everyone is to restore reality. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u625	Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u626	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the five minutes at my disposal I decided to talk to you about Marx, not your favourite philosopher, but the actor of Grucho Marx, who said: 'These are my views, if you do not like me, I have others.' That is your doctrine, and that is why you are good Marxists. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I think I can easily show it. First of all, in this bill we have provisions that cancel previous provisions, which you have had a great deal of pleasure last May in relation to young professionals and tourist accommodations. These provisions you have advertised. The Minister came out and said the best. You said that this is why the insurance bill deserves to be passed. And today you come and dismantle them very easily, because you have other opinions. Dr. Grucho Marx. But I'm going further. I come to the privatizations and the Prime Minister. I have here in front of me of a press conference by Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras in the aftermath of "absolute" period, in September 2015 in Thessaloniki -7 September - where, by listing the reasons why SYRIZA should be voted on and not the New Democracy says "we managed from the twenty-two to sell assets of the Greek State that was in the TIAD, to have only nine". I, for a while to distrust the Prime Minister - you will forgive me - have turned to the painting of HIDE, which I shall submit. The latest version is April 2016, several months after the Prime Minister's statements. Ladies and gentlemen, although the Prime Minister said that he has already done so and is only nine assets, I find nineteen. If you're in doubt, please check the board of the HICP, let's see who's telling the truth, the Prime Minister or I. [[At this point the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I keep going. After having kept all the assets of the GOD, then on a nice day of May you passed Law4389, where one of the nine assets - which was not nine, but nine - put about 80% of the public property. You excluded the forests, the beaches and the monuments. That's what this is about. Everything else went into the superstition. But you're telling us - be careful! - that this fund isn't like the bad past fund. It is a good fund, because here we will have no privatisations, we will not have concessions. I, again somewhat mistrust you, went to the law and found Article 201, which, in paragraph 2, refers to the means to be used, says "private property" and in paragraph 3, says "delegation of their right to use or exploit them or the delegation of their management" etc. I mean, cologne, concession contracts. In other words, codgers, what happened at Greek, regional airports, 'COSCO', from us, the three-suckers, and you then came and adopted them. So who are you kidding? Or privatization is or concessions. That's what this is! If you doubt me, I file the Minutes and the law to see what you're voting on. Because you obviously have some kind of political amnesia. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned law, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I'm going further.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u627	Are you following the conversation? We are talking about proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u628	I know you're disturbed, Minister, but you'll be more disturbed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u629	We're gonna have a dialogue...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u630	So I move on to my remarks. You say you're making use of it and it's a famous fund. Since this is a famous fund, ladies and gentlemen, why are these six TECs that you are now including, have you not included them since May? Why did you leave them unprotected and prevent them from being exploited earlier in this amazing fund that you're doing? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I come to a more specific question, which I would like the Minister for Defence to be here to answer. You put ELVO on and use it. But, S.A.B., during the leaks, you fought and excluded it. Well, LAPD, why did you exclude her? Is EAB going to be untapped? Should you think about it and include it even at the last minute? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to go any further.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u631	And you can't do that, Mr. Hatzidakis. Your time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u632	I'm closing, Mr. President. And yesterday I told you that I really would like to hear your private conversations, to know what you say about these issues in yourself. But if I came to a conclusion, it would be an illusion of Kazantzakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u633	Will you say it again?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u634	Let me tell you what's going on with you. You don't believe anything. The Greeks hope nothing with you. But, luckily, soon we'll be free from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u635	And we've heard that before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u636	Mr President, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u637	Here, Mr. Chakaloto, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u638	Mr. Hatzidakis, listen to me. You come to committee and ask me a question. What does it mean to us that liquidity will be made through privatisation and other means? I answer you to the committee, I answer you to the House. Can you be kind enough to answer what I told you? I have had a whole debate about what use it means, I have given full examples, five examples, you do not say and say before. Do you want there to be a dialogue in this House? Do you have the guts? Do you have any ideas about entrepreneurship? Or do you just want to sell them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u639	It is not your reason that the texts are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u640	And you're finally gonna answer me. Is NYPD safe in your hands? We expect a Neo-Democrat, one, to tell us that we will not privatise them. One day now and we're not getting an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u641	Ladies and gentlemen, it is declared abundant...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u642	Mr President, I would like to reply to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u643	What do you want to tell us, Mr. Hatzidakis? You just got off the Step. What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u644	No, he wants to tell us about the NSA and the NSA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u645	Tell us about the water.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u646	Mr President, I would like to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u647	Mr. Hatzidakis, please, what do you want to say? [[Noise in the Chamber]] What are you yelling at? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u648	Minister, I did something very simple. I have read the relevant articles of the law, I have tabled the law in the Minutes, which speaks of privatisation and concession contracts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u649	Did you ask me a question? I've answered your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u650	Are you questioning the text of the law you voted on?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u651	To have dialogue, to discuss, to make suggestions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u652	First, Minister, I know you're in a difficult position, but it's not my fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u653	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u654	You're trying to hide an elephant in a locker and this elephant doesn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u655	Let's talk, make suggestions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u656	All right, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u657	I shall conclude, Mr President. I will say: the Minister is proud to say that if he is the Minister, he will not privatise HSY and HSH. First of all, I don't know how long Mr. Tsipras will still be Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u658	You say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u659	Is that why you asked for the floor now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u660	But, in any case, what I want to say in conclusion is this. What is the value of Mr Tsakalotou's statement, the value of Mr Tsipras's statement, since we know that from what people say we must believe the opposite. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u661	Yeah, good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u662	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u663	Please, wait a minute. Do not give interactive time to your intervention, because you are causing an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u664	No, no, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u665	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u666	I would like to thank Mr Hatzidakis from my heart because he has no answer to what 'other means' and he has no answer whether the New Democracy will continue with privatisations and will not use the law for what we have learned and loved them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u667	The texts are what they're writing!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u668	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle and the articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is adjourned: 'Urgent arrangements of the Ministries of Finance, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Social Security and Social Solidarity for the implementation of the Agreement on budgetary objectives and structural reforms and other provisions'. Articles 1 and 2 of the draft law have been applied for a roll-call vote by Members of the New Democracy whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u669	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 514a]] [[To enter page 515a]] Mr. Dendias Nikolaos. Here you go. Mrs. Karamanlis Anna. Here. Mr. Metarakis Panagiotis. Here you go. Mr. Bukouros Christos. Here you go. Mr. Economou Vasiliou. Here you go. Mrs. Antoniou Maria. Here. Mr. Panagiotopoulos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Kelles Christos. Here you go. Mr. Andrian John. Here you go. Mrs. Kerameo Nike. Here. Mr. Kyriazidis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Skrekas Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Buras Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Stavros Christos. Here you go. Mr. Stamatis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Stylos George. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. On the principle and on Articles 1 and 2 of the draft law, a request has been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, whose text is as follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u670	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Michaeliakos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Aivatidis John. Here you go. Mrs. Vlachos Salvation. Here. Mr. Germenis George. Here you go. Mr. Gregos Antonios. Here you go. Mrs. Zaroulia Helen. Here. Mr. Ilioopoulos Panagiotis. Here you go. Mr. Caracos Evangelos. Here you go. Mr. Cassidy Elias. Here you go. Mr. Kouzilos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Koukoutsis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. John Rabbit. Here you go. Mr. Michos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Barbarousis Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Panayotaros Elias. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. Also, in principle and on the same articles, 1 and 2 of the draft law has been applied for a roll-call vote by Members of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMARs, whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u671	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mrs. Genuine Lights. Here. Mr. Arvanitides Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Venizelos Evangelos. Here you go. Mr. Theocharopoulos Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Kegeroglu Vasiliou. Here you go. Mrs. Kefalidou Hara. Here. Mr. Koutsoukos John. Here you go. Mr. Kremastinos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Constantinople Odysseus. Here you go. Mr. Constantopoulos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Loverdos Andreas. Here you go. Mr. Maniotis John. Here you go. Mr. Papatheodoros Theodore. Here you go. Mr. Scandalidis Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Jelephus Michael. Here you go. Mrs. Christophilopoulou. Here. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. On the principle and on Articles 1 and 2 of the draft law, Members of the Communist Party of Greece have applied for a roll-call vote, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u672	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Koutsoubas Dimitrios. Here you go. Mrs. Papapaiga Alexandra. Here. Mr. Bardale Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Delis John. Here you go. Mr. Giokas John. Here you go. Mrs. Canelle Liana. Here. Mr. Karathanasopoulos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Katsotis Christos. Here you go. Mr. Lambroulis George. Here you go. Mrs. Manolaku Diamond. Here. Mr. Steerios Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Moraitis Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Paphis Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Synthrates Emmanuel. Here you go. Mr. Tassos Stavros. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u673	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Do you accept the votes provided for in the Rules of Procedure in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u674	The House has agreed. There will therefore be a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 1 and 2 of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Urgent arrangements of the Ministries of Finance, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity for the implementation of the Agreement on budgetary objectives and structural reforms and other provisions’. Receiving the principle and Articles 1 and 2 of the bill say ‘NEI’. The non-accepting authorities and Articles 1 and 2 of the bill say ‘OH’. The voters say 'PARON'. Mrs Anastasia Gara is on the list by SYRIZA and Mr.Ioannis Kefaliannis from New Democracy. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau, in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, in which they state their vote on the principle and on the articles of the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u675	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u676	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that my fellow Members, Mr Antonis Samaras, Mr Theocharis, Mr Ioannis Tragakis and Mr Seltsas Konstantinos, have not been present in today's roll-call vote and are giving us their vote. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u677	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] Until the count is completed, we proceed to vote on the rest of the articles and amendments of the bill. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u678	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u679	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u680	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u681	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u682	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u683	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u684	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u685	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u686	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u687	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u688	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u689	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u690	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u691	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u692	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u693	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u694	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u695	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u696	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u697	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u698	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u699	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u700	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u701	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u702	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u703	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u704	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u705	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u706	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u707	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u708	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u709	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u710	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u711	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u712	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u713	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u714	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u715	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u716	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u717	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u718	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u719	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u720	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u721	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u722	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u723	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u724	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u725	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u726	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u727	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u728	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u729	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u730	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u731	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u732	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u733	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u734	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u735	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u736	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u737	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u738	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u739	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u740	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u741	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u742	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u743	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u744	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u745	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u747	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u748	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u749	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u750	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u751	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u752	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u753	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u754	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u755	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u756	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u757	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u758	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u759	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u760	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u761	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u762	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u763	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u764	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u765	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u766	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u767	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u768	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u769	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u770	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u771	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u772	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u773	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u774	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u775	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u776	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u777	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u778	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u779	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u780	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u781	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u782	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u783	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u784	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u785	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u786	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u787	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u788	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u789	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u790	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u791	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u792	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u793	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u794	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u795	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u796	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u797	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u798	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u799	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u800	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u801	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u802	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u803	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u804	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u805	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u806	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u807	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u808	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u809	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u810	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u811	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u812	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 18 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u813	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u814	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u815	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u816	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u817	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u818	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u819	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u820	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u821	Article 18 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u822	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u823	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u824	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u825	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u826	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u827	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u828	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u829	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u830	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 686 and a special number 119 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u831	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u832	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u833	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u834	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u835	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u836	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u837	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u838	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u839	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 686 and a special 119 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u840	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 293 Members voted. In favour of the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against the background of the draft law, i.e. 'OH', 141 Members voted. No one voted. The draft law of the Ministry of Finance was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. In favour of Rule 1, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Pursuant to Rule 1 of the Rules of Procedure, 141 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. In favour of Rule 2, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Under Rule 2, i.e. 'NO', 141 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u841	We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u842	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u843	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u844	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u845	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u846	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u847	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u848	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u849	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u850	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: "Urgent arrangements of the Ministries of Finance, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure, Transport and Work, Social Security and Social Solidarity for the implementation of the Financial Objectives and Structural Reform Agreement and other provisions" was accepted by a majority in principle and on the articles. We are entering the vote of the bill as a whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u851	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u852	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u853	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u854	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u855	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u856	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u857	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u858	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u859	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Urgent arrangements of the Ministries of Finance, the Environment and Energy, Infrastructure, Transport and Work, Social Security and Social Solidarity for the implementation of the Financial Objectives and Structural Reform Agreement and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in principle, of the articles, of the amendment and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u860	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u861	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-27-S1-commons.u862	With the consent of the House at 21.40 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, 28 September 2016 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a debate on a pre-dated order, in accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, at the initiative of the Chief of Officerial Representation and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, at the level of party leaders, on education.
