ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Thursday 26 May 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 892/23-5-2016 by MP Dodecanese of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ilia Kamaterou to the Minister of Finance about the increase in starting prices for beaches concessions in Kos. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 88/21-5-2016 of the Greek Minister for Home Affairs of the Greek Republic, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, on the living conditions of refugees and migrants under the age of 88/21-5. 3. The Question No 886/20-5-2016 by F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance on the bankruptcy of the country and the financial diversion. 4. The Question No 894/23-5-2016 by Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Ministers for Education, Research and Religious Affairs and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the problems of students in public and private IEK. 5. Under No 887/20-5-2016, a topical question by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the delay in the adoption of a Joint Ministerial Decision, in accordance with the provisions of the paragraph. 11 of Article 42 of Law 4280/2014 (VAT 1559A), thus causing serious problems for farmers who have the use of brown parcels or for those wishing to exercise the relevant right. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 889/21-5-2016 by the Deputy Minister of Attica of New Democracy Mr Mavroudi Voridis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the financing of the Foundation for the Children of Pammarstas. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the timetable for payment of direct payments to farmers who objected or are in the process of checks. 3. The Question No 895/23-5-2016 by Mr. Attica of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights concerning the criminalisation and repression of agricultural movements. 4. The question by No. 861/13-5-2016 was raised by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the situation in the Congregation of Congregation of Congregation of Music. 5. The Question No 869/16-5-2016 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Health on the problems of the health structures of Kefalonia and Ithaca. 6. The question, under number 862/13-5-2016, by MP B' Athens of the Association of Centres Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the unjustified delay in the recognition of professional qualifications of engineers TEI due to the failure to adopt the regulatory presidential decrees provided for. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance about the problem of not conducting tests for obtaining a driving licence. 8. The timely question by MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Constantine Steerios to the Minister of Health about the need to prevent, treat and support the Volos cancer patients. 9. Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of Health, Question No 545/15-2-2016 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn to the Minister of Health, on the problems of operation in the EKAB. 10. The question by No 876/16-5-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance on the schedule for payment of late public debts. 11. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance about the protection of citizens from excessive bank charges. 12. The Question No 858/12-5-2016 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance about the collapse of the economy of the Dodecanese. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The Question No 852/10-5-2016 by MP Halkidiki of New Democracy Mr Georgios Vayonas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the "flying fallen of the land of the 40s and the current immoral demand of the Albanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs". 14. Observed. The Question No 881/17-5-2016 by Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Rural Development and Food on the payment of compensation to tree farmers in Larissa for their production destroyed by a recent glacier. 15. Under number 873/16-5-2016, a topical question by MP Evros of New Democracy Mr Anastasios Prussias Prussias to the Minister for Rural Development and Food regarding the timely spraying of mosquitoes. 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The question by No. 882/17-5-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr.Ioannis Delis, to the Ministers for Rural Development and Food, and of the Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the payment of compensation to farmers from the Municipality of Soufli of the Regional Unit of Evros, due to the disasters in natural and animal capital caused by the floods of 2015. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKGROKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKOKSKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOVOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOVOGANS (GANSKOVOVOGANS 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 2808/193/1-2-2016 question and application for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the case of small Melina in Venizelos Hospital of Heraklion. I also have the honour to inform the House that Mrs Vassilis Catrivanou, by letter to the President of Parliament, has resigned from the post. The letter of resignation of my colleague to the President of Parliament will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u2	Before entering the agenda, we will take the oath of Mr Georgios Kyritsis to replace Mrs Vassilis Katrivanos who resigned. Mr Georgios Kyristis is invited to come and give the oath. [[Mr George Kyritsis, Member of the European Parliament, comes to this point and gives the following political oath:]] “I assure my honor and conscience that I will be faithful in my homeland and democratic city, I will obey the Constitution and the laws, and I will be conscientiously fulfilling my duties”
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u3	Worthful, worthy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u4	Congratulations, Mr. Kritsis. Good luck and good courage!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Definition of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the Mutual Establishment of Cultural Centres". The draft law was adopted by a majority vote in the Standing Committee and is brought to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. Would a colleague want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u6	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u7	Before I give you the floor, I would like to inform you that a ministerial and parliamentary amendment has been tabled, Nos 454/9 and 455/10 respectively. I propose to the Ministerial Amendment that the rapporteurs and special speakers be placed and, if necessary, that the Parliamentary Representatives be given five minutes each. Mr Gregos from the Golden Dawn has the floor, as his party has reservations about the ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to the ratification of the agreement with China, on the establishment of cultural centres in the two countries, I would like to say that in time our country has maintained channels of communication with China in bilateral and transnational relations, either on the basis of cooperation protocols and agreements or through business cooperation. China has been a world trade dominant over the past twenty years and it was clear that Greece would also be a country - an objective for China's efforts to promote and intensify its business presence in Europe, as we said in the committee. In order to implement its strategic planning and the new silk road, Greece has tried to ensure the exit to the Mediterranean markets, and Greece has become an instrument in this China plan to achieve its objectives. If this is in the interest of the Greek people and the economy, we have no objection. Of course, the COSCO investment serves some private interests and it is doubtless the profit we will have from them. The ratification comes in order to ensure good relations between the two countries, particularly at cultural level. I repeat that we are talking about two countries with a huge culture. Our objections mainly concern China's position on the issue of the recognition of Skopje under the name 'Macedonia', since, as you know, it is a member of the UN Security Council. We could take advantage of this fact of the establishment of this cultural centre and the resonance it will have because of its visit, in order to highlight and demonstrate the culture of ancient Macedonians in the millions of Chinese visitors. And we're talking about thousands and millions of visitors. Also, in an enlarged context - which would be completely acceptable to us - the Beijing People's Assembly could have banned its members from attending the Skopje events, even in cultural, if they ever exist. China, with its enormous history and culture, and I was a superpower, as I said in the committee, resisted "gangrina" of multiculturalism and maintained its cultural heritage, contrary to us. We also have objections to procedural matters relating in particular to where the cultural centre will become, the people with whom it will be addressed, the timetable and the criteria, as well as to economic issues, such as opening up bank accounts, which we are talking about at the moment when the capital control regime is still in place. At the same time, we have objections to issues relating to VAT in various kinds, construction licences and customs controls. Positive evidence is that these institutions will not be involved in speculative activities, that libraries and workshops will be created and they will be characterized as official cultural centres. We would, of course, prefer that this cultural centre of China should be held somewhere in Macedonia because of what I have mentioned above. We had also told the committee that a number of amendments would come to one more ratification. Unfortunately, we have been confirmed once again. As far as ratification is concerned, we shall vote 'at present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Grego from Golden Dawn. I shall now give the floor to the Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism, Mr George Stathakis, in order to develop the amendment which he has tabled to us. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u10	It is the amendment with a general number 454 and a special number 9. The proposed provision reintroduces the entry into force of the provisions of Part II of Law 4281/2014 on the rules for the drawing up of public works, supply and service contracts. It shall be transferred for 1 July. Until then, the new institutional framework for public procurement will have been tabled and adopted, which replaces most of the provisions of Law 4281/2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u11	Does any of the rapporteurs and speakers want to place themselves on the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u12	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u13	Here, Mrs. Kerameau, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, on a point of order - and now and the President of Parliament - I would like to say that this is the most important time that a ministerial amendment is coming under the procedure laid down in Article 108. As we all know, Article 108 provides for a procedure without debate. We have noted this many times, it is unacceptable to have ministerial amendments in the context of a debate in this House, which does not actually provide for a debate and, therefore, does not have the opportunity to place Members. First of all, I think that we will need a legislative improvement as a minimum, Mr Ministers, because you should add to the title of your law 'and other provisions', otherwise the amendment cannot be introduced. Now, on the substance of the amendment, Minister, we understand why you are proposing the amendment. But - and I say it for this House - it is the fifth extension. Remind the extensions: The first extension was until December 31, 2015. The second extension was until 29 February 2016. The third extension was until 29 April 2016. And the fourth extension was until 31 May 2016. Every time the Minister has said that a new institutional framework for public procurement is to be tabled immediately. In fact, in the extension you requested in December of January, you said explicitly, Minister, in your explanatory statement - and I read from there - that 'the new institutional framework for public procurement is going to enter into force by the end of January 2016'. We're at the end of May. He hasn't been filed yet. We believe that this again is a declaratory example of the government's lack of planning. I would also like to address Mr Loverdos' amendment, which tabled a parliamentary amendment. I would like to stress that the New Democracy is in line with this amendment, which deals with the properties of Faliro - and I imagine it will speak to us itself about it - which, by amendment, was 'done by night' by the government for twenty years to the Ministry of Justice, instead of making available for the development of the coastal front of this most attractive part of southern Athens. The New Democracy is in line with this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u15	Is there any other of the rapporteurs who wants to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u16	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Theocharopoulos from the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, I too should like to stress that the discussion of ministerial amendments to sanctions is something that the Conference of Presidents should address in order to resolve this issue. But let me say that last time a list of speakers had been opened. Mr President, I would therefore ask that a list of speakers be opened, as was the case last time. It was Mrs Christodoulopoulos who was in your position and we opened a list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u19	Good. We can open a list of speakers, if necessary, if there is interest. Why not? I have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u20	Thank you. Let me come to the point of the matter now. This is indeed another extension, Minister, and I think that this time there must be a legislative framework. You've been tied up now as before. Now, on the basis of developments, I hope that we do not need another extension, a fifth extension, and that this process is completed, so that we have a modern framework in relation to public procurement. However, I would like to raise a specific point, the issue with regard to the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority. And I want some answers to this issue. The Communication from the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority, in February, stated that the practice of passing only two of the ten legislations by the independent authority is problematic for direct awards by the Government. The ongoing infringement of Article 3 of Law 4013/2011 on non-information in amendments, Ministerial Decisions, Circulars and Presidential Decrees affects legality, giving good arguments for complaints in contests and contracts. The Single Independent Public Procurement Authority said: ‘There are two problems: Firstly, it is not lawful and, secondly, there is a problem for complaints to be made later on about public procurement by European institutions’. It expressed strong opposition to the practice of tabling amendments, which set derogations from open and transparent procedures, provided for by Union and national public procurement law. And to remember the occasion that took place, I would say that it was the amendment of the Minister of National Defence, Mr Kammenos, who had brought, by way of derogation, all the provisions of the competition in relation to the organisation of hot spots. It follows that Article 3(2) of Law 4013/2011, according to which the independent authority is to deliver an opinion on the legality of any provision of a draft law or regulation relating to public procurement, and to participate in the legislative committees and even the competent institutions must take into account the positions of the authority. And to prevent you, I would like to say that this process was introduced in 2011. It was an incision. At least we think so. We must have the opinion of the independent authorities here so that there are no arbitrary practices. Of course there has been a development in this process in keeping with this issue. In 2014, according to my figures, about half of them had an opinion from the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority. And that was another improvement, to be even more of what is going on in an opinion and to reach the highest point. Where did we end up? From half of the time we arrived in 2014, in 2015 to be the two in ten, according to the elements of the President of the independent authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u21	But finish, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, you have not renewed my time. I've started in the third minute, so I still have one or two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u23	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u24	So, as far as this issue of urgency is concerned, there is, of course, almost always, but according to the former - and I will explain why - the chairman of the committee is invoked by the unforeseen fact, which the institution should prove at all times its absence or not its own fault. Two months later, on 25 April 2016 - I have here the resignation letter to you - the President of the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority resigned, following what he denounced in February.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u25	That's why he quit?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u26	I don't know. You tell us why he quit. I have the resignation letter, but it is not the reason. I only mention the fact, Mr Stathakis, that he resigned two months after the committee. While he had a five-year term, to give exactly the evidence, he resigned over two years. Have you made any decisions so that from now on we can defend the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority so that they pass through and do not have any arbitrary effect? Because what we see is that there should be amendments here, by way of derogation from the existing provisions, and that money should be given, so that there would be a waste of resources and often that there would be no proper control. So I think it is an important fact. Because today we are discussing this extension, which is essential to the functioning of the system - there is no doubt that you must commit yourself, definitively this time, that you will not bring another extension again and in June there will be a legislative framework. On this issue, we want to defend the independent authorities. We've told you too many times. We have called for 'consent'. For example, in the TV licence bill we asked for the PSE's assent, which was not accepted by the Minister of State. That is how we are calling here for the independence of the independent authorities to be defended. This must be done for public procurement. In the last year the exact opposite has been done and we would like an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u29	Minister, will you speak now or at the end?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u30	In the end, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we also agree that sanctions cannot - it has become a permanent practice - come with amendments which could come as a separate bill or a bill with the normal procedure. The fifth extension implies weakness and inability - with or without a question - to draw up an institutional framework for public procurement. Are some of them served by this parole? Because, in particular, over the last one and a half years, because of the refugee - illegal immigration - huge funds have fallen into the construction of hot spots, several times or in various other ways, the speed of which does not give the opportunity to have a check on the way in which this competition takes place. It's a very big hot spot business, so we can start saying things by their name. That was the big job of the last year and a half in our homeland. billions of euros were given. In a question of Golden Dawn, the Ministry responsible replied that illegal immigration had been spent in 2015 1.8 billion euros, either indirectly or in a direct way. After all, and the resignation made by the President of the Public Procurement Authority, Mr Rajkos, this is more likely to show that something is wrong, and to bring amendments to inappropriate sanctions, as you do, it shows that something must be suspicious and not clean. I imagine we will come back to this matter in the course of the debate. I would like to refer very quickly to the other amendment tabled by Mr Lovers. Once accepted, we will support it because it expresses the common sense of what must be done in this part of Attica in the coastal zone, where...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u33	Let's not get into another matter right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u34	As other Members of Parliament have mentioned,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u35	Right, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u36	...I shall refer very quickly to this, saying that we agree and when it comes to the debate we will be placed again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-four students and four teachers from the Municipal School of Honours of Corinth and the 73nd Municipal School of Athens. Also, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory of the Parliament, after having participated in the educational program "World Republic", fifteen students and students and an attendant of the 30th Municipal School of Peristeri. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We're moving on to Mr. Dannelly from the river. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. It is the fourth suspension of a 2014 law order requested by the Parliament. I think that, although the procedures must work, it is clear that something is wrong. All four suspensions, Minister, are on your own government. You should have settled this loose end, which is another vote which justifies the country's loss of all credibility to any third party. It is very difficult to vote in favour, although, of course, if the extension is not voted on, it cannot work because there is no such provision. I think the porcupines have now predicted various things, knowing that the usual procedure was to suspend and thus automatically put the previous situation into operation. Because that is not predictable, of course, there will be a problem. It is, however, extremely difficult to vote, because this procedure has now become a status. That is why we will abstain from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Mr Dimitris Kammenos, Member of the ANELs and the ANELs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, we, the Independent Greeks, will support the amendment. The reasons are good. From now on Greece will have to take forward and we will have to put rules in the game, both in public procurement and in relation to the government's contractual relations with other bodies. I would like to make another comment on hot spots and the Ministry of National Defence. I would like to inform Parliament and anyone who hears us that on the initiative and mandate given by the Greek Prime Minister to the Minister of National Defence and the Military Engineer, we have managed to make thousands of hot spots. So Greece managed to get out of the vortex of illegal immigrants who had entered all over Greece - we remember what happened - and the state did not have time to build infrastructure. The Engineering Army did it. We have received the credit from the European Union and the money has been disbursed. As far as the urgent procedure is concerned, I had tabled a question myself. Adequate explanation was given why the projects had to be given and the structures were soon built. Without these structures, we would not have housed, as we should, the unfortunate people who entered our country and we would have been accountable to the world community, not just ourselves, and let alone Europeans. That's what had to be done, and we've taken credit for it. And the European Parliament has congratulated the Greek Government on the speed and quality of delivery of works. And of course, there is no irregularity. If anyone thinks there's been an irregularity, let him tell us and bring the evidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Cammene. Mr Karras has the floor from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, I shall deal briefly only with the amendment. This fourth extension shows a lack of legislation possible at the end of the day. For, as explained in the report, 'we shall bring some bills'. I would therefore like to ask the Minister present, what were the reasons why, with the rise of the new SYRIZA Government - ANEL in power at the beginning of 2015, he suspended recent legislation on public procurement six months or eight months ago and, more generally, services and supplies? What are the reasons why they subsequently require the suspension of the application of these provisions? He says there's going to be a bill, but we don't know. But there is also a major question. Let me remind you, Mr President, how many times there have been amendments in the Chamber ten minutes or half an hour ago to vote for other unrelated bills, on the request of an undeniable need, often humanitarian ones. Recently I recall the amendment on the police that told us that there is no possibility of moving patrols or feeding the refugees and immigrants who are in Greece. We voted for them, but this cannot continue. I would like to hear, Mr President, whether there is an obligation on the Greek Government from the third memorandum to bring in new legislation on public procurement. If there is, he should have brought her, because obviously, this will also be a prerequisite for which we have a responsibility. Why am I saying that? Yesterday we had a very tough agreement for Greece. It's not the present. However, from the first news story, which I heard today, it seems that everyone accepts that it is a tough agreement that does not give outlets. I think, therefore, that the government should deal with situations, not by fugitives. On this we still consider it to be fugitive. After that, Mr President, we are voting against the amendment and I would like to add this because I understand the anguish of my colleague, Mr Loverdos, to abolish the provision which is 'unlawless' - if you would like, and within introductory terms, the word - and I mean the illegal and typical part of the legislature, when the amendment on the establishment or functioning of a public service by Members of Parliament, in this case the Court of Justice in the Kalithea coastal zone, in the absence of the Minister of Justice. I think that at some point the government, in spite of all the promises it has given, should abolish the amendment on the Falliro beach volleyyard and I think it is a simple excuse and avoid the statements made so far that it is going to be abolished. Do you want me to tell you something else and finish? They haven't found any room, Mr. President. As to what they say about the camp, this is used for military needs. How will they solve this with the Minister of Defence, who arrives to vote and the next day he says that he is committing himself when voting for a VAT arrangement on the islands? It comes the other day and says "we've been perpetrated". So, he's a criminal himself? So he's gonna commit court camps? I think, Mr President, that we must also stand up to these issues at some point and speak more seriously in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u43	Thank you. I would like to tell you how the procedure will proceed. Members will be placed, as I said at first, in a way, of course, because the rapporteurs are mainly speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u44	Not by way of derogation!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u45	Some colleagues. They're few. Colleagues will be placed on the amendment. We will then give Mr. Loverdos the floor to develop his question, so that the Minister can answer us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u46	To get Mr. Loverdos to the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u47	No, let me tell you. Mr Loverdos will be speaking about his amendment - that is what we are talking about - the Minister will answer whether or not he accepts the amendment, and we close it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u48	We should be able to place ourselves before that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u49	There is no procedure for setting up a parliamentary amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u50	There is no amendment to ratification!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u51	Please! Where a parliamentary amendment is tabled in general, as you know, or is accepted by the Minister. It is not possible to discuss the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, can we talk to the Members of Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Metarakis, please. We will give the floor to Mr Loverdos, after the speakers have been completed on the amendment we now have, to develop his amendment, to convince the Minister, the Minister will answer for one and the other and close. We move from now on, giving the floor to Mr. Metarakis, then to Mr. Charakopoulos, then to Mrs. Vaki. Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall be speaking on the amendments. The ministerial amendment is the fifth time that the government has requested a derogation from the new framework law on public procurement. There has been a lot of discussion in plenary about the need for our country to have a more transparent, more effective, more reliable programme and how to implement public procurement. The previous government has legislated. Probably, this government wanted to make some changes. But we have already reached eighteen months and yet you have not come to legislate. A few weeks ago, Mr President, in another ratification, we discussed the same provision of another Ministry that also requested the third or fourth derogation in its own competitions. I think that this situation should come to an end. Only laws that impose taxes can be prioritised and only those that increase recruitment in the public sector. Institutional laws must come, too, which help the functioning of the state and not eighteen months to have these issues. As regards Mr Loverdos' amendment, with Mr Langer. 4146/2013 the previous government legislated to create a special company, the company ‘Attractive Attica Front’. The aim was to get out of the EBRD and therefore outside the EBRD and therefore, except for any privatisation, the real estate of the Greek State in the Athenian Riviera. This new company collaborated with the municipalities, cooperated with the Region, and the aim was to create a master plan so that the entire Athenian Riviera region could benefit from the public interest. In the area opposite the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, the creation of an amazing park, which would be a lung for all of Attica, a lung that would also include light consumption, so that people could go there and light sports. There are the shipping clubs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u55	Since 2000.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u56	Legislation in 2013. The SYRIZA Government, in its first bill, in the humanitarian crisis bill, with a provision that not even SYRIZA MPs could understand how it was linked to the humanitarian crisis, abolished the company "Atlantic Coast Front", gave all the properties to the EBRD and, consequently, the law that we voted yesterday, gave all the assets of the Athenian Riviera to the new superstition. The previous government has therefore legislated a more balanced plan in cooperation with the municipalities and the region, which would include a unique green area. This government, the Left government, chooses to give it all to the supreme. Let us refer to the specific area for which this study has been completed in order to create this lung. They have already been given under previous law, the Olympic Real Estate Act, uses of sports and green land. By the law you passed you abolished the uses of land. Whether or not this area is finally becoming courts or has any other public use, the residential and spatial identity of the property was abolished. As a result, you have deprived of the property of the Greek State an asset of it. You are now coming without planning to create legal rooms in an area that needs a green area. This has happened, however, not with a draft government, but with a parliamentary amendment, which is clearly a non-parliamentary amendment. It's clearly written by the Ministry of Justice. This is another example of a misconception. Parliamentary amendments are under way many times, avoiding the General Accounting Office of the State, and they are clearly written by the Government. Since then, the opposition and many SYRIZA Members have said that this was a mistake. And there comes every time here an amendment, which we support, as our parliamentary representative Mr Keramea said, to solve the mistake that has been created. The government still has no place. Mr President, do you know what the worst is? Every time the relevant Minister comes in and says: 'I'm sorry, it's not my responsibility, I don't know'. I mean, in the penalty we have to bring the Minister of Justice. The Minister for Justice must come to the Chamber, because the PASOK has said that he will submit this amendment every time. What happens, that is, every time they say: 'We are not competent' - and I hope I do not have time for your speech - is not the solution to an issue which employs half the population of Greece living in Attica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Metarakis. Mr Harakopoulos, you will allow me to let Mr Loverdes, who has an urgent job to talk about the amendment, as we have said before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u58	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Loverdo, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. You can see that, as is the case, in the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, there is also a reference to the amendments, but also to the ratification of a legal text. So why am I tabling this amendment? First of all, it's not just me, it's all the parties in this House. Already in the previous draft law, the great one, which we voted on this weekend, the Centro Association, Potami, we, New Democracy, have tabled an amendment in which we say - and Mr Metarakis has helped me finally - that what was voted on a good Friday night with a proposal from 16 SYRIZA Members, of whom only one was from Attica and the others were from the other regions of the country and according to that area, with the cancellation of spatially of the Athens Regulatory Plan, can be made available for the establishment of courts hosting large trials, trials that bring together a large number of people. Then, when there was a discussion and politically the matter came up, the responsible Minister of Justice said he would change his design and that in cooperation with the Minister of National Defence he would seek space in Ruf, where the Minister would go and make an inspection of whether he was doing it to him. Mr Paradoxopoulos said: 'If I do not find room, I will insist.' Did he inspect? We don't know. Is the space good for him? We don't know. As Mr. Carras has said, there is a court of law. Is that what he's talking about? None of us know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u61	We don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u62	The MEP of the Independent Greeks, Mr. Kokalis, who tabled an amendment, was involved, thus mobilizing the Ministry of National Defence. That amendment was not tabled. There was no draft law to be filed. And that was in the air. Since then, we have said that in every draft law or ratification, the opposition or parties of it - now we could all be together, we are simply not, Mr President, but we will organise it - it will tell them that it does not believe them. As Mr Kammenos denounced yesterday on Sunday evening, since we do not have an intervention from the Government, we believe that at some point the House should accept it - a Minister should consult with Mr Kalogeros, tell him that the government is in agreement - and that we should end it. Otherwise, Mr President, we will be discussing, discussing, discussing and discussing without end. He says one citizen: 'Well, after the Justice Minister said he will find another place, why are you not convinced?' I repeat: Firstly, the Minister for Justice said that he is looking for suitable space, and if he does not, he will insist. Secondly, it has said that it is paradoxical that we Greeks only protest because in the center of our city or somewhere in our city there will be courts when the other countries consider the courts to be a jewel in their capitals. We think so, too. Isn't the Council of State in the center? Isn't the Martian ice downtown? I don't understand! Isn't the Court of Auditors downtown? Isn't this the Court of Appeal in the center? Sure. But we've thought about the beach differently. Whether there are delays or there are no delays, the uses have been seen otherwise. And we have said that it is a dream of five million people looking toward the sea and not looking inwards, to the mountains. Thirdly, Mr President, the change in this use is a change in regulation. If there is no amendment that abolishes that amendment since it has been the case, I cannot know, of products and of time, who with legal arguments will take advantage of the change in Athens' regulatory system in addition to one month already. So there is a need for immediate intervention - we do not have time - because, when a provision is in force that amends Athens' regulatory system, no one can know the legal consequences that are created and which a court can recognise. I would therefore ask the Government - I know that today it is not the Ministers responsible here - to give a mandate now that the question has been agreed by the Government to accept this amendment, which is generally supported, to end. This issue cannot be extended for an even longer period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr. Harakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u64	I should like to make a polite comment on the amendment, Mr President. In my own country, Thessaly, Mr President, for those who are faced with magnanimity and hostility, we are saying'my animals slowly'!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u65	Watch your mouth!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u66	Minister, this is the fifth time you have come to Parliament calling for an extension to the existing legislative framework for public procurement and procurement. How many more times do you have to come? Do you pledge that this is the last time you come to ask for an extension of the legislative framework? You're almost a year and a half in the country's governance. How much time do you need to shape the new institutional framework, which you claim needs?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u67	By January 2015, why you hadn't finished it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, I would also like to welcome the way in which the government is legislating, with a late-minute amendment from the Minister for Development, irrespective of the bill we are discussing on ratification, which is also two years behind. The Samara government negotiated the agreement and agreed with China the establishment of the two cultural centers, one in Athens and one in Beijing respectively. As of June 19, 2014, it is hereby validated to the National Representation. The way in which the government, by means of late-term amendments, at the last minute, has acted in unrelated bills and, last but not least, in the new 'hole' you have found, in Article 108; this process of sanctions, which does not give rise to the possibility of an enlarged debate, by way of derogation today, is to the honour of the Bureau accepting it - I do not think it honours all the way in which the executive is aware of how we legislate in the country. I would remind you, Mr President, that in the past the current government as opposition was breaking its clothes whenever the previous government brought a bill with urgent procedure under urgent procedure. And now it has become the norm to legislate by means of legislative acts, with urgent procedure, with 'blue' amendments. It's got to put an end to this. And I think that is also the responsibility of the Bureau. Also, it is not all week, on the day-to-day day basis, that plenary is actually failing, that there is no legislative work and no weekend - which the parliament is able to move to our region and listen to the problems of citizens' daily lives - to legislate through backward procedures, with fast track procedures. I think we should put an end to this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Harakopoulos. Before I give Mrs Vakis the floor, Minister Stathakis wants to say something. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u71	I would like to remind Mr Harakopoulos that the commitment to the Public Procurement Act was final in January 2015. We're talking about a Memorandum obligation of your own government. So when we went...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u72	You're doing better with the memorials, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u73	I'm sorry, wait a minute! So you had that obligation. So I invite you, since for two and a half years you had that obligation, to tell me what you had done for two and a half years. Because we, when we received the Ministry, found no law on public procurement. I would remind you, therefore, that this agreement was renewed in August. We made a commitment to a very large bill - the bill has five hundred articles - and to a process of discussion and consultation and participation by the Commission and the Independent Authority and dozens of bodies, which had the final date in January 2016. That's the process. You cannot give up on us that from August to January we started a process and completed it. Of course, he still has a number of problems and he has caused two, three months' delay, because it concerns too many ministries. In particular, it concerns three major ministries, the Ministry of Health, the Infrastructure and our Ministry. It's a huge bill. I repeat, for once, that it has five hundred articles. Then there was a second phase in order to solve the problems. But the New Democracy, which for two and a half years had been committed to it and gave us a white paper, goes far beyond all the expressions you used by the Thessalians.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u74	From the Minister's apology, Mr President, it is clear that in a month's time he will be in the same position, calling again for an extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u75	Well, Mr. Harakopoulou. That's a comment. Mrs Vaki has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say two things about Mr Loverdo's amendment. And of course, starting with the words of Mr Charakopoulos, let me take care of it and say 'My animals slowly'. So I too could say the same words'my animals late' and for this really spectacular and excellent work of the park in Faliro, which, with the bad amendment of the sixteen members of the SYRIZA, is now being granted to become the court palace. Since 2000, ladies and gentlemen, the emblems began and have been turned into a dump. Can I ask why, for so many years, this excellent work has not been done? Let me remind you that the SYRIZA government took over in January 2015. In any case, though, because this amendment was bad indeed and by wishing to reassure Mr Loverdos too, I would like to say that it will not apply. The regulation is expected to come and will be here soon. And the reason why he hasn't come is because some technical details are actually pending to settle and locate a place for the courts. I am sure the Minister will find him and will not be granted the buildings of Faliro and the area of Faliros for the use of the courts. It has been revoked and will not apply. The arrangement is expected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u77	We shall then vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u78	It's unnecessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u79	It's unnecessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u80	Then vote on the amendment! It's not a problem!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u81	We must then vote on the amendment to resolve the matter!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u82	A statement can't the government make?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u83	He's coming! The government will do it! Let me tell you! Let us not create easy impressions now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u84	Stay on the line!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u85	We should stick to the point, ladies and gentlemen. And I'm ending up with this. Mr. Stathakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Vaki will be finished and the Minister will give us his opinion on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u87	As far as the ministerial amendment is concerned, we obviously support it. The Minister has covered us. It is not possible to create a legal vacuum. Do we want there to be a legal vacuum in an institutional framework for public procurement? Obviously not. That is why this extension is being made to the suspension of the validity of Law 4281. And it is expected that the new institutional framework for public procurement, and especially today that the evaluation has been closed, and the government should have said what it has said about development, translated into projects, jobs, but a new institutional framework with principles of publicity, transparency, sound control and the management of public works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. Mr Psarianos has asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Fisherian, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. I listened carefully to the Minister. On the substance of the amendment we are debating - as Mr Dannelis said - we will not speak. We will not talk about this amendment at all. It has to be done. He's got to move on. It should have been done for a year and a half. Of course, the previous governments did not do what they had to do in their time, and so this government must do much worse than it should have done from all previous governments, all in packages. We saw this yesterday, with the bill on new budgetary measures, and we saw it under the urgency procedure, which we put on a weekend since last Sunday, rather than Monday - Tuesday or Tuesday - Wednesday or Wednesday - Thursday. It was so urgent that we put it next weekend, probably, because there's not a lot of people in Athens because the stores are closed. It is very common to discuss all the key issues relating to the country - and not just for this year or for time, but perhaps for the next hundred years - weekends under the urgency procedure, while all the week goes by by discussing various other things or nothing. Whilst no bills, proposals and discussion procedures have been put before us here, this amendment is now in time - it says here above - and it will be voted on in accordance with the urgency procedure in a bill, which concerns a ratification of the agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the People's Republic of China on public works. This bill, through China, will be passed on. While parliamentary procedures have been ahead of us for a year and a half on issues relating to our country and the process of legislation, the legal framework for public works, we will discuss this through Beijing, through the cultural institutions of Athens and Beijing. Well, these convicted procedures have been denounced in a way by the current government when the previous ones did so, but now the current government has a standing tactic to do these tricks. The Minister quite rightly said all this. This 'SYRIZANEL' government had before it eighteen months to deal with this matter. Did we have to wait for the convention, ratification of the agreement with China, to discuss the legal framework and the institutional framework for public works? This process is unacceptable, convicted, and as Panagiotis Lafazanis would say 'coup d'état' and would strike the hand on the benches as well. These procedures cannot continue, and if they continue, they are only for various comics, not for the Greek Parliament. For this reason, we will be voting 'at present', although, in substance, if we were to discuss it, we would accept the need to do this, which the Minister rightly describes in a ratification bill for China. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr. Psariano. As far as I'm concerned, there's no other colleague who wants to talk. So, if he wants to say something, Mr Stathakis has the floor for two minutes and then the responsible Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Baltas. Here, Mr Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u91	I think three issues have been raised that I want to answer. The first issue of delay, I repeat, is a very large and complex bill. The second point is that the committee, which prepares it, includes the independent authority, too many representatives of ministries. The Commission is also directly involved in the procurement systems in various European countries and we are looking for the best European practices. So it was a multi-month working committee. It took many months to prepare the bill. On the second point, I should like to remind you that the independent authority, the intervention of Mr Rykos and the resignation of Mr Ryku, has called on you in this wording, which was made by the independent authority, to reply directly to the Ministry. He's waiting to see the evidence. We do not have such evidence, that there are derogations and that the committee is not informed. There's no such statistical data. We asked to make them public. So there was a mild political conflict in those days, precisely because we considered - and the Ministry immediately made a statement - that it was an intervention without content at the time when the committee chose to formulate these thoughts. Mr. Raikos resigned because he took an international court seat, which is very good for the country as well. It's a very important place in an international court. It therefore has nothing to do with the previous one, which you mentioned and implied that there is a relationship of frustration or of the committee's incomplete functioning. It's two events that don't relate to each other. On the last point on the committee, I think that any derogations have been made - and they have been made - concern urgent matters such as refugee. These, of course, as a government, we are defending them because they are not derogations which do not have an urgent nature because of exceptional circumstances. The whole other system works with the existing institutional framework. No derogations shall be made either by the suspension. There is the law and the previous law works until it is replaced by the new law. The procedures shall be those laid down and audited by the independent authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u92	Minister, when will you have a new framework?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism. The Minister for Culture and Sport has the floor, Mr Baltas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, may I have the floor now? I would like to say a word about Amendment 455.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u95	You're welcome, Mr. Lazarides. You have the floor now, because then the Minister will close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u96	I would like to say on Amendment 455 that we are waiting for our President to have a provision, which will resolve this issue of the need for judicial rooms, etc. And yet he won't be there for sure in the coastal zone. So I do not think there will be any question of us supporting this amendment, because we are waiting for the provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u97	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. In relation to Mr Loverdos' amendment, I would like to say the following. First of all I am surprised by Mr Loverdos' amendment, which comes today after all this debate on how unnecessary amendments are added to bills and sanctions, such as this one. In order to be consistent with what he says, he should bring this amendment somewhere else and, in particular, when he has content that is not about the Ministry of Culture. The reason for the amendment is that it refers to the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Education. How is it possible - unless it wants to break the government through this amendment - to bring this amendment today, hoping that it will typically be accepted? As to the content of the amendment, Mrs Vakis spoke. We have no objection there to the content, as he quite rightly said. From there on, I should just add a legislative improvement to the draft law on the title. To add the words 'and other provisions' in order to include Mr Stathakis' amendment, which is completely and closely procedural. It does not concern contents of Ministries or of non-ministries. It is about a procedure to allow the procurement procedure to proceed properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents the reports to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Establishment of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Azerbaijan on European Union matters. Consistency of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Georgia and the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Georgia's approach to the European Union. Establishment of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration of the Republic of Moldova on the approach of Moldova to the European Union. Some applications for leave have also been made to the Bureau. MEP Ms Olga Kefaliannis will be absent outside Greece on 28 to 31 May. He asks the House to grant the necessary permission. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u100	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Parliament also called for a short-day absence from abroad from 26 to 29 May. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u101	The House therefore approved the requested permission. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, will we not vote on the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u103	We are now entering the voting process, obviously. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport is finalised: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the mutual establishment of Cultural Centres and other provisions". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u104	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u105	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Undertaking of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the Mutual Establishment of Cultural Centres and other provisions’, was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u106	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u107	The first article was therefore accepted by a majority. Is the amendment acceptable under a general number 454 and a special number 9 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u108	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u109	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u110	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u112	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u113	Therefore, the amendment under general number 454 and a special 9 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u114	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u115	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Undertaking of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the Mutual Establishment of Cultural Centres and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and on articles. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we shall vote on the draft law as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, may I have the floor? For the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u117	For the Minutes? We are now in the vote on the entire bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, I would like to say on the Minutes that under Rule 104(4) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, and I have said so many times in the House - the vote on the whole, if the same article is added - and with the ministerial amendment added the same article - it must be postponed for twenty-four hours. This violation of the Rules of Procedure takes place every time. In my previous session, it was said: 'An article is, it cannot be made wrong'. He shared us with the body and it was wrong. And they had a wrong date in the body, because, of course, in the five minutes that the officials of this House have, after the amendment has been voted on, to go running, to make the body and bring it quickly, mistakes are made. Is there any reason why the Rules of Procedure is being violated at each sitting in this period?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u119	Look, it's a practice we adopt...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u120	In the previous period, in the IE period, there was no that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u121	I understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u122	I have recommended many bills, as a competent minister, and I would come two days later to vote on the whole. I've never seen that before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u123	I've seen this practice happen, too. It can be done because this is a small bill. I shall pass this on, because we have a matter of deadlines, to be voted on so that it can take effect.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u124	Let it come as an emergency.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u125	Okay, we all condemn that. So, ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall vote on the bill as well as on the whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u126	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u127	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u128	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Statification of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the Mutual Establishment of Cultural Centres and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, articles and the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u130	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-25-S1-commons.u131	With the agreement of the House at 11.37 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 26 May 2016 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
