ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the debate on the topical and urgent questions, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Monday, 29 February 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 577/23-2-2016, a topical question by MP Elias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gerasimios Balaoura to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the delay in tabling a bill on regulating the residence permit and work of illegally staying migrant workers. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The No 566/22-2-2016 topical question by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios Prussias, Minister of Culture and Sport, on the emergence of the Samothraki Victory as a pan-European symbol. 3. PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on redundancies in the "Greek Defence Systems" (ESA). B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by Mr Andreas Katsaniotis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction regarding the imposition of municipal fees by the Municipality of Patras on professional establishments in the area by decision of the municipal council. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of National Defence, on the abundance of refugees and non-legal immigrants in Kastelorizo. 3. The question under number 563/22-2-2016 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the abolition of double and triple pensions granted to MPs and members of local government. 4. The question asked by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the response from the NSRP of the project “Axis Heraklion - Mesara” and the delay in its completion. 5. Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of Health, Question No 545/15-2-2016 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the EKAB. 6. The Question No 466/1-2-2016 by Mr. Attica of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiari to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the "millions shared by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to the bankrupt parties". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under number 426/19-1-2016, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the immediate reopening of the recycling plant in Heraklion Crete and the reintegration of workers from WASTE SOLUTIONS. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Vassilikos Katrivanos to the Minister of Health about the secondment of the Ministry of Health. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by no. 1829/10-12-2015 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the lifting of restrictions on the issue of tourist visas from Russia. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS For reasons of time, two questions will be discussed at the same time: The fourth under number 579/23-2-2016 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Christos Katsotis to the Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on measures to ensure the jobs and salaries of workers in the social structures of poverty, and the first question by MP Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophiliapoulou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on delays in the payment of workers to social structures in poverty. These questions, which refer to the same subject, will be discussed at the same time, without affecting the rights of speakers in their speaking time, by applying the provision in paragraph 4 of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Fotou. Let's start with the timely question. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, on June 30, 2016, workers' contracts in social structures for dealing with poverty expire. This date came electoralally with a decision by the then Minister of Labour on the extension so that they continue to operate structures such as the pharmacy, the pool, the grocery store, the time bank and so on. These structures are well-known to have been created in conditions of capitalist crisis, to manage the poverty of our people, which has been widened, exacerbated by the policies implemented and implemented by the parties that have been ruling and ruling and who are charging the crisis on the backs of the workers, the poor farmers, the self-employed. Within two years of starting to function, more than a hundred twenty thousand people have addressed these structures. It is known that the poverty index increased according to today's publications by 8% in 2015. The scale of the problem is great. If we take into account that there is no other measure that really supports those in need, there is a need to ensure that these structures are operated so that there is relief from the major problems faced by these people, problems of survival. Workers in these structures work with self-determination, under difficult conditions, against desperate people, overcoming themselves. Many of them have been unpaid since October 2015, Minister. They are the victims of the various NGOs, who break down any funds. These are NGOs that operate under the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour as ombudsmen, as regards the recruitment of workers and their employment status. Despite the formal extension of the programmes, many NGOs, invoking payment delays, left the programmes, fired the workers, Madam President, and many of them have not been paid for months, facing survival problems. The Ministry, with its recent document to the regions, Minister, provides for the continuation of programmes through non-governmental organizations. This means that the status of the payroll of workers and the bad working relationships that exist will be perpetuated. Several structures operated by the municipalities will lead to a failure to operate and will in the end fully manage any programmes and any funds that the so-called voluntary organisations and non-governmental organisations have. What we ask, Minister, is what measures the government will take to ensure that the jobs and wages of workers in these structures are secure and that the state assumes their function and funding, putting an end to the involvement of the various NGOs so that they do not even miss those crumbs from those who really need them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u3	Mrs Christophilopoulou also has the floor for two minutes to develop her question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, poverty has indeed increased by 7.1%, i.e. the relative poverty in 2015 has increased to 8%. This means that the government must finally turn to the part of growth, investment, new jobs and, of course, to the part of social support. We had asked you a question as early as November, Minister, which is being updated today, as if I had tabled it a week ago. The problem has remained. We have seen it since November, and we have asked you why about a thousand workers in social grocery stores, social pharmacies, vegetables - who play a remarkable role, as an evaluation report you have ordered - is unpaid. You gave an extension until June 30th. How do you guarantee not only that these people will be paid, but that they and others will continue in a network that may exist locally to provide valuable services in two directions? This has been proven and evaluated. One direction is that these people help through and by attracting sponsorships some goods, such as social grocery stores or medicines. On the other hand, they also play a major role in psychosocial support to our fellow humans those most affected by the crisis. This is also a very big acquis, which, if and when it is linked, as was planned, to opportunities for employment and social inclusion, will certainly be able to bear fruit. Madam Minister, I do not just ask what you are going to do with the people who are working today, which is very important. But what is your plan for these structures, which can be financed through the region and you know that? I would therefore like to hear from you what will happen, because through parliamentary control, the mayors and workers who are over 100 000 - eighteen thousand are the number I have, you may have another element - but the beneficiaries so far since 2013, who have started this programme and are admittedly a successful programme. Mistakes or failures may exist at many levels. Controls must be carried out and transparency must be made. However, there is a common confession and yours - the evaluators to whom you have given the mandate to do - that this is a successful programme. What's your plan?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Christophilopoulou. Madam Minister, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is an excellent opportunity for you both to ask this question together and give me the opportunity to answer all the questions you have put. In my view, you have raised three questions. The first is what happens with the poverty structures of the previous NSRP, which expired in September 2015. What's going on with these people? How many are these people? What have you done for these people? You've left them in the air, they're unpaid and others. The second question is this: have you planned the new ESRB and what are you going to do about this new ESRB? How exactly will it work and what contents? Since when do you think it'll start? I'm asking myself. I think that you have asked me these questions. The third question is what is going on in the interim situation and how the people who are already working in these structures are paying off? As far as the first question is concerned, as you both know very well, poverty structures were designed for the NRP 2007-2013. These structures were - some of them you mentioned - the social grocery stores, home-host reception centres, sleeping rooms, cusité structures, social pharmacies, municipal vegetable gardens, time bank and mediation office. Let people hear it. Two hundred and sixteen structures began with a thousand and fifteen employees and ended in September 2015 two hundred four structures with nine hundred six employees. Indeed they were assessed - because, as you know, the NSRPs are being assessed - and the evaluation came out that some of these structures were not successful. We, just came in the second time after the elections, with an act of legislation on 8 October, that is, just the government had sworn, with retroactive effect, past the expansion of structures up to 31-12-2015 and found 3 million from the state budget, because the NRPs had finished, to pay the workers, on the one hand, but at the same time to continue the poverty structures, which we value as also extremely important for this particular juncture of municipal policy and our own policy. As you both know, when it stops an NSRF and gets money from the state budget, there's a huge process. From September to today they have not been paid. Where's the money? To finish this part, where is this situation? Then I'll tell you what I'm planning for the future. It is now: First, twenty-six bodies, as you know, are the ones to which these workers are working for and which we are talking about and providing these services. Of these twenty-six bodies, thirty-seven operations are needed to be paid. As you know, the money was transferred to the Bank of Greece, that is, they're ready to pay everything. However, it is necessary for the competent bodies, namely those who have the workers, to bear the payment documents. So far, so far as we're talking, eight payment transactions have come in, they've been credited and opened today. So those who bring the documents from the institutions are immediately paid in the current procedures. Therefore, as you can see, for the period up to 31-12-2015 and the money is in place and disbursed by legal procedures, as soon as the bodies bring in the necessary supporting documents. I am sorry that they do not bring them back faster, so that we can actually have this opportunity to repay them. So when we returned in October, Mrs Christophilopoulou, we discovered that nothing was planned for the NSRF 2014-2020 in this area, absolutely nothing about an NSRF that nominally covers six years. We then sat down, as always, with Mr Haritsis, who is the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, but also with the thirteen district managers - because, as you know, the NRPs currently belong to the regions, they have the money, we do not have the money - and we all sat together to redesign the landscape that had to apply from now on. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] You want me to say it in phase two? Because I can continue this debate, how we have designed them and how we have done them. Whatever you want, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u7	I have no objection, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u8	If you want to finish...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u9	If you want me to tell you all the design, so that you are ready to answer now, the second time and I answer again, I will be very happy to say it now. So what have we done in the new NSRF in consultation with the thirteen regional directors? We have said about all these structures for a new way of colluding some social grocery stores, for example, with piles. We said to make a structure which can help each other, because we saw that this is better. But it'll be the social pharmacies separately. All the others are detained: homeless reception centres, sleeping rooms, food structures, social pharmacy, etc. A total of two hundred and sixteen structures were designed, more than it was before, than we received on 30 September, with a total of six hundred eighty-seven employees in them. At the same time, however, we thought that all these programmes and all these know-how acquired, if not communicated to local society, are lost. That's why we designed the community centers that the House had the opportunity to vote two or three days ago. The JRC voted 'at present'. The Democratic Reconciliation voted, as we know, along with ANEL and SYRIZA. So, what are community centers and how many are they? It is two hundred and fifty-four of what we have designed in all municipalities with over ten thousand inhabitants. The municipalities as a whole are three hundred twenty-five. How many people are they? It's seven hundred sixty-two. So in the new NSRF, poverty structures with community centres as a whole will have a thousand four hundred forty-nine workers. There's more of them. As you can see, the nine hundred and sixteen present are overhauled today. And there will be a total of four hundred seventy-seven structures in this area, compared with the two hundred four that operate today. We believe that in this way, in a transparent manner, as planned, everyone will be alerted in time. They'll all know that they're going to be proclaimed. These NSRFs are allocated to Greece. There will never again be the example of a municipality in Macedonia that took five KIFHs in the previous NSRF, day care centres for the elderly. This is a very expensive structure, only for the elderly. It costs 200,000 euros a year. That is, for seven years, 1 million euros a year, a municipality of eighteen thousand inhabitants, when the KIFIs throughout Greece were seventy! What does that mean? This means that all the NSRFs were eating so far. I mean, they were planning secrets, they last minute, they only knew about them. So they submitted the heterogeneous ones and they were taken. You need to see the map of the previous NSRP - because today I have all the map of the previous NSRP - and how we planned the new NSRP so that it can be equalised. We don't have customer relationships. We have no municipality of ours, and let's give it, let's say, the NRPs. The time will come then, Mr Katsotis, to say in detail about the NSRF, how they work, what moleculosis they become, how they must be transparent. And yes, it is not money from the state budget, but it is state money in the sense that they are co-financed programmes by the European Union. A total of EUR 150 million will be required in one year for all these structures, once they start operating. The NPTs are already in the European Union. We are already waiting for an answer to their approval within the days, and we will do all we can. And here we come to tell you that with the NGO we are going to define, it will not only be the NGOs who are entitled, but the municipalities themselves will also be the NGO workers who can take these jobs. And they will be modulated with specific molecules all those who worked in the pre-existing situation and not in a state or moleculosis, so that it is minimal for those who had experience in relation to the unemployed. Because it's something we talked about with the workers together. And openly we'll design this whole story and the molecule. On June 30, 2016 - we hope and sooner - the new NSRP will start to apply, the NSRP 2014-2020. Thank you, Madam President, I think I have said most.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u10	Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Madam President. The Minister spoke here about the overall planning of the Ministry by 2020, about the structures that are being created and about the new workers that will be taken to enable them to function. Of course, he said that, beyond the NGOs, it would also be the municipalities, as well as the COMPAs, which would be created by the workers who already operate in these structures. We, Minister, have a completely different concept. We say that poverty and the impoverishment of the population are created because this system is barbaric, because the way of production is such that it cannot satisfy the needs of the workers and the people. Unemployment is inherent in this system, as is the reduction in wages and pensions, because the industrialist, shipowner, banker, merchant and hotel owner need cheap labour to gain even more. It is this way, but also the increasingly deeper crisis that we have all been loaded on the backs of workers and the people and, unfortunately, we will always have such problems. These cannot always be handled through such programmes, which will either be rough, as you say before, or they will not be well designed, or they will also have a good design as you say. In our view, this is treated in another form of economic organization, which will stop man-made exploitation. So poverty can be tackled definitively, so that everyone can actually have work, health, education, have the medicine and not be missing from a worker and man in this society the basic things that need to be, so that everyone's life can be the way it should be. But, Minister, you say that, based on your own activity, everything is fine, but that they do not have the deeds here to be paid. Only the eight of the twenty-six have brought actions to be paid and the rest are being delayed. Yeah, but what's wrong with the workers? I think you can look for another way to ensure that, beyond the remuneration of the NGOs, who take the very heavy money - and allow me the expression, because the fat money is not taken by the workers, but by the NGOs - that at least the workers are paid. I say that a way needs to be found so that these workers can be paid for at the moment. And I come to the second point. We do not agree with the COMEPs, because they too will be another form of NGOs. All right, it won't be like this NGO we know and, if you want, it has a bad name created by various 'treatys' that break down any funds, but the COMMDs will operate on the basis of a design that these workers will do to find a job. And they will try through the COMPA that will make them have the services with the least expense, so that they can have their wages, their share. How's that gonna happen? Aren't there gonna be any problems? We already have problems, serious operating issues with these COMPAs, which have been created. So it is not a solution for the COMES. The solution is that these structures should be under public control, that they should be financed by the state - now you say that the NSRPs are in the regions - and that there should be control over the quality of the services they provide the world, which needs them, but also, of course, about the working relationships that the workers offering these services have. We believe that until the people themselves decide when to overthrow this barbarity, those who need it today, even with the design you say, but with the control of the public, and the pay of the workers and the working relationships that they must have. Why without such employment relationships and without pay, what will be the services provided?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u12	Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u13	Madam President, I address you initially before I go to Mrs Fotou. And you'll see why. We have heard from the Minister here that on 8 October a legislative act was passed - it says that the government had undertaken - to extend structures. I am not going to say anything, Madam President, more than you and the party in which you belong, when they were doing PPP, which had to do with deadlines for the country and the commitments that you have made. So the MAGP passed to a government that was before. The government didn't change. The Greek people have again voted for the same government. On October 8, then, it was a new government, the previous one. So from the end of January, which took on and in February's programming declarations, at least one month has passed. And we arrived in October. It's been ten months? It's been nine months? It's been eight months? Say that the first month is the men's ID month. And did we have to get to that month? And to extend, Minister, on February 2nd, did the workers have to come from outside the SYRIZA office and outside the ministry? We are sorry for what has happened. We regret that the workers have reached this point. I really want to tell you to put down demagogy and populism a little bit. And I'm coming to the N.S.S.A. NRW 2014-2020, Minister, was designed. In fact, all the structures were included in the thematic objective 9. And there was a ready draft law on social partnerships and social grocery stores were included, and all this was not as actions. Watch out. They were integrated as design. Because, as you may know, the government is planning. There were. You didn't discover the wheel. You're just late to understand. There had been meetings with the district officials and all that you said. It's been done before. You did very well. And you, as a government, wanted to redesign. But don't sell us the first time, because people have understood. Well, don't worry about it. It had also been planned and all that. But because they hear of us mayors and the workers and people who have worked in these structures or who have benefited, at least they know that the RDPs currently do not even have integrated projects. Who's responsible? A whole year has passed, and in this thematic objective nothing has been done at all. You've been doing something with Mr. Haritsi lately. And all that after the September elections. From January to September we negotiated with Mr Varoufakis, draining state reserves, putting capital controls, closing banks, and now we have shut down the roads and borders. And see what else we'll close! That's what you did! You're awake! But I'm actually going, Minister. After you woke up... Don't laugh. And a little lower this pride for what you've done, because that's what was planned. And I want you to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u14	Bring them to us here, let's look at them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u15	Seven hundred million euros had been put forward for the unemployed this time, Mrs Fotio. You're representing the entire ministry right now. What have you done for these seven hundred million euros already joined? In fact, you also received a call ready for public service, which you made eight months to activate despite what was ready! You changed it. I'm not an idealist like you. You're a government. You wanted to redesign her. You did well. Eight months? You got it ready. You could change what was about your policy, your choices or Ms. Antonopoulou, Mr. Katrugalos, etc. But down there there was a world that could have benefited from all of this. So I'm waiting for some substance answers. I'm going to community centers now. We said 'yes'. And we voted for them to help you as a opposition. Because we are neither ideological nor demagogues. We don't folk or lie. We have voted for them because we have consulted you. You accepted. And that shows that we can reach agreement on government and opposition if we both want it. We believe that linking with the social services of the municipalities is a functional link to community centres, and that has allowed us, Madam President, to vote on the article to support the government. We are. And the government says all that. Excuse me, will I apologize? What municipality is that? And because you lied that all this was in hiding in the NSRF, I will tell you that all the actions of the NSRF are going up to the "GENERAL", which you voted against. What was he like in hiding? Why are you doing this? SYRIZA voted against it. Mr Tsipras from the beads there was deporting against the 'HUMAN'. Would you like to see the Minutes of the House? You voted against it, and after you voted against it you start now and tell us that the ESRB is happening in secret. It's not in secret, because everything comes out at the “DENMARK”. Everything. The actions, the orders, the invitations, everything. It's all, it's all! I can tell you there is no document. Now, if you dismantle “TRAINING”, this is your issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u16	Minister, for the sake of parity, I'll give you three minutes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u17	I answer both questions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u18	You spoke 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u19	And you five and four in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u20	You've exhausted your speaking time. The two Members have exceeded him, and that is why I am giving you another three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u21	Be well, Madam President. Mr Katsotis, there is no doubt that in that vision of socialism, everything will be done publicly, through the public space and as one translates it into his vision and his plan. Until then we have to manage this money, which we receive from the European Union, in the best way possible, with transparent control procedures and procedures. You are right about control. So I'll tell you that for the first time we...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u22	You're taking us to absolute rule. This is your vision. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u23	Of course, Mrs Christophilopoulou. We do not dismiss our vision of socialism. If you think we're dismissing it, you're making a big mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u24	It's clear where you're taking us! Leave it, Madam President, it is clear now that the Greek people hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u25	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, calm down now. You don't sound first. So what's the point of yelling? It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u26	You're making a big mistake. What happened to socialism? I don't know. The Socialist Party wasn't PASOK, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u27	Social democracy and socialism have nothing to do with what you say. Don't give up on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u28	That's what I'm saying. None. Because social democracy has entered neoliberalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u29	That's what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u30	But let me say something, Madam President. Or do we now want an episode of the media?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u31	What media? You go from TV to TV. Are you kidding?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u32	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, please. Now you know that you are outside the Rules of Procedure of the House. You're interfering.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u33	I'm not gonna be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u34	You don't sound in the meantime, so it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u35	I sound fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u36	Here you go, Mrs. Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u37	But, Mr Katsotis, for the first time we have also submitted to the European Union, but we are also planning a mechanism for monitoring, evaluating and controlling all these structures, and not only, all the programmes in the national strategy for social inclusion. This mechanism will nowadays also be adopted and will be monitored by the Ministry, with an office office, which monitors society, community centres. It will all be in an information system, there will be in our Services within the Ministry and, of course, we will be able to see if it has actually benefited, because there will be an electronic platform in community centres, which will interconnect the beneficiaries with all the programmes that are going on around the region, whether this is called the unemployment programme, whether it is called a social care programme or anything. It's a TEFA, it's for the humanitarian crisis and so on. So everyone can know at any time. So when an organisation does not pay or bring the papers in time, we will know it in good time. These things we haven't known so far. That's the one. For those who say they had designed the NSRF, let's bring them to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u38	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u39	What they say is the treasure's carbon! They have to bring us a piece of paper. There's not even half the paper.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u40	Of course! All the papers you want!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u41	On the contrary, who does not know in Greek society how the NSRFs were eaten to this day? Who doesn't know there's nothing left in the ravine? Nothing left. Why? The NSRF, Mr Katsotis, says that the European Union is pilot projects to implement for six to seven years and then, after assessing them and seeing whether they went well or not, integrating them into the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u42	They're not pilots.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u43	What should the state incorporate, when the distribution within the country did not allow, say, any conclusions to be drawn? You're not allowed to draw any conclusions when they're all unequally distributed. ‘GENERAL’? Of course, "GENERAL", but when a program comes out in "GENERAL" and the beneficiaries must submit within a month, if you don't know it from the outset, if you haven't told it, it's impossible. You rent companies for them and they make them for you. It's impossible to submit. This is how the NSRFs were found, and in this way they were ‘eaten up’. Anyone who doesn't know can keep thinking he was fine. That's what I have to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u44	Madam President, I do not have the floor, but we are lying at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u45	The third and the third.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u46	The lies must stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u47	Now, you're very passionate. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u48	It hurts and Greek society knows that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u49	Lies, no matter what!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u50	Please stop. Let the Minister finish. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u51	The Greek society knows very well what happened with the NSRF. If that's...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u52	Five minutes of celebrity lies! That's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u53	That's not how it works. Please. I see too much passion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u54	I would refer to the 'Valcanjater'. So, look at this film. It's an amazing film.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u55	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u56	What's the point?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u57	It makes sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u58	What can we do? This is how the NRPs were eaten. If you see "Valkanzater", it's an expression of art, it's a film, which best shows what happened with the NSRFs in Greece. I tell you to see it. Now, the PSP is a bad thing. We didn't want them, and we don't want them, but when we find them on 30 September...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u59	You don't want them? We've got a month. Aren't you embarrassed? Is it the others' fault again?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u60	What can I do, ma'am? So passionate now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u61	Madam President, it speaks for six minutes outside the Rules of Procedure, and I also reply out of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u62	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, can this be a meeting? You asked a question. Do you want an answer or do you now want to make a fuss like that to be recorded? What's that thing? It's never heard of.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u63	The Minister does not say anything about the substance! He speaks outside the Rules of Procedure, and I will also speak out of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u64	What kind of show is that? Will you be finished? That's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u65	What I'm telling you. Instead of the Minister answering the essentials...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u66	What are you talking about? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u67	No, it's not possible. We can't hear that. The Minister does not give any answers to the substance. Will we say here about the Valkanizer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u68	You asked a question. Don't you want the Minister to answer? Do you want to answer what you want? Is that possible? And you're talking about democracy and dialogue? Please. If you can't hear, don't ask any more questions. Let it finish. That's not a process. Others ask questions. Are you the only ones resenting? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u69	Yeah, I'm the only one that's irritating.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u70	Well, think about why. Complete, Mrs. Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u71	I'm done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u72	Okay. Now let's go to the next questions. We continue with the sixth question under number 481/2-2-2016 of the Second-cycle Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Athanasios Papadopoulos to the Minister of Health on the implementation and modernisation of the necessary institutional framework to respond more quickly to public services, in order to provide incentives to attract clinical studies in our country. The current question will be answered by the Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Here, Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u73	It is very important, Minister, that we encourage the doctors of the National Health System, hospitals, primary health care units, to participate in clinical studies, which is a very important aspect, and for the development of medical science, for the advancement of research in the country, which also contributes to strengthening the economics of our national economy. As you know, of the EUR 27 billion invested in clinical studies Greece takes a very small portion, and this is because the institutional framework here does not encourage our doctors to participate, because they have not been given a set of incentives that would help them to get into this whole area that is crucial to the public health system. I think we should see in your answer the ways in which doctors of the ESS can be helped to proceed to clinical studies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u74	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u75	My dear colleague, I think that is an important question. It is a critical deficit today in the development of research and the functioning of the health system in our country. There have been small improvements lately, but certainly the whole chain that starts with the EOF, from the Department of Clinical Studies of the EOF, to the Ethics Committee on Clinical Tests, to the health regions, hospitals, all this system needs to be reintegrated, to have an update of this whole context. We are also very helpful in integrating a new European regulation. There is the European Regulation 536/2014, which is applicable to our country, the implementation of pilots begins this year and will be completed within 2017. It is an important modernisation of this system, there will be a common portal for submitting applications from pharmaceutical companies to all countries that can undertake clinical trials, facilitate procedures, speed up the whole system, and that will be helpful for our country as well. We have recommended, at the initiative of the EOF, a working group consisting of experts from the EOF, representatives from the pharmaceutical industry and from the 1st RCF, because there are also the large hospitals, which can carry out clinical studies, and of course there will also be cooperation with other health regions. So this working party is working on a draft - because the regulation also provides for national rules - which will bring us this for approval in the next two months, at the latest, on the basis of which the bases will be re-established to improve the operation of this whole process. It is obvious that it is of great value to promote clinical research and to promote new innovative medicines, which have a better therapeutic effect and improve the quality of life of patients, has an obvious positive impact on the development function of the health and the economy in general, contributes to optimising research functions in the health system, gaining experience from health system officials and of course also provides additional resources to hospitals and health regions, but also gives the possibility of an additional income for the human resources of the system. So, in that sense, they are totally acceptable. Of course, we must be clear that the necessary flexibility, which needs to be speeded up, so that the approval of applications is not delayed and our country is not deterrent to promoting such clinical trials, must not have negative interference with the need for and protection of the safety of patients and the protection of public health and the protection of the public interest. Let me say that the data from the EOF say that within 2015 we have twenty-eight applications for clinical trials total benefits for the 60m euro health system. Of these, it is important that three are concerned with the '1' phase, namely the early phase, the research - which is the most demanding, because it is done on healthy volunteers - thirty-two is a '2' phase, eighty are a '3' phase and thirteen for the '4' phase, the postgraduate phase. So the FDA thinks he has an important know-how. There is excellent human potential in both the EOF and research potential in services, institutions, hospitals, universities, university laboratories, institutes, etc. I think, therefore, that with a sense of better operation of the whole system and the integration of the new European guidelines, we can have a multiplier positive result for the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u77	The critical size, Minister, is the issue of encouraging Greek doctors from the National Health System to participate by eliminating the anti-incidents that exist today in the institutional context. That is why all the adaptation of the national legislation on clinical studies must try to give our doctors a clear incentive to make a substantial contribution to the use of clinical studies. This is, I think, a central issue for the question I ask to be taken into account. All the anti-incentives that exist today to disappear in order to make Greek doctors of the public health system more massive in all this effort, which, as you said, has a national scope.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u79	I'd like to say a couple more words. The field is very open, especially for our country's domestic production industry. The facilitation of clinical studies is of great interest, because it also concerns bioequivalence studies for generic drugs, which are ‘1’, and it is very important that we have the institutional capacity and the technical support of these studies that are very efficient. So we don't disagree on the need. There is an effort from the EOF and a number of critical innovations are promoted, such as the National Register of Clinical Studies and Researchers, that is to say, to know what the studies that have been submitted and which have been approved, who the researchers who have been involved, what the research centres are and what they are certified for this possibility. There will also be a Register of Clinical Studies per Hospital, in which the results of clinical studies will be published, the participants and, of course, the revenues of the hospital or the healthcare region - because it takes a percentage of each other from the clinical studies - so that we have a transparent management of these resources. And of course it is very crucial to have a good information for both patients, citizens and society about the benefits of this function. I therefore think that we are also strengthening the certification and evaluation and social control of the whole process. This is an element that I think encourages and strengthens the completion of this project. All links, as we said before, are important: the EOF, the Ethics Committee, which is trying to support secretarially better - by the EOF, is being supported - and to deal more quickly with cases. IF is committed within two months in sixty days to answer requests. Subsequently, the Ministry of Health and the Hospitals will be able, at this difficult stage, to carry out this very important task with the labour pressure and increased demand, due to the poorening of society in the health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, since they have previously participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation, seventeen students and students and two trainers of teachers from the 10th Municipal School of Haiti. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The first under number 575/23-2-2016, the first question of the first cycle of the Greek MP for the Radical Left coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, on the return of loans granted to the parties New Democracy and PASOK, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The second question under number 564/22-2-2016, first question by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy, Christos Stakouras, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the assessment of the new financial measures for the period 2015-2016, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The third, with number 568/22-2-2016, is the first question of the Members of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR of Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the payment of the compensation and aid due to the farmers of Elias, is not discussed because of the impediment of the Minister. The fourth question under number 578/23-2-2016 is the first question of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Sakis Vardalis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the dismissal of a worker at the factory of "K.E. KARAMARAKIS - KARAS S.A. - ANNUAL INDUSTRIAL AND TRADE INSTITUTIONS' IN the Industrial Area of Sindos, in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki, is not being discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Because there are many of them, we will go back to the second question to the Minister for Health, so that colleagues will not be late. The seventh question under number 511/9-2-2016 will be discussed at the second time in the Greek Parliamentary I of the Republic of New Democracy. Elena Rapti to the Minister of Health regarding the revocation of decisions dedicating innovative services from the Institute of Health of the Child. This Minister will answer, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Mrs. Rapt, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u81	Madam President, Minister, for three months, for unexplained reasons and at a rapid pace, there has been a depreciation of important and innovative services from the Institute of Health of the Child. The management of the Institute, completely pretextfully, decided not to renew any contract of specialized scientific and material personnel by blowing up programmes such as the national record of cases of abuse - child neglect, the national telephone line for maternal breast feeding and other similar contents of programmes. This tactic is expected to affect the suspension of other innovative programs related to travelling minors, the dehabilization of child hospitality structures, the training of health professionals in primary care of children and others. It is impressive to end the term of office of officials, for which the appropriations for their employment have been kept, without the burden of the state budget. With bureaucratic procedures, then, you are disengaging the Institute for the Health of the Child from the power of its staff, at a time when children are vulnerable to an environment full of challenges, which would require the institution to be strengthened rather than to be systematically dismantled. However, when much of its innovative actions are supported by external funding, Minister, funding provided by the Institute's directorates. However, the logic of this administration is to ensure that the addresses of the Institute are directed beyond state funding and that they are not formally managed by themselves, but to have them available to private companies or non-governmental organisations to which the co-management of innovative programmes will now be entrusted, effectively limiting the role of directorates in resources finding and not carrying out a project. It is, if anything, a strange concept of public health. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. I would like to ask you, Minister, if you can ensure that the decisions to suspend the innovative services are withdrawn and that the Health Institute of the Child are flexible as a legal person under private law for the direct use of resources and the execution of innovative services by their own services, which, until now, the Institute's administration itself has been prevented for unexplained reasons, and also if you can ensure that contractors who are necessary are not fired, are not made redundant in order to continue the innovative actions of the Institute, when they could even remain without a burden on the state budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u82	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u83	Madam President, it is an opportunity - I think - to highlight the very important role that the Institute for the Health of the Child has done over the years since 1979. It is identified with the known neonates' screening test that controls four congenital diseases, the lack of G6PD, congenital hypothyroidism, lactazaemia and phenylketonuria. It is an institute which has also performed a very crucial role today in the field of prevention, early diagnosis of diseases - particularly metabolic diseases, where it has a very large and accumulated experience - and clinical monitoring of children who have problems of this type, as well as research and incorporation of scientific developments and innovations which can thus strengthen the functioning of the health system in our country. There has, in fact, been a very important development effort in recent years by scientific executives and researchers from the Institute, who have benefited from European resources, managed to fund projects that had innovation elements and identified critical social problems, such as child abuse, child trafficking, issues related to maternal breast-feeding, child-psychiatric care, etc. There is no change of policy in this regard. Just what has happened is that many of these programmes expired in the previous period, that is, their implementation, and in that sense there was no possibility of prolonging. Where it had not been completed or where there were loose ends, the Institute's administration took decisions - and I can make five recent decisions in the Minutes from November - where it was possible to extend a few months to staff contracts, which it was working there, of scientific staff, to complete the programme. The only programme that has been stopped and was not extended was the programme entitled "Completed approach to exploring, diagnosing and managing child abuse and neglect incidents", in which, from 30/10, the implementation of the natural object had been submitted. On the basis of the European programmes, there was no possibility of prolonging the workers' contract in this programme. So neither is there a line that says that we are cutting off European programmes nor of course there is a line that says, that we are deviating the institute from experienced executives. These workers were very remarkable scientists and scholars, whom the Institute took advantage of to complete these programmes. Obviously, to the extent that the financial framework, in the 2014-2020 EPA, will be able to integrate programmes of this type and implement, their experience will be exploited and people themselves will be able to contribute to the institution's functioning again. I think, therefore, that there is no fundamental change of direction in this line, which has been followed over the years. We, as the Ministry's political leadership, support the Institute, is a supervised body from us, we finance it with EUR 1.9 million per year, we appoint part of its administration, etc. Obviously we have the political responsibility for the good functioning and the achievement of its objectives, which are all that we have said before, namely clinical research and prevention and health care and the contribution to major issues of particular concern to the child population. That's the first answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u84	Mrs. Rapt, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u85	Minister, I feel you have answered the question but you have not answered the problem. I repeat that this is very clear and that is why I would like a clear answer from you. Do you intend to solve the problem or will you let it be part of a general bad image of the country's social policies? I will insist, Minister, on three points, which I consider to be central to the issue we are discussing and I would ask you to give me a clear answer in your denology. You say that there is no political change, but it is clear that the programmes mentioned have been abolished. Correct me if I am wrong, but I have not diagnosed somewhere in your word to change something, and I have not understood why programmes - and I am not talking about what has been completed - there are guaranteed appropriations for the remuneration of those who run them, they stop. Tell me, at least, if the programme that you abolish for bureaucratic reasons seems to be intended to replace it with another or finally feel that there is a national reference file and a national protocol on the diagnosis of child abuse cases, even a national line on maternal lactation, are issues of secondary importance and there is no need for them to exist? Secondly, Mr Minister, and directly on the first. The deforestation policy of the specialized staff of the institute that you do not accept, I have no idea why it is. And I say that because I know that their payroll is not the responsibility of the state budget. I am also aware that it is guaranteed by external financing obtained by the Institute's own addresses. I know that these executives have a sum of experience and know-how, which is central to the sensitive social sector they serve. If all this happens, what is the logic of the decision to remove them? I'm asking you. Do you intend to do something specific for their immediate re-entry, so that the Institute's stopped programmes, for which funding is already planned, can be refunctioned? Finally, it is particularly surprising that the Institute's addresses ensure external funding and then invoke formal reasons for their inability to involve them in the management of the programmes, suggest that private companies or NGOs should be invited to manage the implementation of the innovative programmes. Is there anything I don't understand or do you prefer private management against public policy? Because if that happens, Minister, I think you're doing it in the wrong place. If you want to provide samples of support for the private initiative, there is a list of demilitarizations, Greek entrepreneurship, foreign investment and other glorious glorification fields! I'm closing in two or three sentences, Minister. They are unpleasant in hearing, but it is good to say. Last October 2015, a father in Chania revealed that he raped his minor daughter for two years. In November 2015, a pedophile who was slamming to young girls was arrested. In December 2015, a student reported his uncle raped him. In January 2016, a 40-year-old father was arrested who was slashing to his daughter's six-year-old friend. That's all we've learned. The Institute, Minister, not only must not be weakened but must be doubled in size and operational capacity. Today my question has one single objective, the request to rethink the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u86	The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u87	Madam President, I think this is obviously a misunderstanding. I do not understand, in other words, any other kind of political argument. Firstly, there is no NGO commitment plan for the management of European programmes, which has so far managed the addresses of the Institute of Health of the Child. There is no such issue, nor is there such a decision by the administration, nor is there such a wish. So this on privatisation is closing. I think it may be a false picture and information that has been given. Secondly, this is not about planning the Ministry. This is a project made by an independent body, which is naturally supervised by us and which we seek - and I think we have already sent a clear directive to all the supervised bodies of the Ministry - which will promote the integration of funding from European programmes in the next period, to serve a single political design for public health. That is why we are calling for the approvals of the Ministry which must be approved, and for us not to promote programmes which are not cohesive and converging in an objective which is both upgrading public health and public health services. The problems to which you have referred are obviously very important and we must exhaust all margins so that these services, either at research or at the level of the creation of social structures, which are intervening either in preventive or therapeutic terms in these problems, are strengthened and shielded by the state and our society. There's no question of interrupting programs. There is a question of completing programmes. The necessary extensions have been made for any of these which have not yet been completed. There are four - five decisions by the Management Committee - which I can table in the Minutes and look for - which extend to workers' contracts until 31 March I have one here. From 23 November to 30 April 2016. Another programme is the trafficking and protection of children, particularly at the borders of Greece, Turkey. There is no such matter as what you have raised. We are therefore open to the cooperation of all the scientific resources and the Institute for Health of the Child and, more generally, to all supervised bodies from the Ministry, in order to have the best possible preparation for the new financial period, to have the synergies that we need and, above all, to have the best social result. This is our will, and it obviously has no basis for any criticism that he says, that we systematically deport or try to give private enterprises a public function.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u88	The next eighth is the eighth under number 537/15-2-2016 topical question by the Member of the Independent Greeks, Vassilis Kokalis, on the need to adapt the legislation governing the status of "trainers" to the transitional schools of adults of the Centre for the Treatment of Independent Persons (CSE) You have the floor for two minutes, Mr. Red.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the topical question concerns the JETs and teachers who work there. The JETHEA is the most important and largest network that provides coordinated services for the decommissioning and social reintegration of former users of psychoactive substances. In Larissa, where I'm elected, it's been working since 1989. Already in 2000, as an educational structure, the transition school of adults III high school, I, II and III of high school, operates in all the members of the curative programs of the CEDEFOP. This transition school of adults enables pupils to reintegrate into the educational process and to be upgraded. Many of them have already entered higher education. It is admirable to do the work that this school and teachers perform. What do these people, who are regarded as trainers? With the current legislative framework they want to be assimilated, recognised to one another legally, to be teachers, because the work they provide is very important: destroyed people lead them back to society. However, part-time contracts are not covered. And they inform the Minister that they want to be treated as other teachers to continue to produce their work. They have a peculiar legal name, "trainers". They're practically teachers. I know the Ministry of Education is involved. So these people are asking to continue to produce work and help ruined individuals in society. As I said, many of their students have gone to higher education. The current law, however, Minister, does not favour them. So you ask: do you intend to include the full employment of these teachers in any new legislation? Secondly, is the Ministry's intention, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, to mobilise the multi-annual service? This service is not recognized for these people and they are specific. They're two philosophers, a mathematician, a physicist, an economist, a gymnast and an artistic teacher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u90	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u91	Mr Colleagues, for the CDE's contribution to the operation of the whole system of structures, programmes and agencies for dealing with dependency, I think we will not disagree. It has happened too many times in this Chamber to point this out. It is a very critical body, which covers a part of the constant problem, which exists in the country, because this problem is multifactorial and requires holistic intervention and combined actions, from prevention to reduction of damage, rehabilitation, treatment, rehab and reintegration. So the CHETH plays a key role in this system. It has this, in my view, very innovative idea of developing its own informal education structures, these transitional schools. The JETHEA has chosen to be of this type - they are not classical educational structures - mainly strengthening the logic of reintegration and rehabilitation. The aim of these structures is to restore the disrupted relationship between the education systems. Because the picture is that a very large proportion leaves compulsory, but also overall education, because of the problems and the relationship with dependency. Therefore, it also strengthens the possibility of social reintegration, because you know that a very crucial role in this is played by work and education. So the necessity is that we do not disagree. It's about fifty of these trainers all over the country. Report the data for your area. It must be clear, however, that they have a contract with the CECH and it is an indefinite part-time time. That's the regime. The CECH has chosen this contract. The CCEE is a self-government body. It is, of course, supported by the Ministry. It takes 16 million euros a year. You know, however, that we don't even appoint an administration to the CEDEFOP. It is part of the ideological and healing culture of the CEDEFOP, that is to say having a self-government function that strengthens and the participation of the healed, etc. The question, therefore, of the full employment of these trainers, of teachers, is a matter of negotiation with the CTE itself. The issue of mobilisation is obviously an issue that we can see in cooperation with the Ministry of Education. We as a Ministry have already made a working party headed by the Ministry's Secretary-General, who wants to bring forward an integrated proposal covering all the educational programmes carried out in the context of all dependencies, because there are other bodies, such as '18NO', which have corresponding educational procedures. I therefore think that when we are ready from this point of view, we can, in consultation with the Ministry of Education, make an intervention that improves this regulation, which was in any case a few days ago in the 'parallel' programme and concerned compensatory training. He had a paragraph expressly referring to educational programs. I think, therefore, that the basis for dealing with the work problems is there and I believe that these workers, in consultation with the JETD, can discuss - and with our own political coverage - the best possible solutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Red has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u93	Minister, the dependency of the people who are driven to the CEDEFOP is not only physical, it is mental. Teachers who provide this project do exactly half the work. First, it's medical treatment, and then psychic. Mental dependence is related to the view of dependent people towards society. All these addicts have a revulsion towards society. And now these educational structures are coming, through trainers, who are in fact teachers, to help these people - since medical staff are doing half the job for physical dependency - to join society. I am pleased that you have mentioned that there is a possibility and thought of recognizing the multiannual pre-service of these teachers. Recognition is not just about individuals themselves. It has to do with the C.E.E.L.D. itself, for the operation of the C.E.L.D. In Larissa, where I'm elected, there's a CTE. I would like you to look with great diligence and attention at this particular issue. It is not a question of these people being recognized for themselves alone, but of recognising the strength and importance of the CECH nowadays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u94	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to say this: Especially for this year, precisely because we recognise the important work of the CECH - as are the other institutions of course, and the OkANA and the '18ONO' and the programs in psychiatric hospitals - we have anticipated a targeted support with human resources. There are eighty positions, in a notice that will be there now - we have an act of cabinet - for the structures of rehab. Thirty-five of them are about the C.E.T.E.L.D. This is the first staff recruitment process after 2006. In this decade several workers left and decreased the human resources of the CDEH, while, due to the crisis, the demands for support for dependents were increased. It is known that the crisis strengthens these behaviours and multiplies the phenomenon of dependence. So there is a political will to further strengthen all the programs that the CECH performs. There are new programs, these seven psychodiagnostic centers, which were funded through the ESRB and ended in mid-2015. We have ensured, with an eight-month contract, that they are reopened and that they continue to be treated for people who have the problem of double diagnosis, that is, cohesiveness of addictive and psychiatry. So I think it is clear that we want to support this whole framework. And I think there is a glorious field - and in cooperation with the Ministry of Education - to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u96	The fifth under number 573/23-2-2016 top-level question by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kossilis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the need for more complete information to PPC clients on the possibilities and protection offered to sensitive social groups, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The sixth question under number 571/22-2-2016, first question by MP of the Greek Parliamentary I of the Union of Centres, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Health, on the need to complete the tender launched since 2007 for the supply of new ambulances from the EKA, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The previous question is the competence of Mr Polakis, and what I said because of the impediment of the Minister of Finance is the responsibility of Mr Tsakalotou. The first, with number 576/23-2-2016, a top-level question for the second-cycle Parliamentary Corfu of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Fotinis Vakis to the Minister of Health, on the needs of the General Hospital of Corfu, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The second question, under number 565/22-2-2016, of the second question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, New Democracy, Konstantinos Karagunis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the continuation of the university departments in Agrinio, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The third, with number 569/22-2-2016, is a timely question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the contribution of the Ministry to improving the banking product, called the Carta Farmer, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The fifth question, under number 574/23-2-2016, of the second question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the press release on the new administration of the Greek Sugar Industry against the former administrations for mismanagement that caused damage to the industry's property, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Nikolaos Dendias is requesting permission from a short-day leave abroad, from 4.3.2016 to 11-3-2016, for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u97	The House approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The question, pursuant to Rule 134(2) of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, the MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Ioannis Koutsoukouou to the Minister of Finance, will be discussed, pursuant to Rule 134(2) of the Minister of Finance, regarding the refusal of the Treasury to reveal the grandeurs over one million euros who joined with the graceful act of legislative content in the regulation of the hundreds of instalments. On behalf of the government, Mr. Floor Alexiadis will answer. Parliamentary representatives are the following colleagues: From the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr.Kos Kegeroglou, from SYRIZA Mr. Christos Bigalas, from New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Vroutsis, from the People's Association - Golden Dawn, from Evangelos Karakostas, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Nicholaos Karathanasopoulos, from the POTAMI Mr.Theocharis (charis) Theocharis, from the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos and from the Union of Centrons Mr. I'll announce the times every time I call you at the Step. Ladies and gentlemen, before Mr. Koutsoukos begins, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, forty-three students and schoolchildren and three educational attendants from Fustani High School and from the Gymnasios hexaplatanos Pellas, which is hosted in Athens, as part of an educational programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor. Time for your protology is ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are talking about a double time scandal. We are talking, in other words, about the act of legislative content of 27 March 2015, by which the government has entered into the regulation of the hundreds of doses of the grandees over a million euros without any condition, without any criterion, and has given them fines and increases of n. Council Regulation (EC) No 2523/1997 on large-scale tax evasion operations, which are also being prosecuted in criminal proceedings. We are talking about the scandal of hiding the names that have benefited from this act, which have been used or for which you have then made it. We would not be here today if you had fully complied with your obligations, as arising from the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House, namely to give us the names of those you served and to answer the six successive questions of the Group of the Democratic Alliance, our topical questions and the request for documents that we have made. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the matter of late payment had been dealt with many times by the Greek Parliament. Our own effort, when we joined the government with Prime Minister Samaras, to resolve this problem, produced with Law No.4305/2014, where, on favourable terms, we enabled them to join in a regulation that is particularly favourable to thousands of petty people. At that time, one million euros was set up, because we mourned that they are not all the same and that policies must have a sign and be addressed to some. Mr Tsipras was lying to Mr Hadinikolaou - I remember - that we never crossed the 100-dose arrangement because we took it back when the lenders asked for it. This was the case until the day when the SYRIZA - ANEL Government decided to bring in another arrangement, that of Law No.4321/2015, which was adopted here on 20 March, which, as I said from this Step, had more favourable conditions, lower interest rates and higher instalments for some cases. That is why we voted against, contrary to what SYRIZA did, which did not adopt our own rules. We have said, even one to benefit, that we vote on it. What happened in a few days? On the 27th of March, on the 3rd day of the holiday - you have something to do with national anniversaries and holidays, because all legislative acts, all intoxications take place on these days of the holidays - we learned from the media that an act of legislation was filed, which altered the content of the law that we had passed a few days ago, seven days ago, and put the debt-insurance debtors into the vote for more than EUR 1 million. At the same time, it enabled them to delete fines and increases of Law 2523/1997 for large tax evasion operations, which, as I said earlier, were also being prosecuted, as opposed to all the previous regulations, which only did - and rightly so - were to delete the increments due to a delay, that is, one could not pay and the increments entered. The incentive was given to delete the increments due to late payment in order to make the arrangements. At that time, we denounced this act, firstly, as scandalous, because there was no limit, no income or an asset. So it didn't matter if the other guy had money and he didn't pay intentionally, if he had huge fortunes, and he didn't pay deliberately. You joined the setup. We also denounced the fact that you effectively intercepted Parliament's vote. Like you did the other day here, altering the bill for the register of public administration officials. But you were saying for two months and other things proved to have been passed by the House. So you have changed the Members' vote by legislative act, and you have intercepted ours as well. Because we would never vote for it. And the question is, why did you do it. The possible reasons are two. One reason is that you wanted to serve in the intervening period, from these underground relationships the government has, which allegedly fights interests, bails against national contractors, against national suppliers, against those who wasted the wealth of the Greek people in the Olympic Games and is smuggling daily with them, taking pictures, smiling. The second version is that you were afraid of a majority, namely that this legislation would not be passed by Parliament, if we denounced it, and that is why you brought it by legislative act. Proof of this is that you brought the act to be ratified after a month and a half, just to have been created, to have gone, i.e., to make the arrangements and not to get it back when the whole House was yelling, I imagine the majority Members too. The scandal continues because by violating your duty, the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House, Minister, you refuse to tell us who you have done so and who you have benefited from it. You call on tax confidentiality, which, in our view, does not exist in this case, because it is a regulation. But we who allegedly protect the interests and have underground routes, as you are accusing us, had the courage to vote here in Parliament on 31 March 2011 on the provisions of Law 3943/2011. This law enabled the names of the grandparents to be published above EUR 150,000 and because Mr. Venizelos, as Minister of Finance, published M.A. on 1-9-2011, the names of the grandparents were published and they are posted on the relevant website of the Ministry of Finance, of which you are leading, Minister. I guess you know that. If you do not know, I will submit here in the Minutes the list of legal persons, which is a thousand pages. I didn't have the chance to print them. You will give me your e-mail address, if you tell me that you do not know it, and it concerns seven thousand and eighty-two legal persons and the list of natural persons published, too, which is a hundred forty-three pages and five thousand natural persons. Your omission is that you are drunken by the secret, not only that you are not giving us the information, because if these lists had been updated in March of 2015 and if you had informed them instantly, as is your obligation under the law, today a ordinary citizen, who has an interest in seeing who works the political system, would be able to compare and draw conclusions who were settled as you systematically hide it. Please, I'm tabling this in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, Minister, you have no excuse to tell us who has benefited from this scandalous arrangement. Right now we have official lists, the lists of the Ministry of Finance. You like here in this step to move cards on the lists of the previous ones and tell us that we didn't hit the tax evasion, that we covered it up. Well, I ask you directly: From the lists of previous speakers, Lagard, Liechtenstein, the fifty-five thousand, who we opened the accounts and you voted against and you now have them in your ministry to hit tax evasion, who are included in this arrangement? Who, in other words, of those who feared you would arrest the tax evasion and punish them for coming out of the window to give them the opportunity not to pay the fines and increments? I want you to respond, because you, Minister, may not have been a member of the government at that time, but you are a member of this party and you are supporting it. And now you're in charge. You have the political and legal responsibility and because you may have some jobs towards the previous political leadership, because I am quite sure that you have no interest in hiding and covering, I would also like to inform you and the political leadership of your Ministry, that we will exhaust all the means, that this case will be brought to an end, because at the time when we call on the ordinary Greek citizens to help get the country out of the crisis and have done so with blood and sacrifices, we cannot cover those who "drink the health of the suckler". Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. Mr Alexiadis, Deputy Minister of Finance, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in this particular question I have answered many times in this House, I have tabled a great deal of information, but I am always wiser to how some politicians operate and how certain procedures are in place, and if this process is ultimately aimed at informing the citizen, our institutional response, our obligation, or whether it is aimed at cheap impression. As far as the impression is concerned, however, you will be sure that when the whole process is over and read the papers I will present today, you will see that in the wrong subject you have chosen to focus. It's specific things. With regard to what we have done, the amendment to the relevant decision on the disclosure of dues to the State has been published in the FEK on 19-12-2015. For we, Mr Papoutsis, are not afraid to talk about either a debt or a debt. I have not seen anything in your question about the debts of the media, and we have submitted data from the GATT. It seems that these are not your debts, they only concern you with some other debts. So what did we do? On 19 December, the relevant Ministerial Decision was made public, setting out the whole procedure for the publication of the new tables. I will submit to the minutes of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, which shows that the next period of time, of course, will be the implementation of this law. We have never said that we will not implement it, but do not rush, we will say how to implement it. We are told by the General Secretariat of Public Revenue that a text will be sent to taxpayers whose debts will be made public - because some debts will be made public - and this is done in accordance with the recommendation of the Personal Data Protection Authority. This e-mail will be sent to taxpayers in March. They estimate that, after the completion of the computerized procedure, in March, the relevant publication will also be available. The document will be filed in the Minutes of Parliament. There is also another document from the Directorate-General for Electronic Governance, which says in particular, that implementation has begun to make these debts public, which is expected to be completed, in accordance with the relevant provisions. But as far as the serious words you said about a secret scandal, about the Constitution, about the Rules of Procedure of the House, are concerned, I cannot honestly understand. Did you vote for Law 3943/2011? I read exactly what the Directorate-General for Receipts of the General Secretariat for Public Revenue says in accordance with Article 9 of Law 3943: ‘It is further noted that in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 9 of Law 3943/2011 and Article 3 of the POL. 1185 that you have read, there is a public disclosure of data on total outstanding debts to the State that exceeds EUR 150,000. Excluded is the debts for which a partial payment facility has been granted or have been subject to a partial payment arrangement for outstanding debts for as long as the facility or arrangement lasts and if the debtor is consistent with its terms of validity.’ So what are you denounced to us? Where do you refer to all these heavy words, that we have violated the Rules of Procedure of the House, that we have violated the Constitution, that we are illegal? Because we implement a law that was passed by you, that's our intrusion? And you come here with heavy expressions and ask us to tell you how many and whom the debtors are. Are you asking to violate a law that protects specific citizens' rights? In other words, if they understand what you are asking for, there is one other debt, this debt goes and regulates it, is there your law, Mr.3943/2011, which forbids the Treasury - if the debtor has regulated his debt and serves it - to come and make public the facts and you are asking us to violate this law and come here to Parliament and submit this information? I fully understand your political problems, I fully understand the political deadlocks, and I understand the inability to express an alternative political speech, because you are constantly making the same political mistake, for which we thank you very much. You make a constant criticism of SYRIZA's election promises before January 2015 and before the last pre-election period, you make a constant criticism of what we did within a year and forget to make a reference or a review of what you have done decades now. Fortunately, Greek citizens remember and compare what has been happening now, with what has been done in previous years in the field of tax administration. So as far as your criticism is concerned - to close this point - that we are violating the laws, nothing has to do with reality. The law is specific and we implement it. It has nothing to do with the reality of your criticism that we are hiding elements of a great one. Hey, don't blame us for struggling or trying to hide! And since you are often referring here to what was voted on in a legislative act, I would like to remind you of something of legislative content on 31 December on television advertising tax, who voted on them? SYRIZA MPs? You have been deprived of tens of millions of euros by taxpayers. So I cannot understand how we have come to blame us when you have a splendid splendid splendid field, with what you have done in previous years. But I would also like to point out something else, which is most important, not the essence of your question, but the parliamentary procedure. You are constantly accusing us that the ministers do not come to parliamentary control, that they do not respond. I was actually on the limit to follow such a tactic for this question. What for? You asked a written question on 21 October, to which I replied. You have turned this question into a timely question. I came to the House on 11 December and had a whole debate on this matter. This issue has been answered in detail in the House. I have tabled detailed tables. I would remind you of the Minutes of the House - because you seem to have forgotten that - the information I have mentioned about'more than 1,000 000'. We fully understand your abstention and your disagreement with the hundreds of doses - you have formulated it too many times - but because you keep talking about the 1,000 000 to tell you that the figures are something that remains, we cannot change them. So what did I answer then by submitting the relevant information? "More than 1,000,000 joined 0.03%. This 0.03% has brought us 20% of the money we have received from this arrangement." So we must stop hypocrisy and voices about these things. I have fully responded to my parliamentary duty to inform the House. That's why I've submitted everything that was available. We have answered very clearly your questions, speeches in bills, in a timely question. I understand the reasons why you want to bring the matter back and I close it by saying that we have fulfilled our legal obligation beyond normal. In fact, we have made progress with a new decision. We have fulfilled our obligation to the full. Secondly, our political obligation has been met on several occasions, with evidence, with answers to questions, with anything else we could do. It is good to continue your criticism here because it seems that at other points of government policy there is a weakness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u102	We also thank the Minister for keeping the time. The circle of parliamentary representatives is now opening. The first is to speak from the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Kegeroglu. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, we have been calling for the implementation of the Constitution, the laws, the Rules of Procedure of the House, on matters relating to parliamentary control, but also on legislative work. It is, of course, about the application of self-evidents. But with the government's practice that shows that the government does not respect the Constitution, the institutions and the rules, we also have to give this struggle. We owe it to the citizens. Last case of government practice, the previous deception of Parliament by replacing an entire article, just before its vote, without a report by the General Accounting Office of the State, without an introductory report, directly violating Article 75 of the Constitution. However, I will not go any further, because today we are discussing a particular big issue, the Ministry of Finance's refusal to inform the House of the details of the seventy-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-s-seven-s, which have benefited from this act of legislative-sense act. It is obvious, whatever the Minister says, that the Government, with this act on 27 March 2015, carried out a methodological approach. Otherwise she'd be okay with the law. The purpose of this approach is to favour specific systematic and large tax-guns which, the Minister himself revealed after our pressure, are two hundred seventy natural and legal persons. Despite the repeated questions, the requests for documents, the timely questions, Mr Alexiades stubbornly refuses to bring to Parliament the elements of these great ones. It is invoked by non-existent to far-reaching justifications for covering the case which, in the way it is handled, takes the form of a scandal. The last argument is forging behind a bad one - in his view - a law. But we'll see them one by one. In general and vaguely invokes the existing institutional framework, without invoking specific provisions, which allegedly commits it and does not allow it to provide the requested information. Fear, you said you'd have problems with justice, Minister. Probably, but you'll probably have the opposite. You are obliged, Minister, to tell us the specific provisions which bind you and not to invoke the existing institutional framework in general. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] Specific things. The study of Article 92 of the Code of Access to Public Documents and Documents, which was ratified by Article First of Presidential Decree 28/2015 - which, incidentally, was published only one issue before the publication of the specific act of Legislation under the heading "Preservation of Confidentiality" - does not give rise to the foundation of the claim of the Minister. I put the relevant FEC into practice. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, the well-known for the rigour of the Personal Data Protection Authority in its opinion No 3/2004, among other things, states: “Social control is an integral part of the democratic culture. Its constitutional protection is specified in Rules 124 et seq. of the Rules of Procedure. Where the submission of documents in the context of parliamentary scrutiny is necessary to establish the Member's question, access by the Member to any documents relating to a public case shall be permitted, even if the Member is aware of his or her personal data. The constitutional safeguarding of parliamentary control requires access even to sensitive personal data, since of course their knowledge by the Member is essential to the foundation of control.' I give the relevant opinion in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirdly, it is clear that not only natural but also legal persons are among those who are protected. As much as you wish to approach the lack of arguments, on behalf of Mr Alexiadis, it can only be pointed out that in any case, even in his own logic, legal persons are not covered by tax secrets. It is characteristic that the opinion No 1/2011 of the Personal Data Protection Authority, relating to tax confidentiality, which in point 9 states: ‘The tax data relating to legal persons do not constitute personal data, as is expressly apparent from the provisions of Articles 1 and 2 of Law 2472/1997’. I give the relevant opinion in the Minutes. Fourthly, the crucial issue of the disclosure of debtors' data, even if it is covered by tax confidentiality, is the existence of a provision of a formal law which provides for it and defines the conditions and conditions involved. This is also unanimously accepted by the Legal Council of the State by its opinion No 126/2012. This Opinion was drawn up in the light of the paper produced by the Section for Industry, Commerce, Crafts and Services, chaired by Mr Rothley (Netherlands — Various Interests). I give the relevant opinion in the Minutes. A little time, Mr. President. Thank you. Fifth point: It is clear from the above that there is no provision prohibiting the disclosure of data. But I shall refer to the specific law that the Minister used to hide behind him. The specific law is Law 3943, which obliges the Minister - Article 9 in conjunction with the POL to which he referred - to make the debtors public. What did the Minister tell us today? "But, after being regulated, I do not make them public." Why? Have you implemented the law before the arrangement? Did you make them public before, as the provision says? You didn't make it public. This is a violation of duty, Minister. Why does the law provide for you to make them public, as has happened in the past? Because the debtors must be made public, the arrangements must be made, the citizens must be informed of the relevant post who joined and who continue to be debtors, but they did not go to take advantage of a positive arrangement. I therefore think - and I am tabling in the Minutes - that the Minister of Finance's reply in 2012 to a question from Mr Riga, who, interpreting the law as he should, made the information public and sent it to the House. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Mr Minister, after everything Mr Koutsoukos and I have explained to you, we believe that you can no longer invoke any excuse. We need an answer. Since there is no legal issue, why do you continue to keep the elements of the seventy-seven-three-three-three-three-three-three? If you think this law prevents you, bring it in and change it. We believe, as Mr Koutsoukos said, that you personally have no reason. There is, in our view, not a single hint that there is a personal reason why you keep them secret. We wonder: Is it really worth it, Minister, to hide it, to create such a involvement and doubt for the citizens, who may imagine anything, according to what you have said, and not to bring the evidence to the House? Do it, as in previous times. Send the information to the relevant Committee on Parliamentary Control and to be able to know, even visually, each citizen's representative from the three hundred Members of Parliament. It would be an act that would create a better climate. If you do not do so, however, I think you are continuing in a dangerous shame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-five students and students and four educational sessions from the Kalambaki High School and Parentium Dramas. Guys, the House, as well as your fellow Member, Mr. Kyriazides, we welcome you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Beyalas, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u105	Why three minutes, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u106	Under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u107	From five minutes three? The previous parliamentarian had five?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u108	Three minutes and there will be a relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a question by Mr Koutsoukos, with which, as the Minister has said, they are returning to the subject. Reading it, I see that they refer to the fact that, on the basis of Law 3943/2011 and POOL 1185, this information had to be made public. I do not want to go into the essence of the matter because it is a finished story, it is a fait accompli. I am thinking of the reason why this topical question has been asked and which states that, on the basis of these articles of Law 3943 and of Poll 1185, it should be made public. We have heard these in a number of opinions, but at the end of the day they have again said that, under the POL and the law, they had to be made public, ignoring deliberately. I cannot understand - you, gentlemen, you are old parliamentary men and you have experience - because you insist so much, when L.3943 in Article 9 specifically states: "The elements of total outstanding public debts on all grounds, when they exceed the amount of EUR 150,000 per natural or legal person, shall be made public on the Ministry of Finance's website, if they are delayed over a period of longer than a year." But did you not see paragraph 2? He states: ‘The debts for which the debtor has been granted a partial debt payment facility shall be excluded for as long as the facility lasts and where the debtor is consistent with its terms and the debts for the payment of which he has been ordered to be suspended by a judicial decision’. Law, Athens 31 March 2011, the President of the Republic, the Ministers of Ragoussis, Venizelos, Diamantopoulou, Geroulanos, Papaconstantinou, Chrysochoidis, Kastanides, Pabukis. But, gentlemen, you yourself made this law and did it on your own grounds. And you're asking the Minister today to outlaw or do something different. I'm going to Paul's. It is also clear in Article 3 that it has the exceptions: 'From the regulation of the paragraph. Article 9 of Law No 3943/2011 excludes: The debts for which a partial payment facility has been granted or have been subject to a partial payment arrangement for late payment, for as long as the facility or arrangement lasts and where the debtor is consistent with the terms of validity.’ Athens, 1 September 2011, Evangelos Venizelos. Gentlemen, I cannot honestly understand what the reason for this obsession and your persistence is. You're really asking for the Minister to falsify. You can set yourself up with the questions, but also with the same instruments and laws that you have voted on. I cannot understand what the feasibility is and what the reason for this obsession is. Thank you very much, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, too. Mr Brutsis, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, as the political topical and urgent debate is running, you will allow me to make two introductory remarks before entering the point of view of the topical question. Yesterday the Bank of Greece's figures were published. Unfortunately, Minister, this evidence is a trick, it is a slap for SYRIZA and they confirm that SYRIZA equals poverty. And what do I mean? I am tabling on page 162, where the Bank of Greece clearly shows for the first time that in 2015 we had an increase in poverty, and especially in low incomes, by 8%, in a difference in 2014, where we had an increase in income of 9%, that is, about 20%. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, do you realize what is happening in Greek society? In 2014 there was an increase in income, we had passed over the previous years and society, even the poorest of it, saw an improvement in its income, while for the first time it was confirmed that in 2015 with SYRIZA and ANLE the poor became poorer. Two. Minister, as a tax minister I heard from the Government for the second time yesterday, but with clarity this time, say - the government - about farmers that the issue of taxation of their income is changing. It is revenue less costs, but gross revenues we will have a sum which will, first of all, include subsidies and, secondly, gross income income. If that happens, that is what I would like you to confirm today or not - you should not answer if you do not know, but my question needs to be made public - if the 27% contributions to farmers will eventually go on subsidies or if you stand out. The picture I have formulated is that it will go to the net result, which will be shaped after the income from subsidies has been added. Watch out for it, because it's a very serious matter. Thirdly, with regard to the topical and urgent question. I will simply say to you that the Members of the Democratic Alliance are right. You have nothing to fear personally. You will simply do what you have to do and you will publish the information, because above all it is transparency. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The answer you gave me is that they were at the moment given the legal procedure that you brought in 188.087.461.60 - they were given from fines and increments - in an unprecedented way, which also concerns tax violations, and you know that this has never been done in the past. To give information about which companies have benefited from your provision over 1,000,000 is not bad. It contributes to democracy and transparency. I would remind you, however, that we under the November 2014 law - which you undermined and told the world not to come to pay, while stressing at that time that you will be in sedition with our own law - had not put in a hundred doses to 1,000,000 or more. We had arranged for the millionaires to go under normal procedures and nothing to spare. So on that basis I would like to tell you this further. I've said many times that the hundred doses have become fiasco. And they became a fiasco, Minister, for the Greeks in the sense that you deceived them. When you brought your own law for the hundred instalments, it had a interest rate of 0.5%, and after continuous amendments and changes of the law, you reached it at 5.05%, when our law was 4,05%! Furthermore, in the insurance funds - perhaps even in taxes - who regulates how many doses it will be, it is done arbitrarily because it has not been determined objectively. I would also like to make a point here. Based on the details of the arrangements, the insurance funds from the seventy-four thousand sixty-sixty-nine cases under the law, already nine hundred and thirty-five went out, lost the arrangement, precisely because of your unreliability and the continuous change in the arrangement, which was completely different when it came and completely different now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr Brutsi. The Parliamentary Representative for the People's Liberation - Golden Dawn, Mr Karakostas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. The subject of today's question is another demonstration of the deep corruption of the state. And the question arises as to what the main cause of state corruption is. The number one cause of state corruption is, of course, the establishment of the party state over decades. And this is the case, provocative and outrageous: for the majority of our citizens to be demanded of tough sacrifices and for our people to be charged with unjustly tax-free measures so that the hard party state and its members can maintain their prerogatives. Around this deeply corrupt party state has set up the various scientists, who have exploited one single element: the party. The party, which spread like a disease in every area of the state organization, acting unintentionally, in the light of the enrichment of its executives and loyal friends. Today's question to the Minister of Finance of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government's Minister of Finance concerns actions which conceal the debtors' figures of more than EUR 150,000 and of a great debtors over EUR 1 000 000, to which, in fact, some of their debts have been written off and, furthermore, have been included in laws regulating their instalments. In full knowledge of the fact that the public and the banks create a suffocating cord around the neck of a ordinary citizen, for debts of a few hundred or thousands of euros, one wonders how they managed to get to a point where millions of euros were owed to the public and even the state rewarded them by declaring part of them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The answer is clear: the party state is the largest thief in the public, because this has shaped the spirit of immunity and impunity. Without the slightest doubt, the government's surpluses are the party friends of the governments and parties, which the state itself illegally covered, by shifting their tax burdens to the backs of consequent taxpayers. For the debt of a few hundred euros, free professionals are unable to obtain the necessary tax information. So how does it happen today that there are millions of euro debtors who normally continue their business? It is obvious that these people have been and continue to benefit from the provocative favor of the party state, with consequences, which are burdening society as a whole and other taxpayers. If the state were not guilty, as an accomplice to this theft, then it had to do the following: turn against its officials, who helped to shape this situation. Coloured businessman 1.5m euros. Why did the state not invite the curator to ask him how, sir, he has come to owe EUR 1.5 million and how does he normally continue his business to date? It makes it clear that where the immunity of an entrepreneur arises, there is the corruption of one or more government officials who, in fact, hold high-paid positions of responsibility. So why does the state, which acts as a punisher of ordinary citizens, not control the property situation of the head of the DUs to which the great-great ones belong? In this way the post-population state has been built up by the long-term rulers of the New Democracy and PASOK. In this deeply corrupt state, however, the current rulings of SYRIZA and ANEL were also trained. The first, of SYRIZA, as a scoundrel of the past PASOK, and the second, of the ANELs, as the illegitimate children of the New Democracy. Of course, no one can and should not expect political cleansing of the party state by the current government. And of course, who would have been naive enough to expect social justice from a government whose most eminent executives forget to declare millions of euros in the 'before time', while remaining unpunished and continuing to force the Greek people in the abyss of memoranda? To conclude, the achievement of economic consolidation and social justice requires a necessary treaty: the collapse of the party state and the construction of a worthwhile, honest and socially just national state. This, however, is a work that only the Golden Dawn Association can accomplish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u114	Thank you. Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u115	Thank you. Mr President, I should like to remind the Minister present that when this regulation was being discussed, this legislative initiative by the Government, the JRC described it as'scanning regulation', in the context of a deeply anti-grassed, tax system, in the context of a deeply anti-grassy, tax raid you had carried out against the populace. And then the Minister who was in your place, Mrs Valavani, was indulging us on her historic path and that we are not respecting her. However, the question, Mr Minister - and at that time we have raised the point - is to give us concrete information: who benefited from the specific regulation and legislative act that followed it and what amounts? If things did not have a trigger smell, if they were not a scandal, then you had absolutely nothing to fear. Because clean sky lightning is not afraid, Minister. Do not hide, as you are doing today, behind the provisions of a specific legislative framework. New Democracy and PASOK have shaped it and you keep it. If you wanted to do something different, you had the opportunity to change it. You cannot play Pontius Pilate, as you do with farmers and prosecutions. We had tabled an amendment as a party to abolish the persecution of farmers. No offense. You could have changed the provisions that you say have tied you to. Because, at the bottom of the script, the specific legal framework, which becomes elastic to always serve the interests of economic oligarchy, pluralism, in conjunction with anonymity and confidentiality, forms the framework in which, under which all 'flowers' of interoperability and corruption can and can be developed and developed. That is why I should like to remind you again, Minister, that we as a party have repeatedly proposed - and we have proposed - to abolish anonymity in shares, to abolish the various secrets, which in essence, as confidentiality, protect the capitalists. But, just as you, as a follower of the unpopular class policies of the New Democracy and PASOK, maintain this specific legal framework, which makes it possible for this rotten, barbaric and exploitive system to continue its operation. The problem, Minister, is precisely the capitalist system: it is the capitalists, industrialists, bankers and shipowners who are also the predators of the socially produced wealth. They are those who, in his name, acquire even greater, unscrupulous riches, corrupt and exploit their links with the urban political system, but also with the urban state. That's the problem. And you're part of it, not against this particular rotten political and economic, social system. As a JRC, we are saying very clearly, Mr Minister, that you have no legal obligation to make the names, which have benefited from - the big business groups, the big capitalists - out of this regulation and with what amounts, when you are preparing a new tax law, which is just as unpopular and which will affect people's incomes, while maintaining the scandalous tax exemptions to the large capital in full: armamental, banking and industrial. From this point of view, we once again emphasise the need to make all this public and not to hide behind a specific legal framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr Theocharis, the party's parliamentary representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government systematically deceives the House. The day before yesterday you exceeded every limit with the scandalous change in the provision, introducing a new tier: the administrative secretaries. You don't see anything before. And, of course, it doesn't give us any impression that the Ministry refuses to provide evidence of the great ones who joined the regulation of Law4321. We have our own experience of the difficulty with which the Ministry gives information to the National Representation. She doesn't respect her. Already from 27-315 with a question and request for a document to be lodged with the then Minister, I had requested that the House be given the status of debtors who made use of the so-called 'exchange regulation' of 4320, on the basis of the provisions of Article 9 of Law 3943/11. I would like to remind you that this regulation for the first time has not entered a ceiling of the wrongdoing. In the debate itself on this regulation on 18-315 in this Chamber I asked you to bring the list of the great-minded ones before voting on the relevant provision. You know who could be subject to them. I have never received an answer to either request. From the Ministry of Finance they have not answered a number of questions we have asked on several occasions. May I remind you of the role and the fees of Counsellor Kim? In other cases, there has been a refusal to provide information, such as the information we have requested - and I mentioned before - by the HFSF on the report that accepted the increases in share capital at these degrading prices. I understand that the government does not want to talk, of course, about the issues of fiscal policy, as performance in this area too is at least a deficit. We increased VAT, but the discrepancies between 2014 and the original budget of '15 are huge, 610 million euros compared with '14. EUR 3.4 billion was worse in 1915 than in the original budget, although VAT increased and this whole tax policy entered. So this tax policy, this incompetence, the fact that you brought back the recession, is also why you cannot close the assessment. Isn't that right? You bring new measures that you can't take anymore and you can't close the evaluation. Of course, the results are discouraged at the forefront of time. The new due date is EUR 13.5 billion, when old dues have only been reduced by EUR 2 billion. Over 85 billion of the total debt. You told us that by these arrangements - you have brought so many regulations - you would have reduced it, you would not even let it grow. And yet, it increased more. You raised two billion, increased by 13.5. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Multi-advertised arrangements did not bring back the economy and help the weak. Of course, we have to admit that they helped some people. They helped football team owners - as it was then heard - to save half of the 25 million they owed. They may have helped a big businessman who, after paying for the "express regulation", then made his marriage in Italy, obviously won by the Treasury. Give the evidence, Minister. There's no need to hide unless it's the list of your political friends and funding, unless we have the list of Borgians and Alexiadis. Give it up, because otherwise you're accountable. Change the law, if that's it. But you have no reason to hide. You are giving 0.70 minutes, as Mrs Valavani had told us, for every 1 euro you receive. It is therefore ineffective and charitable to regulate this. And obviously the people who set up and paid so easily, how did the tax not chase them to get that money? The worst performance, therefore, of every other year - I am closing with this, Mr President - is proof that the problem of overtaxation has not been solved, nor has there been any reopening of the economy. Unfortunately, this government proves every day that it does not have the ability to get the country out of the vortex in which it is put. As the Bank of Greece's report shows, it is the government of poverty, and it is the government of increasing poverty. Lie, you're hiding, you're ruining. Give the evidence or you're accountable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, too. Mr Kammenos, Parliamentary Representative of the ANELs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. This question uses an extremely interesting verb, the verb'regulates'. To begin with with the arrangements of the noble colleagues of PASOK and of the New Democracy. They regulated ‘SIEMENS’. They've adjusted, he says, the hatred. How did they set them up? They were taken to their parties, as they have also been denounced in the courts and then regulated the debts of "SIEMENS", which are still irregulated. They regulated the public debt extremely, with 212 billion Greek bonds, which returned to English law and the banks of the lenders' friends were extremely regulated. They configured the armaments mixes. Mr Samaras managed and took EUR 17 or 18 million from Canda and from various others whose names I do not remember, from the mediators of PASOK. They went into an account, but we never found the misagent. We found what was left. I mean, we're talking about settings. The verb is extremely interesting. However, they did not regulate the debts of the parties. But they regulated the Greek economy extremely well. How? GDP loss 62 billion. Measures implemented by PASOK - New Democracy 58.4 billion. The 3⁄4 PASOK, New Democracy since 2012. They arranged the deposits from 230 billion to 123 billion. Today you want our 30 or 40 billion to be ours? Of the 111, 112 billion, 80 to 90 billion lost deposits were settled by PASOK and New Democracy. They've had a great deal of regulation for the banks. Loss of shares in the Financial Stability Fund 30 billion in March 2015 and 25,2 billion in value loss of shares and holdings of the Financial Stability Fund in the banks by PASOK and New Democracy. Excellent arrangement. They've set the lists, the elbows, Lagard, Borgians, we saw the other day, Liechtenstein. It was all set. They brought them to us, because this verb was the favourite verb of the PASOK and New Democracy coexistence, and in earlier years, they destroyed the Greek economy when they commanded and ruled this country. They've regulated state advertising. Excellent arrangement. They said "you give there, there," they made the soma, divisions, additions, removals, adjusted state advertising. We've lived up to parties. Mr. Theocharis was Secretary General. Did he set an income? I will now come to what has been settled and what has not been adjusted. Then Mr. Theocharis was released. Didn't something work out or set him up, 'cause he got it all worked out well? Because Mr. Theocharis was in the government of New Democracy. They've adjusted the release warranties. Did they regulate the fines of the National Broadcasting Council? We are fighting here, but I am controlling Mr Alexiadis. I've got him here in the House every week. Note the arrangements of the PASOK and of the New Democracy concerning Mr Theocharis, who was in the revenues. For the fines of the National Broadcasting Council to all the media, the Minister informed me. And I have no reason to believe him. I asked for the names of the channels, but did not give them to me, saying that by law we should not give them up, and I replied that I am not interested in the names at this stage. In 2010 the fines were a hundred and eighteen, the 2,755 million fine certificate, the collection of 1,872 million. We miss 882 grand. In 2011 the fines were at 30, the certificate at 2,612 million, the collection at 1,722 million. We miss 890 grand. I inspire all the missing things. In 2012 the fines were a hundred and twenty-four, the certificate at 2,855 million and we received 1,083 million. Impacted 1,771 million. We arrived at divine 2013. There must have been something magical. The algorithm here is 222222 something. In 2013, the National Broadcasting Council has a fine of 8 million. Why is that? What did the channels say and imposed 8 million fines on the National Broadcasting Council with a government of New Democracy and PASOK in 2013? How much did they receive from the 8,133 million? They received 1.870 million. We're missing 6.262 million. Excellent arrangement. This regulation is to the benefit of the Greek State. In 2014 there are 1,305 million missing, the table is also in the Minutes. In other words, regarding the fines of the media, the regulation of the New Democracy and of the PASOK was not to collect 11,100 million. By who? From the media that brought us to the House, with all due respect, Mr. Karras, who is excellent, and Mr. Leventis and Mr. Theocharis, who were given him with 17% before he had a party. You have arranged these instruments excellently. Congratulations. You have also left TV advertising tax unregulated by the media, which owes 20 million. Total inconvenience from the National Council for Television and Television Advertising Tax: 34.052 million. Excellent arrangement. To thank you for the arrangements. I also have unregulated debts on income, VAT and on payroll tax. Do you want me to give you those too? Give it up, what'd you set up? It's all refreshable. They amount to 11,600 million in VAT, 2,600 million in income tax, 6,200 million employees tax and 15 million in television advertising tax. This is all unregulated and is only tax debts that have not been collected. They're not even set. I mean, your verb is excellent, but it doesn't work when you rule. You want to check if it works when we govern the verb, only to do it with the National Broadcasting Council. I have a supplementary proposal for the rest to come, too, unregulated. You destroyed the Greek economy and dismantled the insurance system. That is an excellent arrangement: ten, fifteen minus eight hundred insurance contributions. Eight billion less insurance contributions. You've set up the economy. PSI? Fifteen hundred sixty. We've arranged that, too. I show that you have arranged and destroyed our arrangements in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Cammane, finish it up. You spoke more than anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u121	And we were accused of one-sided action. When we brought hundreds of doses, as far as I remember as a new Member of Parliament, what we were listening to when we put people in the doses and companies and natural persons, what categories we had heard, I didn't believe it. We have arranged - the figures are clear - and there were 756 million euros, 0.03% more than a million and 99% participation, five with five and a half billion and companies have been put in place to regulate, because they had been deregulation, as I have shown before, by you. I ask that there is a wisdom, that we do not forget what we have done and try to make creative control of the government, ask us some nice questions about what else we have to collect from what you have not been able to collect and regulate what you did not regulate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr. Cammene. Of course, you spoke a little bit longer. Mr Karras, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to speak from my position. The question of the Members of the Democratic Alliance I would be willing to sign it. What for? Because ponding waters are trying to upset them. The fact is that neither the National Representation nor the Greek people in general have been informed of what is happening with delayed debts, whether they are real, whether they are deleted, whether there is a possibility of recovery, or whether there are impressions that it is some huge sums that the state can collect. In fact, however, the act of legislation which refers to the question and to the law which has ratified it raises questions. Why wasn't there a cap on the debts that could be adjusted? The hundred doses, as they have been introduced, by definition by their number, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, lead to a lack of recovery. Because the poor boy, the young man who owes five, ten, three thousand, is going to give the hundred doses slowly, slowly, from his posture. The one who owes a lot of money what he's gonna do? It will go on to get an insurance record, tax information and then create another company, another activity, take a new tax record and bid farewell to the old debt with honor, if you want me to say so, Mr President. I would like to say something else, however, which really saddened me this morning. In the Committee on Public Administration and Justice we received a visit of colleagues from the Dutch Parliament. In fact, it was the Committee on European Affairs of the Dutch Parliament and it was intergrouping. We had an interesting dialogue. Of course, there were not many shocks from the way our strict European colleagues put on the issue with regard to Greece. But what did it sound like, Mr President? What did you-- he says-- with the Lagard list? And this, while we were trying to raise the issue of immigration and refugee, to see the views. The Netherlands has been presided over by the European Union this half-yearly period, and I must say that colleagues from the Committee of the Netherlands and especially the representative of Christian Democracy asked the question of the Lagard list, which means that conservative Europe expects to hear something from us. Looks like she hasn't heard. Speaking to committee, I have asked for these issues to be disconnected, as was said, with the implementation of the memorandum and the undertaking and with further commitments from our country. Some such hints have been heard, without, of course, being obvious, but we understand what they want to say in other words. We have tried, and in particular I have spoken, to disconnect this. I didn't see a response. So I ask the Minister present, Mr Alexiadis: will there be a development? There are lists, circulating lists. I won't name them. I won't tell who the good guys are, what the bad guys are. I won't say if within the Lagard list there are tax-raisers or if there are honest men who have declared their incomes and have legitimately moved their money. I won't say all that. However, I will say one thing: we see an inertia, an inactivity in this matter, which, whether it is incapable of the Greek Government to deal with it, or which is inappropriate not to deal with it. And I conclude by saying this: in the earlier legislations, which I had reacted to the attempt of Mr Alexiadis to step up the limitation of public rights, we saw that there was a limitation and was voted on by Parliament. But once they have been voted on - we are five months in Parliament, we are no longer - we have had the claim that we have had the extension of the limitation, that at least one briefing of the House has been given that this provision that has been passed has moved something. Why? The tension is spreading, the rumour is all falsified and the government doesn't dare reveal it. It is not only due to the present government, but also to the previous ones, that is the famous concept of increasing the property of the tax code. Mr Alexiadis knows what I'm talking about. There are conflicting decisions of the administrative appeals. Let the Council of State resolve this issue once. But, in order not to abuse any more time, I say only this: inactivity, inactivity. I do not want to repeat what a word of incompetence. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Carras. Mr Koutsoukos has the floor for five minutes under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. That Mr Alexiadis would say other words to be loved, as the government does systematically now a year in trying to hide this scandalous regulation and who benefited, I was sure. That he'd do the patronage he'd ask for, because he's an orphan, I didn't expect it. Why, what is the reality? The reality is that for a year now we have been trying to find out who has benefited from this regulation and for whom it has been done, the government is answering us that it cannot make public information. We have reached the point, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to point out to her the law which our own government has done, on the basis of which information is allowed to be disclosed. Could Mr Alexiadis also refer to the procedure for parliamentary control of his Ministry, which had answered a relevant question from Mr King and had made names public, in our own intervention as a PASOK parliamentary group, which we asked for the fifty-five thousand who made their money out and came here to Parliament, and did not seek excuses. Now what's he telling us? That the law that now imposes - because it has become the law of the state - publicises over EUR 150,000, except for those who have made arrangements. But it's obvious. When making adjustment is not included in this list. If Minister, you had done your duty and posted these lists to Genaris, Flevaris, March, April, today we would see who is not in it, so they have arranged it, and we would draw conclusions. You break the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and the Constitution. There is also an opinion from the Legal Council, as Mr Kegeroglu said, which says you need to let us know. And you are violating your duty to update the list of debtors with over 150,000 euros. You are making a double breach of duty and invoking this infringement to justify the non-publishing of names. And I regret that there are parliamentary representatives here who do not understand their role. I am not talking about those who are obscure and who are complementary to the government to become involved in power and are bringing us amendments here, so that the rules on public procurement do not apply to the award of public procurement and public works contracts. I am talking about the majority colleague, who should require transparency and publicity. And if a law isn't good, change it where you're a majority. That is your role, Mr Colleague, because you are dealing with the remnant of citizens. Mr. Alexiadis, Mr. Chakalotos will slowly not go to Grevenas or Elias, which is me. You should have taken the lead, just like we did. Because we managed to have this law, which imposes publicity and have names here in the House and broke the bank secret, and you did not vote for it. So don't look for pretexts. Minister, because you said you thought you wouldn't come, you were doing us a great favor. Have you realised you haven't answered our basic questions? The first was 31/3. Mr Varoufakis was Minister, Mr Chakalotos Deputy Minister. You didn't answer. At that time, we had not invoked the law that says the Treasury should make public information, because we did not imagine what kind of manipulation you would be doing to hide them. You were forced under pressure on 25/11 to tell us that at the end they were two hundred seventy those who used the order for over a million, 765.508.327 were their debts. In other words, the average was 2 835.216 and the figure was 188.087.461, i.e. an average, ladies and gentlemen, 696.620 for each of them. Do you understand that when we vote for arrangements that every day cut off from retired people 2% for care, 4% for care and the tampering breaks of an insurance and a tax? I did not want to generalize the debate, I did not want you to take the job elsewhere, because the deadlocks are obvious. I wanted to prove that this impossibility of the government to manage the critical situation in which the country is today and which leads it to a dead end, is combined with a policy of opacity and the service of specific interests. You have no reason to tell us who the two hundred seventy are. Look at the lists I gave you. They are inside OEM, OAE, they are different surnames, which have profits abroad and damage to Greece and I told you that they are "drink to the health of the suckler". Perhaps there may also be some of those who were on the lists that the honourable Member has said earlier, which is being discussed and who have taken advantage of the situation. Watch out for what the warning difference is. The warning difference is that for the first time fines and high tax evasion increments were deleted. No, i.e. the surcharge of the poor guy he couldn't pay was deleted. Fines and surcharges of great tax evasion you know who they have, Minister. At least you know it. That's who you favoured. Don't invoke any excuses. Tell us who the two hundred seventy who took advantage of this arrangement, for some of whom I suspect you did, otherwise you would have no reason to protect them until today, as you are, unfortunately, systematically doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u126	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have come to answer a question about the amount of public debts. There has been a great deal of talk and I will try to respond to that in the very short time that I have. You want to put time to get an image?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u128	Do you want five minutes? If you want more...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u129	She's fine. It'll be less. As far as I am concerned, first of all, this issue has been raised for farmers, here as an economist, and I am constantly taking lessons about the Constitution and about the laws. There has been something about farmers and subsidies. And because, Mr. Koutsouko, we have an unfinished discussion since 15/2, I'll come to Elia to see if you'll implement the unfinished business that we have...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u130	Now answer for the two hundred seventy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u131	We'll talk. Don't worry. I'm not afraid to go anywhere. I was near your homeland. I was in Bytina, the church, the operation, and I had no problem with either the world or anyone else. I will also come to Elias, to see if you will implement what you promised then, on 15/2, where you denounced us, because it was also heard by another on the subject of subsidies. And, of course, I do not have a requirement for Members - who have a very heavy duty - to monitor all legislative changes and provisions. But is it right to blame us on the question of farmers' subsidies? In legal, yes. Taxes change too much, but aren't you even watching the House? I have submitted in the minutes the answer from the Ministry of Finance on 28-5-2015 on the question of subsidies to farmers, in which you claimed that they were duty-free and that our government had taxed them, which clearly says in a question Member of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, signed by: "Before voting on the provisions of Law No.4328/2015, agricultural subsidies were all allocated to the calculation of income from agricultural business activity, since the original provision of Article 21 of Law No.4172/2013 was not excluded from the total revenue from the agricultural business activity. The promotion of the view that they are not explicitly included in the law, that they are taxed, legally unfounded’, etc. It is therefore a very clear answer to these issues. And in order not to insist too much on legal matters, I tell you that even if you lose your continuity of the laws, you need to keep an eye on what the ministers are answering in this House. However, in relation to the other tax policy issues and to the criticism I have heard from other Members, first of all, there is one opinion that the government does nothing, that it does nothing, that it does not do enough. I have said many times, I have submitted to Parliament whatever information was requested, I come and answer any questions and whenever you want, we can have a detailed debate either in the Committee on Economic Affairs or elsewhere, in order to show what was important in 2015 and we are doing in 2016 on these issues. As far as the Lagard list is concerned, there is no question of limitations. Recently, if you saw, a taxpayer who was checked for the Lagard list was not convinced of what you said about limitations and went and paid the 3.3m euros, which were confirmed to him after reviewing the independent Greek justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u132	He had a political dimension. Don't confuse it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u133	Whether there was a political issue or not, those who were charged with it politically and defended and covered it. They're looking out for them! But as far as the Lagard list is concerned, I never expect the political question that is above this Chamber to be answered, and no one has answered it: Who and why did he hide the Lagard list in 2010, 2011 and 2012? And on this subject we will hear whispers and whistles, but we will not get a political response, for well-known reasons. But because other things have been heard in relation to the performance of the Ministry of Finance, here we are forgetting the performance of others on a number of issues. When the time comes, we'll respond to these in detail. As far as this question is concerned, I would say again, is it understood, that we have nothing to fear and hide? We're publishing and giving evidence of everything. All the information on debts over EUR 150,000 will be made public immediately. We had to adopt the new decision for legal reasons I explained earlier. The question for those who denounce the government is why they did not call in November and December 2014 in an election period to make the debts of the Treasury public. Why the pressure now and not then? And for some people who are shouting and saying about lists and hundreds of doses, I don't understand, are we in favour of a hundred-dose solution? A great breath was given to the taxpayers, and we have explained too many times why we have done so. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President, and I'll be done. But I would like to close with the hefty characterisation that was heard - by a Member of Parliament, of course, who came here, said it here and stood up and left - to fund Alexiadis and Alexiadis lists. The only funding I'm looking for is the one to pay HNVIA to pay for the "Ark", which he doesn't have to pay, to pay the taxes to the "Smile of the Child" - and I am really ashamed of his tax burden - and a number of other things. For these donors, I'm looking for, yeah, to help these hungry people. I do not need any funding, nor do I have 'Alexiadis List'. Those on their backs with favourable tax arrangements and brought them to the House, to serve certain business interests, to take responsibility and come to the House to speak! In conclusion, I can assure you that all debts of more than EUR 150,000 are immediately made public, and that will have a permanent form, except of course, of what debts are regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much, too. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u135	Minister, you have just made the same mistake you made with the 270. You said that an MEP - leaving for everyone suspicions and poison - spoke about money laundering Alexiadis, etc. You were supposed to name it. Secondly, you referred to a regulation that falsifies money for taxseekers. Bring legislative initiative, remove regulation and take the money, or you're accountable. Otherwise you are 'cutters' that you dare not change such setting if there is and what it is. Name her and bring the setup. Otherwise you're with the interests you imply. We're coming to see the Lagard list you referred to. We didn't say anything about the Lagard list because we expect you to tell us how many you've checked because in 2015 you probably checked much less than the previous leadership had checked. Thirdly, the PASOK, which was responsible for the Treasury until 2012, in addition to the adoption of the Law on the posting of debtors' names over 150,000, has applied precisely and consistently, in addition to the breaking of banking secrecy, which has not been voted on by the party that has appointed you to the Government, except for everything you know very well that it has been done at that time for the benefit of tax justice, is now coming to ask for something simple that has to do with transparency. You cannot hide transparency from Parliament - we have substantiated it from you - even if you call for a law. The next article says that it does not have to be made public when it comes to the arrangement. Excluded. But you have not implemented the previous one saying that you should have posted it. How did you know that there are more than a million grandchildren to make this arrangement? Where did you know? In a moment, did you get the idea? Some of you have been disturbed, and some of you would probably see from the books, from the restaurants and the computer record. Why didn't you post them? Does the violation of duty before the PPP lift your responsibilities by voting for the PPP? No, of course not. Even now, give the evidence to the House. Don't cover them. We told you that under no circumstances do we believe you have any personal reason. There's no need. After all, because you invoked his law otherwise "bad" Venizelos, why don't you change him? Why don't you change him if you don't apply him? Failure of a Member State to fulfil its obligations — Failure to transpose, within the prescribed period, Council Directive 92/81/EEC on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to restrictions on So say that for any reason if they were not made public before, they are not excluded from disclosure even regulated. This is a good management of the thing. This could be a transparency decision, but you do not have the political will to implement it. In any case, I repeat that the right of the Member to parliamentary scrutiny to have access to data is a constitutional right and has nothing to do with any laws relating to disclosure. You therefore have to do so, and there is no law that prohibits it, otherwise you can invoke it as a way of excluding parliamentary control, the access of the Member to information without being made public. You're violating a duty you don't carry out. You must send the information to the relevant parliamentary control office and those Members who want to know the names. Otherwise you're violating a 259 duty. I don't think you deserve that responsibility. Mr President, I have to say once again on a subject that Mr Alexiadis mentioned between cheese and pear, which he did not raise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u136	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u137	He said about the farmers' tax. Look, the relevant article of Law 4172 said - and says - 'in income derived from agricultural business'. The subsequent interpretations that bear a date of June 15, after the Balabani law was passed, are on your government. So the fact that an income is not explicitly excluded does not mean that it is, when it is quite clear - and in economic terms, do not confuse them - the wording 'what comes from rural business'. They're not in these subsidies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] But, in any case, why do you fortify behind this? Another question was raised by the Parliamentary spokesman who raised the matter. They didn't put it on our resignation. Will it be on the total taxable income to which subsidies include the percentage of insurance contributions?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u138	Please finish, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President, and we look forward to the Minister's positive response to the data being made available to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u142	The Rules of Procedure do not provide for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u143	You gave me three minutes of speaking while others gave five, such as Mr Kegeroglu and Mr Theocharis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u144	As far as you asked, I gave you. If you asked for more, I'd give you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u145	I didn't ask before. I would like, please, to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u146	I did not say no to you. Don't tell me that. It is not foreseen, but in any case, exceptionally, I will give it to you. However, it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Deal? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. I won't be long. Two - three specific things I want to say. It is clear that Law 4172/2013 included all revenues of all kinds, subsidies, allowances. This was made clear in May of '15, which imposed a tax on EUR 12 000 on subsidies and exemptions for allowances. As regards what the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative said about what is going to happen, I have to say: let them not be rushed. The Prime Minister's commitment is that small and medium-sized agricultural incomes will be alleviated. But let's not rush, see how it's going to be shaped in the next period. I could not understand the following: The first law to regulate the hundreds of doses was made in 2014 by the New Democracy, but because he was also awkward, he did not "walk". It did not have the expected revenue or flexibility. Here comes L.4321, who was favourable to all those who had to. And it is not possible to say that increments are deleted, because increments were deleted throughout the length and width of the citizens of taxpayers who had to. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] And the deletions had to do according to the rate of doses. In other words, one is surprised to hear the self-determination of those who either supported some things or created some laws, such as Law 3943 and Pol.1185, and did not respond to the exceptions to which this law himself refers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u148	Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u149	In conclusion, I would like to say that it takes a lot of nerve to talk in here about secret evidence scandals, about underground government relations. That's nerve!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, then I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u151	Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u152	And there's really a lot of nerve to say about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u155	As an exception, the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman asked for the floor and I gave it to him, but we can't go into a circle...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u156	I agree with you, Mr. President, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u157	If you want, because we're moving right now on the special, we'll agree to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, I am entitled to two minutes' tripartite speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u159	No, there isn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u160	How isn't there? I have a teratomy for two minutes. And you didn't give me the word to give SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u161	You don't have a tritomy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u162	We're the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u163	Only Mr. Koutsoukos, under the Rules of Procedure, can speak, Mr. Kegeroglu. That's the Rules of Procedure. If we all agree here that you should speak for one minute without asking for another reason, then we should agree. Otherwise, we should apply the Rules of Procedure and give the floor to Mr Koutsouko.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u164	We did not protest, Mr President, but after the denial of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative you should also give us the floor. We're the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u165	I said: if we agree. We are moving to an out-of-region field. Here, Mr Kutsukouko, you have the floor under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u166	I'm in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u167	I would like the floor for thirty seconds, if I may.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u168	Look, if everyone asks and then Mr. Kegeroglu asks again, you understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u169	I'm not asking why. I'm staying in the Rules of Procedure. I'm not asking him. By removing the right to tritology, I'm not asking him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u171	I think we should all observe the Rules of Procedure. The majority colleague, the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, did not understand that we are exercising parliamentary control and we are asking. He does not have to try to cover the Minister's weakness because, as Mr Kegeroglu explained, if he does not want to apply the provisions of the law that we have invoked, it could change them. This does not relieve him of the breach of duty for the fact that the names have so far not been made public. And much more, Mr President, I would like to point out to the Bureau that in the relevant parliamentary committee, the names of taxpayers had been known in the past. This, Mr Alexiadis, will not be avoided. That is what we are asking, Mr President, and we will also take the floor to the Bureau to say the government's responsibilities in relation to the Constitution and its obligations towards parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u173	Mr Carras, I will be sorry, because I also regretted Mr Brutsi before, who also asked for the floor and was not given to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u174	I'd like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u175	You can ask the Minister privately. In accordance with Rule 134(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the MP of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR Mr Ioannis Koutsoukouou to the Minister of Finance, on the refusal of the Treasury to reveal the grandeurs over EUR 1 million who were integrated by the instrument of legislative content in the regulation of 100 instalments. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 17 December 2015 have been distributed and the House is asking whether they have been ratified.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u176	The minutes of Thursday 17 December 2015 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-26-S1-commons.u177	With the consent of the House at 13.13 p.m. the sitting is closed for Monday, 29 February 2016 at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
