ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's approval from 25-5-2016, PLB's minutes were confirmed by the Bureau at its meetings of Wednesday 25 May 2016 with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Consolidation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the mutual establishment of Cultural Centres and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing Friday 27 May 2016's topical Questions Release. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 896/23-5-2016 was raised by MP Pireias of New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the progress of the audit of the participants in the tender for the recruitment of five-year-old Mortalities Firefighters. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 901/24-5-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the problems of issuing visas for Russian tourists. 3. The 902/24-5-2016 topical question by Z' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the problems of crops from rainfall in Thessaly. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 897/23-5-2016 by MP Achaias of New Democracy Mr Andreas Katsaniotis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the intentions of the Ministry to restore the Patras Scientific Park under the supervision of the Institute of Technology and Research. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 891/23-5-2016, a topical question by the Independent MP II of Athens Mr. Efstathiou (Stathi) Panagouli to the Minister of State, on the "private promotion of specific MPs and journalists from private and state channels". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday (Eves) Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health about the problems in the operation of the surgical institutions of the Eleusina General Hospital of Thriasio.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 892/23-5-2016 of the First Cycle of the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition of the Radical Left, Ilias Kamaterou, to the Minister of Finance, on the increase in starting prices for beach auctions in Kos. Mr. Kamaterre, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u4	Minister, I'm sorry to see you here again. This is the first question I ask as a Member of Parliament after the September elections. I know and appreciate your work. I am pleased, however, that we are here to resolve - I believe in the best way - a problem that has been created, and that is about the start-up prices for auctions that will be made these days. The deadline for the municipalities to give the situation expires on 31st of the month. I mean, we don't have many days. In Kos they've multiplyed. Already last year, they were doubled. This year in some cases - it has various categories - it has been multiplied. We must bear in mind that on the island of Kos last summer - we all know the images - the beaches were filled with refugees and immigrants because there was no reception centre at that time. There are responsibilities, but let us not open this debate. But the situation was that. The beaches did not work because they were on them refugees and immigrants. Nevertheless, those who had them to manage them are indebted to pay. And I say they're indebted because they haven't paid them yet because of this situation. More generally, the shops did not work because we had in August - imagine - up to eight thousand, nine thousand refugees and immigrants in the city of Kos. We also have additions to the "all inclusive" which is a negative model of developing tourism that we have in Kos, which was keeping - and because of the refugee - tourists in and out of the streets. The damage is more general in the stores. But right now we're talking about the beaches. I consider it unacceptable that these increases should be made here. These increases were made by the Regional Department of the Aegean Public Property Management. They didn't happen in other areas. In fact, there have been reductions in some. I wrote a memorandum to the Secretariat-General. The move made by the General Secretariat is that it sent this memorandum to the Regional Directorate to take it into account. I think that's not enough. I don't know if they've got results. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done, Mr. President. Please, Minister, take care of this. If they have not taken into account the record, I think you should be imposed - you have the right - so that they do not suffer this great injustice because they are desperate and will not use the beaches this year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u5	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, Mr Ephremidis, with your question you will allow me to say a few words about what we are trying to do through the use of public property throughout Greece. All over Greece, then, whether it is public property, beaches, or any other public property, we are trying best to make use of this property and put aside pathogens and other situations of the past which, instead of leading to the use of this property, have led some to become richer. These things we want to stop happening. As regards what you have asked, and because you said "I am sorry", I should like to tell you not to be upset, because what you have done for the Dodecanese area and the pressures you have exerted on the Ministry and the meetings that we have had and the meetings, are much more. Of course, they cannot be depicted practically or in anything else. But it is my duty to say that despite the fact that we belong in the same political area, you have often put too much pressure on these issues. And you do well, because you represent these citizens. The answer given to us by the relevant address - I shall put it in the Minutes to inform the House and to have full information - is that in relation to the other Aegean regions and the Dodecanese region, the area of Kos has - in the view of the service - relatively small or any other realistic valuation of its price for these beaches. The table I have in my hands says on the island of Kos the minimum price is 15 euros and the maximum 20 euros. It is the price per square metre where umbrellas and sunbeds are rented. So the average price in Kos is 17,5 euros, in Rhodes €21.1, in Karpathos €13.4, in Kalymnos €12.9. And they mention the example of Chios, which is an island that probably has a greater refugee flow, but smaller revenues from tourism in relation to Kos, where the average price is 15.8. They also mention other islands. Naxos is €29.6 in Paros €35.8 in Mykonos €50. The Office's view is that this price is realistic and corresponds to the island's tourist value, reduced according to the refugee flows. What I can assure you is that we are looking at as political leadership how we can intervene in order to provide a solution and not, of course, impose on businesses and regions that currently want aid and not a tax burden.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u8	Minister, after what you transferred to me, what the Services told you, I am very concerned. So please take the matter seriously, because the comparative information they have is unacceptable. They compare Psarro of Mykonos to the beach in Kos where refugees were - if possible! - and in the areas, the others did not get any increases. But even if we assume that Kos was below and we need to increase it, we don't have to do it now. It's not the time to make these increases in Kos. I told you they doubled last year. Please have to intervene immediately. And on that occasion, we should finally understand islandity. Thank you for saying that we are 'fighting' and so on. You're one of the few who've understood islandity and we're in a direction to try some bills to get through some things. But not everyone understands that. I will mention the statement made yesterday by Mr Kammenos, who said that there are even certain unconstitutional arrangements - namely VAT - for the islands. I, although I disagree with Mr Kammenos most of the time and much more then with Mr Mouszala's case, in this case I fully agree with him. I may not have used the term 'criminal' for voting on the abolition of VAT on the islands, but it is unacceptable. It was one, two elements that existed for the recognition of islands, and we abolished that. We know how it happened, we know under what pressure it was made, we know the pressure of the lenders and we know that whatever government they were - and the previous ones, etc. - he would have had to abolish it. In fact, we managed to do it gradually, and until then we are trying to see what is going to happen. But let me finish by unconstitutionalism: Article 101 of the Constitution clearly states that every piece of legislation must take into account what impact it will have on the islands. They do not know, Minister, nor do my ministers seem to me this article. There is, meanwhile, and the subsequent law that determines how the bills will be passed by Parliament and how they will take into account islandity. Unfortunately, I have also seen in committee and in plenary that when Isle of Inner Members rise to raise these problems, the other Members are also being sanitary, many times, considering that we are trying as parliamentarians in our region, by addressing our voters, to win votes and to have privileges for our region. At some point we need to understand what islands are like. I will ask the President of Parliament to hold a special meeting. It is no coincidence that this article was introduced in the Constitution. It is no coincidence that the European Union has directives, regardless of whether there was a insistence on the abolition of reduced VAT rates on the islands. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude with this: is it constitutional that the student should not have education on the small island, why are they two children who end primary bad - badly and have no place to go to high school? Is it constitutional that someone else dies on the little island, why doesn't he have a doctor? Watch out, no health center, no doctor! Is it constitutional that he can't travel but he has to do a week so he can go to a neighboring island?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u10	I'm done, Mr. President. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u11	No, I mean you've expanded beyond the subject of your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u12	No, it has something to do with it. What we are talking about here, about the beaches, about islands and you must understand that it is not all the islands themselves. It is not Psarro of Mykonos the same as the beach in Kefalos, Kos, where the old lady or old lady sits there, trying to get any piece of tourists who don't come out of the "all inclusive". Please, Minister, take immediate action because the reactions are already great and will be greater - and rightly so - and I will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u13	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u14	Mr Colleagues, you are absolutely right about what you say about islands and I cannot add anything else. Over the past few days - two days in the Committee on Economic Affairs and in plenary - I think that all the arguments have been put forward, the political account that has led us to vote on these provisions. And it is good to not only stand up to the content of the provisions, but also to what follows, because all the following things would not have been done if these provisions had not been passed. And they understand - I think now - that all the pressures that the Greek Government has accepted were to vote much worse. I say that for some people who blame us even for what has been voted on. But I think that is something that will concern us in the political dialogue in the next few years. It won't be solved now. The contents of your question are very clear. I said the connecting elements that the Agency has given us and said there will be intervention from the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance to see how this will be rationalised. Because we understand that we cannot on the islands, which together with Thrace are the country's Thermopylia in many areas, add problems rather than solve problems. I don't have to add anything else to island issues. What you need to know is that we are working too many solutions to tax support for the islands in terms of taxation, not with a reasonable pre-election, but with a reasonable implementation of what we have said in the July agreement, where it is very clear what needs to be done on the islands. It's registered and this is the guide that the government follows. In relation to VAT, I think that no one in this Chamber supported this increase. Let me remind you, however, that we were obliged to do so, because we had before us Law No.4336 and Law No.4334, which were passed by two hundred and twenty-nine Members respectively, laws which bound us to the subject of VAT on the islands. We have made a choice not to charge the islands that are on our eastern borders and the islands that accept refugee flows. The other category of islands has necessarily been selected and I think that the argument has been tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, too. We continue with the twelfth under number 858/12-5-2016 a topical question from the F Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the PASOK-Dimitrios Kremastinos to the Minister of Finance on the collapse of the economy of the Dodecanese. Now, if I say about the collapse in relation to other regions, Mr Cameroon will say that I am ironing islands. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, Mr Minister, I would like to disagree with what you said earlier about VAT and its vote, because quite simply both in the first and second memorandums, there is an obligation to accept an equalisation of VAT on the islands, namely an increase in VAT on the substance. And then the law of law never came to the parliament. In fact, for national reasons, I myself, with my interventions and the then President of the Republic, asked that the law applicable to the House should not come. Consequently, since it was both in the first and second memorandums, how is it possible to put it in the third and to implement it already? That is the reality of VAT. However, it is not just VAT, it is also the levying of the night's charge, it is also the discount on the prices of alcoholic beverages which generally make the island region uncompetitive on the opposite coast, on the Turkish coast, where there are interests - if you like - of the Member States of the European Union, because there are companies which have these complexes and which have every reason to reduce the tourism of the islands. And the constitutional legislature when it says that the joint legislator must provide for the development of the islands in every law - and especially those laws - does not say it to favour islanders, but rather to favour the border. These populations if they do not have biopolitics to survive, they will leave the islands, they will emigrate and we will have a huge problem even nationally. The other cannot sit on a rocket above and cannot live. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So the risk of non-implementation of the constitutional law is enormous. In my opinion, as in the first and second memorandums, it never came into force, should not now be implemented law, even if the troika required it. It was already required by the first Memorandum. Consequently, the following issue should be raised in my opinion, Mr Minister: it may be more generally violated by the Constitution and effectively abolishing the Greek state, because - if you like - Brussels is asking to be violated, because that is what this is about...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u17	You have a dentistry, Mr. Kremastine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. We have a violation of the constitution against the country's national economy. It is not a matter of local Members - as my friend, Mr Camamatos, said - who are going to take a few votes. That's not the point. It's a big deal. Of course, I have to say that the last person in charge is you personally, who know how much I appreciate you and I love you. The government, however, has a responsibility and must see this as the other governments have seen in the first and second memorandums.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u19	The speech is made by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Treasury Alexiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, Mr Cremastine, the responsibilities of governance are collective and I have the percentage of my responsibility as a member of the government. But very clearly on the question of the burdens that we have had to impose on the Dodecanese region and the rest of the country we have explained the road map that has led us there. There are different political assessments. Some say we shouldn't have the first or second meter, we should have the third one, the second one. Others say we shouldn't have these measures or others say we shouldn't have any deal and everyone's filing his political account. In this respect, however, I think we cannot have a detailed debate during a timely question. With regard to the specifics you ask in your question, which had been tabled before the bill passed on Sunday in the House, the 50% reduction in the tax on alcohol in the Dodecanese is actually abolished, but ethyl alcohol intended for the manufacture of ouzo, tsipouro and tsikoudia is excluded and a night-time charge is imposed on hotels, not only in the Dodecanese, but everywhere, from 1-1-2018. These are the specific arrangements that have entered the bill through the political scene, through the political framework, which has been analysed many times in the past days here. I will submit to you documents and the Indirect Taxation Application Directorate and the Special Taxation and VAT Directorate and the Tax Policy Directorate related to your question, not to waste time and to be informed in detail. However, as far as the application of the VAT Implementing Act is concerned, we consider that the country should be consistent with the agreement made by Law No.4334 and Law No.4336, precisely to lead us to the next steps, as we have led to these steps. There may, of course, be different political assessments. What I would like to assure you, like the previous Member, is that the government is doing everything possible in the context in which it is moving and the next time specifically on the issues of the islands, as we are obliged to do under Law 4334, as we are obliged by the Constitution and as we are obliged to do with the citizens of the islands. It is not our political choice that we have to do for the islands or for the rest of Greece, especially for the islands, especially the small ones, because the people are guarding them. We are, however, forced to do so. It is not our political choice, it is our political necessity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u21	F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Kremastinos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u22	The question is exactly what the government will do about these issues. So, he's gonna leave it the way it is today? Will it say in Brussels that our Constitution is being violated on these issues and therefore has to be reviewed? These are the questions. In particular, when we saw, on television, the Minister of National Defence, who supports and participates in the government, saying that it is not just an anti-constitutional thing that has been done, but also a criminal for the islands. The word 'criminal' is not a simple word. I, too, believe that since justice is still working in this country, this provision will soon be overturned as an anti-constitutional one, so you will find it difficult to re-form it. Because it is not possible for the Council of State to exist and not to see what is self-evident. These regions, the island regions, contribute from the first to the increase, if you like, of the country's income, I mean what you receive your own funds. So if they're not competitive, it'll fall - if you want - and the level of your receipts. So it's not that simple. And you should not see it - not personally, the government - as a matter of provincial, local, island, parliamentary, as you would like to say. It's a national matter. Of course, I would expect - I repeat you represent the government, but the main political lever is to comment on this. Is that a criminal decision? So said the Minister of National Defence, who voted not only the law but also his constitutionality. For here the issue of unconstitutionality was raised by the MPs. So since it was criminal and since it was an anti-constitutional part of the bill - because that is what we are talking about, we are not talking about the legislation in question - how is it possible to tell television these things and at night to do other things in this House? I think the government should give an answer to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u23	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u24	I will agree with you on the matter of self-evidentness you have said about the national issue. I have nothing to add to that, despite my agreement. It is certainly also in our first priority and, more generally, in Parliament, how to deal with island issues, especially the problems faced by small islands. Clearly, I cannot comment on statements by other Ministers and indeed within the House. These are issues at government level and everyone is responsible for what he says. The government, through a specific argument and through a specific political reasoning, tabled this bill and passed these measures. We have explained - and the Prime Minister and the Ministers themselves - how we led here and whether we had any choice. With regard to the restoration measures on the islands, however, I have said before that we are looking at specific measures to remedy the problems of the islands from these tax arrangements. We are not currently in a position, for good reasons, to make this clear. The next time, however, these will appear, to see how we can lighten the islands, especially the islands of the Dodecanese and the islands on our eastern borders, with these issues. Now, as far as constitutional issues are concerned, Mr Papoutsis, I cannot take a position. It is now a matter of the competent courts. I respect all views, but that is where all these issues will be decided.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 17th Municipal School of Nice. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are going to the second with number 888/21-5-2016 timely question of the first cycle of the Athens MP Mr. Konstantinos Hatzidakis to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the living conditions of refugees - migrants in Greek. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this question always remains timely, even though it has been postponed twice because you had other obligations. Fifteen days later, the problem remains the same and even more pressing, both for refugees and immigrants who have been accumulated in the facilities of the Greek and the residents. It's a camp in an urban area with no minimum hygiene conditions. Does a member of the opposition say so? Oh, no. The Athens Medical Association itself notes this, with a statement a few days ago, following the death of a 17-year-old. All mayors of the region note this by pointing out the dangers for the inhabitants of the surrounding municipalities. And I think you've admitted it and I'm sure you'll admit it too. The question is, Minister. Because, according to various reports I have here, including a press release of 16 December, a meeting was held and there was assurance from the government that the whole matter will end in three months, that is, by the middle of March. We are at the end of May and the problem persists and is exacerbated. There are statements by the Humanitarian Government. I don't want to question your humanism. But I think that this humanism begins and disappears in things because of the situation, which has been shaped and which outweighs all imagination. Questions are therefore very clear. One is: How do you picture the situation today? Do you think it's controlled? How many people are stacked in these facilities? The second question is: Do you have any specific plan? Are there any specific timetables, Minister? How will you deal with this major issue, which - I think - concerns not only the residents of the surrounding regions, but every Greek and every human being? Because it is indeed a matter of humanity, but, of course, its management is also an issue of effectiveness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u27	The Minister has the floor for a maximum of three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Hatzidakis, thank you for your tolerance I missed twice. I was in Europe, as I had informed you, to unsuccessful obligations. I respect this House very much so that I am gone without good reason. I fully understand your question, although it is well known that I will see in it some "exceedings" for opposition reasons. I'll tell you right from the start that the conditions in the Greek are not good. They're not inappropriate, but they're not good. They are not what we should have for refugees and immigrants and they should also have. I will also accept that I have violated twice the agreement I made with "ELLENIKI S.A." in relation to the time that will remain there. These are objective events that you rightly point out. You forget to point out two things. One is that if the agreement was broken, it is because after the illegal closure of the border by the Visegrad countries, suddenly within twenty days, fifty-five thousand people were trapped in our country who had to find shelter somewhere just so they wouldn't go back to the squares, so we don't have problems, which you know and which you certainly agree with me. The second fact you forget is that in Germany, a country with such a powerful state mechanism, with such experience in these things, there are still refugees and immigrants staying on the ground. The third point I would like to remind you is that the SYRIZA Government has not found a single place of hospitality. We found two and a half thousand places in pre-repeal centres - which were very useful - but not a single accommodation. We managed within two and a half months to create forty thousand clips, temporary hospitality places. We are ending today with Idomen, which was a wound for our country and for the refugees. Our immediate priority now is the Greek. You are right, therefore, that the Greek must be closed. It's our priority right now. We gave Idomen priority. We are currently preparing facilities in Athens, where we have known mayor's efforts to send them to a adjoining municipality. I want to assure you, without being able to tell you clearly in the days, that the Greek will not be filled in the summer. The Greek, ever since Idomeni ends, is our first priority in Attica. The balance of rights which can preserve the order, security and freedom of both sides will be served on refugees and residents. You're not right about health. We have a recent report from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention - the US CARBON, which is one of the strictest - where it makes a number of comments to us, but gives us credit for managing fifty-five thousand people without health problems. The death of the seventeen-year-old was caused by a chronic heart disease - it was here before the professor - who she neither knew. There are problems with cleanliness, but we can solve them. There are problems in feeding, we solve them. But many times you fall, and we ourselves fall, victims of misinformation. I want to tell you there was a report that they were doing a hunger strike in the Greek and that we have a gastroenteritis epidemic. There was nothing like that. We called the journalists, a protest was being prepared for this thing - not on your side, but on the CERCA - and it was a false post. I think we should better control things. Like also the prostitution of a minor is false. There was a sexual harassment the police are investigating. I never exclude petty crime in these structures, but this is happening worldwide. It's important if the police are guarding it. The police are on a 24-hour basis, they are very tired people, trying to do their job well. I could make this or the other complaint, but through a great thank you for the help it provides and support. The prospect is that, Mr Hatzidakis, that is to say, to end the Greek now that we are done with Idomeni. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Hatzidakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u30	Minister, I always try not to be a politician of exaggerations. What I said did not say because I have the illusion that the government will fall through this question. This is because I am also truly concerned as a Member of Parliament, if you like, about transferring things to me by mayors and residents of the region. I have specific evidence here with me. I have a letter from CEDEFOP to all involved about the risks to the health of refugees and the local population since 11 March 2016. I have with me a letter from the mayors around the region since April 18, 2016, expressing a very great concern about how the problem is evolving. I have a statement from the Athens Medical Association, your colleagues, since 20 April 2016 entitled "Rifferent public health issues due to inadequate health management". Mostly I have a letter from April 7, 2016, from the "Greek S.A.", signed by Mrs Sultana Spyropoulou, President and Managing Director of the "Greek S.A.". Mrs Sultana Spyropoulou has not been placed by the previous government, but by your own government. In its letter to Mr Kourublis and to other Ministers, it notes that "the situation in the above-issued facilities, i.e. the Greek but also their surroundings, has become uncontrolled and poses serious risks to all the parties involved, since some six thousand refugees have been transferred far beyond the number committed by the Ministry to carry, but, above all, it goes beyond the objective possibilities of hosting the plant, and has been able to observe extreme and particularly dangerous situations". That's not what Hatzidakis says, but Mrs. Spyropoulou. So let us not try to deactivate the situation either one of us. The situation, as shown by all the descriptions, is dramatic. The question, Minister, and here I would like a clear answer, is what will be the next moves? Because if the issue remains, as it comes in the summer, so many people stacked in enclosed spaces are evident - you know it better than me, because you are a doctor - that we may have literally situations beyond any fantasy. What's your plan? Because, in this House, the fact that we have been late for so long has obviously had consequences for many different kinds of species both in the local economy and in the image of the country and, of course, in the railways. All the profits of TRAINOSE were lost - 2.5 million a year - the profits of TRAINOSE - because this line had been closed for about seventy days, while it appeared from interventions by the government itself that it could open. Because you opened it yourself and then left and closed again. However, I am not standing here on this matter because I believe that the Greek issue, as it is, is a much more serious issue, and I want you to describe what the next moves of the government will be, what the government's plan is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u31	Because he didn't open up earlier, Mr. Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u32	No, about the Greek, I say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u34	Mr Hatzidakis, I think we will not have to talk about the Greek at next session, as we are not talking about Idomen. Idomen is closed. The Greek will close. In your view, with a delay, in my view - and this is historically proof of Idomen - ever a situation like Idolatry in the world has not been dealt with so early. It is a scientific analysis of what I do, it has no political or party purpose. For the health management and the objections of Mrs Spyropoulou you are right, there are. I'm not saying you're giving false evidence of a passion. Everyone else, I fully respect the way you manage and the questions and the answers and your political career. What I'm saying is that, although these things are written, we haven't had any evidence of epidemiology, of a health crisis or anything else, which means that the situation is not uncontrolled, it is controlled. For a long time? I hope it's over, and I hope it's over quickly. Also, let me tell you that in Greek what Mrs. Spyropoulou writes is that we had to open the arrivals and actually reached six thousand people, just came this huge wave that was trapped. From then on, there are three thousand six hundred. The thousand five hundred of them were installed elsewhere. We're building spaces in Attica. The Greek is a priority and the Greek will be closed. I can't tell you in time. I would like to tell you, however, that it is a priority and you have the experience that when I say something, it usually happens, unless something happens, a new outcome or something that one cannot predict. These are our next moves. Empty the Greek. Evacuate quietly, peacefully and go to better spaces than the ones they are. I would therefore like to believe that after some time - not a little while, but not a long time - your question will have no reason to ask anyone else and we will both be happy about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u35	Thank you too, Minister. We will now discuss the second question by number 893/23-5-2016 of the second question by the MP of Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the schedule of payments of direct payments to farmers who objected or are subject to controls. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, the fronts in the agricultural sector are many open and open. That's why there's a lot of questions. I say this because you wondered last time, saying that we are asking you a lot of things under parliamentary control. In order to be clear, therefore, it has remained unanswered since our previous debate, which has even become more blurred since Mr Bolaris and Mrs Manolakos had a debate on the issue of the possibility of appealing from producers who have been wronged, on definitive rights. At some point you need to make it clear. I don't know if you're ready today. You said that there would be this possibility, without setting time, while Mr Bollaris said - to inform you completely - that there is no, but that there is an opportunity to submit a request to the European Union. Of course, the issue has also been raised with the eligibility of pasture. I will submit to you in the Minutes today's publication, according to which we have between 20% and 80% reduction in eligibility in the areas of Heraklion, to see how the Ministry tackles this issue. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The question concerns a specific issue, namely the subsidies for the year that passed. In particular, they have raised objections from farmers who have not received any subsidies or received reduced subsidies - they are a large number - and of course they are the seventy thousand farmers who are in the control sample. The question, then, is: When will the objections be dealt with? When will these people be paid and, of course, when will those who are in control be paid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to answer first of all that the problems you are referring to were not the result of our own decisions, for the simple reason that we did not take decisions on how to allocate rights. For the allocation of the definitive basic payment entitlements, OPEKEPE initiated in the specific regulatory frameworks provided for in the new CAP, which you accepted. We are obliged, in order to implement, to work within these regulatory frameworks. Because of this implementation, therefore, there has been a large volume of requests to revise the provisional rights of the basic payment, issued in December 2015 again - I repeat - on the basis of the data provided for in the relevant Regulation. Many requests for the correction of applications for the single payment of 2015 were submitted, objections to the eligibility of agricultural parcels, as well as to the results of remote sensing checks and regionalisation. These requests are still under control, as are the requests made by the farmers, especially those that meet the criteria of the active farmer. They will have been examined and paid, if justified, by 30-6-2016, which is the final date for payments of the aid for 2015, as defined - again I repeat - by national and European legislation. For the other part that you have put forward and which concerns the objections to the results, I have already told you again that only for major reasons can they be submitted and, of course, if we accept these reasons, we will appeal to the relevant European Commission bodies to ask us to allow us to proceed with the examination. It is no different, that is the regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the regulatory framework applies to the whole of the European Union, not only to Greece. So we need to look at the problems caused by the distorting application of the regulatory framework in principle and of course the problems that are caused, because the Rules of Procedure have not taken into account the particularities of our country. There are two categories of problems. However, there are problems of incorrect application of the Rules of Procedure, and you need to see this. You must tell us a certain time in which they will be able to submit the objections and, if they stand, there will be a similar response from the Ministry. But tell us, for example, are they submitted to the regional management or the producer group or to the associations? Where are they submitted and when about the final rights? Of course, it is also the issue of pastures. Look at it, because it's too serious. Because I mention it today, I do not ask you to answer if you have not considered it. I have asked you a written question. It is, however, very serious and appropriate attention must be paid to the Ministry. Families are being destroyed, unnecessarily reduced incomes are being lost. I am therefore waiting for your answer on where and when they can apply for definitive rights. Of course, about the issue you said, the payment of all those who have raised objections to the 2014 subsidy, which you said would be paid in June, tell us whether this payment will include the seventy thousand in control. It is a clarification we are asking for. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u41	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, you said that there were problems with the distorted application and the content of the Rules of Procedure. I'm taking this into account. The question is - and you have to understand - that this application of the Rules of Procedure - you say your opinion, I say mine, do you know what the result has been? For the first time, our country has not had any financial corrections. I really do not understand why you do not take this into account when a 3 billion-dollar procedure is being imposed in our country on charging and financial corrections. We have overcome this problem for 2015. From there on, we'll see all the problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u43	What are you talking about? You're slaughtering them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u44	There is a final date for the IACC declarations which are 15 June. You can understand that from there on, to come and claim that I have been rejected, etc., can't be. At some point, we need to get a class. So until that date, anyone who has a major reason to invoke something should do so. And, of course, we - I repeat - gather all these things together and take them in another direction to obtain their approval. That's the process. From there on, pasture themes will discuss them, because they are important issues and especially in Crete you know how the distribution took place last year to allow for more selectivity. It is a big problem and the problem of pastures is not simply solved for the simple reason, as I said to you, and I repeat, it takes 315 million. It can't be done. We need to put these things in order, and that's what we're trying to do. From there on, each one will be judged at some point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u45	Thank you for keeping both time. We go to the 15th, with number 881/17-5-2016, a topical question from the Z' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the payment of compensation to tree farmers in Larissa for their production destroyed by a recent frost. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. This question concerns the huge problem that arose for the tree farmers of Larissa Prefecture, namely the areas of the Municipality of Tirnavos and the wider area of Tirnavos and the Municipality of Agias, as the frost, which occurred in March, caused great damage resulting in loss of production. In fact, in some cases the damage touches 100% of production and concerns peaches, pears, apricots and grapes in the Municipality of Tirnavos and cherries in the municipality of Agias. Similar problems are known to exist in other regions of the country, Macedonia, Thrace. So the crop disasters will cause a great deal of loss in this year's income of farmers in the region, even though their incomes are constantly falling due to the European Union's anti-agricultural policies and, of course, within the framework of the Common Agricultural Policy and over time the policies of all governments with wild taxation, the carpeting in ELGA, IACS etc. Fairly, therefore, the farmers in the region in the face of this dramatic situation claim the immediate valuation of the damages suffered by all the crops of the recent glacier, and the fair compensation for 100% of their damage, while demanding that the compensation due to the ELGA be paid immediately, from the quartzfall in March 2015 again in Tyrnavo. Then the hailstorm was about Tyrnavo. At the same time, they formulate and claim, like all farmers throughout the territory, the change in the rules of the ELGA in order to compensate farmers and farmers for all the damage caused to production but also to capital, since the ELGA does not guarantee agricultural insurance, but in substance also puts an obstacle to the right to compensation for the producers affected. Therefore, the question to the Minister, Mr President, is how directly the assessments will be made and, of course, the compensation to 100% of the farmers affected will be made for the damages suffered, the compensation due to the quarantine in 2015 and, of course, as far as the ELGA is concerned, the change in the regulation to cover and compensate the crops, farmers, which are being destroyed either from weather or from sickness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u47	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u48	Mr Colleague, for the previous damages caused by various causes, and I refer to the damages in 2015, compensation of around EUR 8 000 000 has been paid to the Regional Unit of Larissa, while in the Municipality of Tirnavos, around EUR 2.6 million has been paid separately. Especially for the municipalities of Tirnavos and Agias, over 70% of the compensation has been paid. The balance will be paid in a short time, essentially by the end of June. Now, the process will be completed in 2016. I am referring to the old damage. I now come to the recent, where in fact from the geotechnics of ELGA, with the checks carried out, damage to various tree crops in the areas of Municipalities of Tirnavos and Agias from the glacier that occurred at the end of March 2016. In respect of these damages, disclosures were made. The work of assessments will begin later, when a first assessment process is completed, in order to verify accurately the size of the damage and therefore the percentage of the damage, which under the ELGA Regulation, can be compensated. In addition, there has been a reduction in production on various tree crops - peaches - in the specific areas, especially Tyrnavos and Agias, and according to the labels of the specialists - technology is the approach, to clarify it - because of the causes which the ELGA plant-producer regulation cannot cover. In particular, there's a wrist. In this context, we are starting the process - it takes time for this process - to see how we can make use of the remaining tools, whether they concern de minimis, either the MAGPs, or a debate that has now begun in the European Commission, which concerns the effects of climate change, particularly climate change, on agriculture. As far as the MAGPs are concerned, you know there is a process where, not only does it want to have damages from natural disasters, but there is a specific damage threshold. And there, you realize that we will have problems, because it definitely wants a 30% damage to be found in similar species in regional unity. We will also see it in relation to how great the damage is and in relation to the average yield in previous years. In my dentistry, I will answer for the rest of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u49	Please, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will give you one element: according to the rural clubs of the villages of the Municipality of Agias - and I am talking specifically about the production of cherry, which is more tangible - the damage rate exceeds 95% in the early variety and crop that farmers were supposed to receive. Of course, the corresponding, analogous percentage is also apparent in the latents. Specifically, if an average average of average production or even large was six tons per year in good weather, they now rounded up a hundred and fifty with two hundred pounds of cherries. In fact, many of the farmers left them in trees, because the harvest costs were too expensive and would not even cover the cost of harvesting the cherries by selling the cherries, not production. Therefore, the frost was the main cause of non-frozenness. Perhaps the technocrats have also tabled a different view of the problem. But look, ELGA doesn't agree that the main cause was the frost. Secondly, the result is, of course, that the producers affected are not compensated, even though the low temperatures are recorded. For there were also these objections, that low temperatures were not demonstrated, but low temperatures were recorded both in Tirnavos and in Tirnavos - very below zero, minus one, minus two, minus three in particular in the area of Agias - from meteorological cages and from private refrigeration systems. In both regions, both in Agias and in Tirnavo. As far as the compensation for the quarries you have said is concerned, you are also committed for the remaining 30%. Let us assume that by the end of June, as you said, the rest of the compensation for quarantine will be paid. And with this development, because of frost and on the basis of adverse weather conditions, it is once again clear how unprotected the farmers are from the state. It is obvious that the ELGA, although it receives huge sums from the premiums paid by farmers, does not only ensure agricultural insurance, but essentially puts an obstacle to the right to compensation for the producers affected. And, of course, I would like an answer here, because this was said at the meeting in Tyrnavos in the presence of the President of the ELGA. Does the State owe or owe the specific grant that has been legislated, institutionalised in ELGA for three years? Yes or no? I would like a clear answer from the Minister. What will happen, for example, with the problem that exists and with the assessments of damages on the part of the ELGA which cannot be done on time and as it should be, because of your policy - and I would refer you to the medium-term, memorandum, etc. - the necessary recruitments are not carried out so that there is a great shortage of staff, while the exits from the land to the land are very limited because of the drastic cuts in the funds earmarked for this operation? And in addition to the destruction of the part of production, as far as Tirnavos is concerned, which concerns peaches, nectarines, pears, as we have said, the grapes, etc., see: They compensate the grapes and the next pears, which have been frozen, do not compensate for them. Secondly, for peaches the early ones which are available, namely harvested and waiting for sale, do not exist on the market. And now, last year, you also signed wide, the new government, I mean Genaris, the embargo on Russia, which was a big market for the peach producers in our country, was absorbing large quantities of this product. At the moment, look, Mr President, irony, we declared Greece-Russia's year of friendship in 2016 and at the same time the embargo keeps well with Russia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u51	Mr Putin's on his way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u52	So, no doubt, in our view, the issue is a political one, it requires the government to make political decisions in order to compensate farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u53	The Minister must answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u54	I'm done, I'm done. And against this policy, we say that it is a one-way road for farmers to claim fair compensation for the disasters and, at the same time, to establish their attitude to the new conditions against the framework established by the new CFP and the anti-grassroots strategy of the European Union, the government and capital, since farmers now have rich experience of the struggles they have given in previous years, as recently against insurance and tax law, by gaining solidarity between the workers and all the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u55	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u56	Colleague, you may institutionally be able to participate in the ELGA premium, but so far this has not happened, let alone now, you are aware of the budgetary circumstances experienced by our country, such a possibility does not seem to exist in the near future. Nevertheless, the ELGA responds, even with a slight delay, to the obligations arising from the existing Regulation on compensation. I am telling you this because both estimates and procedures do not, at least until now, exceed 10 months, one year from the time the damage is being done until the payment takes place. That's very positive and let's see it. We are talking about the time when the damage occurs and not about the time when the harvest is being valued. It's completely different. But I would particularly like to focus on the debate that I have had. I met both the associations in the region and with local government and farmers. We have made an approach to this issue, in particular the fruiting matter, if we find a procedure like this so that we can cover all the loss of income that we have to make tomorrow - the day after tomorrow. However, do not forget one thing, that we are still talking about either a PES or a 'de minimis', and that will be from state resources and provided that a dossier is submitted to the European Commission for approval. We need to substantiate the specific costs. Now you have another approach on the issues of the functioning of the European Commission, the obligations, and so on. This is an extremely political issue, which cannot now be answered at the limits of parliamentary control, but is a basic prerequisite. You also know, ladies and gentlemen, that this has not happened any time in this country and that is why we are running to see what we are going to do with the recoverys, with the fines. It is therefore a process which, at least in the context of which we are operating today, cannot be avoided. Indeed, there is one problem, one need for ELGA to have bigger insurance cover. But you do understand that this cannot be done that easily. She needs a study. We need to see it from the outset, specifically and proportionately, in terms of the cost of additional premiums. Our wish, if we go well, to do so, because it is from the demand at this time that the establishment plan of the ELGA regulation be amended, so that we can deal with the problems that the rural area actually has on the issue of compensation and disasters in weather conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u57	The fourth question under number 894/23-5-2016 is the first-round question of the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis to the Ministers for Education, Research and Religious Affairs and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the problems of students in public and private IEK. Also, the first under number 889/21-5-2016 topical question of the Attica MP Mr. Mavroudi Voridis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the financing of the Foundation for the Children of "Pamakarist" is not discussed due to a blockade by the Deputy Minister of Ministers Mr. Fotios. Next, the fifteenth under number 873/16-5-2016, a topical question by MP Evros of the New Republic, Anastasios Purchas, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the timely spraying of mosquitoes. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor for two minutes. Because we're going well over time, please keep this going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the fight against mosquitos to deal with human health problems and the protection of animal and plant capital, the year after year must be abstract, constellation. The sprays have the region, whose programmes are dependent on the budget, the central government and its policies. Because of last year's reduced amounts and, above all, the unprecedented delay in their adoption, the confederation proved to be ineffective, as it actually seemed. The follicular, fat, dermatitis spread rapidly and we had the disasters that we all know and experienced. It is recalled that on the Turkish side there are large areas of rice zones, where from June to October there are steadfast waters, literally up to the knee. So the conditions for the occurrence of mosquitoes are ideal. They are spraying, Mr President, only in residential areas and are not working with us to tackle common problems. The countryside has not been left to mercy and, of course, the blood insects know no home. This has in many cases led Evros to be the most common pathway in Greece, but also in Europe, destructive zoonoses, transported and transmitted by blood-eater insects. Evros has inhabited areas, has the surrounding areas and has the semi-urban areas, all with their own characteristics, their own prevention needs, and different programs and instruments are needed. In northern Evro, the Ardas Orestiad and Eryropotamos of Dumouchos, in combination with the Tundza and Ergin by far, create ideal conditions for the creation of insect populations. Soil sprays must be assisted by extensive aerial sprays and - why not? - even with aircraft of the Pedgetel type, ideally affected areas with dense vegetation, woods and vegetation. Where terrestrial means cannot be accessed there, as we know, the harmful insects are reproduced. The region informs us, Minister, of the action plans and the fight against the whole problem, but these are not enough. Turkey's institutional local players don't cooperate, they don't care how to work with their Greek counterparts. That is why you ask: What action have you taken and will you take in the wider context of the confederation? What has been specifically planned for the introduction of zoonoses through blood insects from neighbouring countries? What discussions have you had with Turkey, Bulgaria and also centrally with the European Union? Are you studying the case of co-operation with the Air Force, to make use of the existing flying media of the Pedgetel type? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u59	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u60	Mr Colleague, the responsibility and responsibility of organising and carrying out the programmes for the fight against mosquitoes lies solely with the regional units and municipalities of the country. Of course, even perfect planning, actions in general for the protection of public health, is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and Social Solidarity and the supervised bodies. Nevertheless, because it is a matter of particular relevance to the rural area, as early as October 2015, we reminded the regional and local self-government of the country to be ready on our own side, as long as they send us the relevant programmes, we will proceed to ensure funding for the fight against mosquitoes. In March 2016, the Ministry issued a circular on the measures and instructions for Zika virus, transmitted through mosquitoes. A circular was subsequently published with the directives on the planning and implementation of the mosquito control programme by the regional and local authorities of the country. At the same time, the action plan for the treatment of malaria was updated, and the action plan for fur fever was adopted by us. You see, Mr President, we have a lot that threatens us. So, as every year and this year, a document has been sent to the competent services to provide us with the necessary information, i.e. the insectological data and actions through which we can deal with them, so that we can proceed with financing them. We have received the relevant answers from many regions and have already started approvals so that at least we can deal with the problem as quickly as possible. As far as the issue actually exists with Turkey is concerned, namely, the lack of agreement, that is what we are trying to resolve. A channel has already been opened, but I can't tell you any more. For this year, I don't see any specific results. For the rest to which you referred, I will tell you more in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Treasury, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u62	Thank you for the update. We hope this year for the good of Evros that there will be much more effective support for the region for the relevant sprays. The intense livestock activity of the county also determines the dual importance of consciousness. On the one hand, we must protect the human population, our people, and on the other hand take care of our livestock and herbal capital. That is why we consider it important for prevention to be passed at a later level. Bilateral agreements with Turkey and Bulgaria are primarily necessary. The first, as I mentioned in my protology, has ideal conditions for the creation of insect populations, due to the sturdy water of its rice zones. But also with Bulgaria, we share a border from Trilofos to Ormene. Both have a lack of prevention in the sprays, which also affects us. In particular, on the Turkish side - as you said before - indifference is characteristic. Bilateral agreements in this area are therefore necessary. Your ministry should officially inform the Foreign Minister, the Prime Minister of the country, that at their meetings with the Turkish leadership they should finally raise the whole issue of Evros. Spraying, flooding, zoonoses and other problems cannot be tolerated by the people of Evros, Minister. These should be, with regard to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, which are regularly their meetings, agenda issues. We must make bilateral agreements against this common evil, because it is a big problem. In addition, the prevention of the consequences of mosquitoes must be linked to research and education. There is already the Institute of Exotic Diseases, which, due to the recruitment clause, has never been able to function. Since 30-3-2016 I have asked you a written question with other colleagues from the constituencies in which problems with zoonoses have arisen. Unfortunately, however, you have not answered us. I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios (Tsos) Politics, presents the above-mentioned question in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And, of course, there is always my proposal to create a Veterinary School to meet the wider needs at national level with veterinarians. There are funding solutions for the creation and operation of a project, which is directly related to spraying and livestock farming. These two structures can act as official advisors to the state, but also at local level, on the issues that we are discussing - and not only - and can guarantee and encourage livestock activity. If you knew, Minister, as a farmer, that your livelihoods are at risk from the zoonoses coming from Turkey, would you make the creation of a herd? You wouldn't go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u63	Come on, Mr. Prisoner.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u64	I shall conclude, Mr President, in twenty seconds. As far as the financial needs are concerned, I was informed yesterday - staying in Serres - by my short-sighted Evrotite that local authorities have conducted thorough and effective management of mosquitoes, using European programmes. Why not look at this case as a possible best practice for adoption throughout the country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u65	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, I cannot disagree with what you have said, particularly with the need for joint action with neighbouring Turkey on flooding issues, on the issue of mosquitoes, which we are debating now, particularly on the major issue of zoonoses, which have unfortunately become a great plunder for our country. What I have to say to you is that the issues are being introduced and I am being given the opportunity to refer to a recent meeting with the Health Commissioner on a visit here, in which we asked him to do so - because, in particular, lumpy skin disease issues, all of those of the zoonoses concern the whole of the European Commission - to take some initiative for a consultation, for a joint action. We hope - we promised - that something will come out of this, because there is a great risk. From that point on, there is certainly also a need for special attention, as far as the preparations we are using are concerned, to deal with mosquito issues, topics of such an impact. Indeed, for the region of eastern Macedonia, Central Macedonia and others - Central Greece, Thessaly - which have a problem, it has been granted by the competent Department of our Ministry a larvae license for air larvae because you have referred to it. Such authorisations have also been granted for the use of biocidal products for application from the ground and also from the air to deal with these effects. In our country, in order to combat mosquito larvae, which particularly transmit malaria, like other mosquitoes, which transmit other diseases, there are specific preparations with active substance, which must be used in accordance with their approval and labelling, so that we do not have any other kind of problems. We need great attention, because we need to ensure that they are safe from being used. So all these preparations have - as I have told you - the approval of the Ministry of Health, because we have to take part in this process and we want to believe that this year in particular we will have faced, because in time we have started the process more effectively, at least all the problems arising from the mosquito epidemics and other insects.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u67	I inform the House that it is not debated because of an impediment by the Minister of Health, the fifth under number 869/16-5-2016, a topical question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Health, on problems in the health structures of Kefalonia and Ithaca. Nor is the second question under number 2808/1/93/10/2016 question and application for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the case of small Melina at the "Venezel Hospital" Heraklion. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-one students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Haidari School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The sixteenth question under number 882/17-5-2016 will be discussed in the context of a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Ministers for Rural Development, Food and Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the payment of compensation to farmers from the Municipality of Soufli of the Regional Unit of Evros due to the disasters in natural and animal capital since the floods of 2015. We're in the constellation of disasters today, as far as I can see!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u68	And there's more coming!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Delia, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is not the first time that the JRC has raised the issue of floods and the consequences, especially for farmers in the Prefecture of Evros. These floods in this region are now an annual repetitive phenomenon and their effects can vary, but they are important. In particular were the floods in January and February 2015, when serious damage to agricultural land occurred, flooded homes, and even villages were evacuated then, schools were not working and we had huge damage to infrastructure and animal capital. These floods were particularly destructive hits by farmers in the Municipality of Sufli, who were literally left without fields and without income. Approximately five thousand acres were destroyed by large breaches and lacquers. In other words, what remains on the bottom of a lake, when it dryes and resurrects of barren sand. In addition, a significant part of the irrigation and drainage network was destroyed. Despite the fact, Minister, sixteen months have passed, the farmers in this region have still not been compensated for the damage suffered since the floods in 2015. Their fields to a large extent remain still uncultivated today, as, as we have said, the fields themselves have suffered enormous damage. So they stayed without income. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. We ask you, Minister, if you can give an answer on how these people can live. Anyway, we are ending up asking what you will do to make the farmers concerned fully compensated. What will you do to restore all the disasters suffered by the irrigation and drainage network? What will you finally do, Minister, as a government and as a ministry to make the necessary flooding projects in this multi-faceted prefecture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u71	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u72	Mr Colleagues, the Evros region is indeed an area which is almost every year damaged by the floods. It is a huge problem, which must be dealt with jointly by Bulgaria, Turkey and Greece. Otherwise, all the interventions that we have been doing and healing the problem for a year, we find them in front of us again. So it's a more general issue. That is why I said earlier that, particularly because two countries are involved within the European Union - Bulgaria, Greece - the European Commission must also press, which we have called for, to deal with this particular problem together. From there on, in 2015, significant payments have been made in the Sufli area. At least from the evidence in front of me, I see that some EUR 5 million has been paid to the Municipality of Sufli for damages in early 2015. Will you tell me, does that solve the problem? These payments were made in accordance with the estimates and the possibility of regulation. But I repeat that this is a very big problem. The regulation has certain parameters, which we cannot overcome and I mean the payments of the ELGA. They're covered? Procedures are made and within a period of about one year, on average, payments are made. However, in the case of Evros - as we have said and discussed with them - we need to see how we can hamper RPAs, i.e. state aid. That is where we cannot get over the threshold, what we say is necessary for regional unity to have 30% damage so that we can achieve it. What we have here is to look at the de minimis process, which has to do with a loss of income so that we can partially satisfy the need. However, this procedure is a process which again goes through the approval of the European Commission. I think that's where we're going to have no problem. Perhaps we have a problem in budgetary capacity in terms of government budgets to meet specific needs. We will endeavour, we will specifically seek, in terms of the Ministry of Rural Development, to highlight this need as much as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u74	Minister, from your answer, in relation to the two issues I have raised, it appears that you have given some 5 million euros to the farmers of the Municipality of Sufli. We must, of course, say here that those who are most affected by these flooding phenomena are the poor and medium-sized farmers, who are particularly difficult to live during the damage period and are able to grow next year, which is not the case with the big farmers, who have the economic potential to overcome such problems, despite the damage they have. You said you gave five million euros to the Sufli area. I don't know if you mean a piece of the associated aid that some people have received, who have made it in mid-summer to sow cotton. I don't know if you mean that. What we know, however, is that the inhabitants of the region for the damage of 2015 have not received a single euro. We invite you here, too, to give the compensation. In relation to the projects which need to be done, we have heard from you again a wish that these flooding projects should be carried out. You know, in Evros, these wishes have been heard for decades now. Nothing has happened. Everyone has realised that such projects are not eligible for the European Union, so they are being mobilized, and that is why the damages each year are even greater than last year. I would like to remind you here that, in addition to the floods of 2015, on 18 January 2016, there is still a flood, which particularly affects the area from Soufli, Cornoflia in particular, to the Twinbot, where we have relapsed the damage, with even greater damage to the drainage networks. In a question we tabled as a JRC on 13 February, the Ministry replied to us that ELGA would take all the necessary steps to compensate farmers in full for the damage. I have to tell you that little of these things have moved forward. Even the farmers who are now cultivating certain fields are having trouble irrigating these fields, because - as you can see - what is left as a field after water fleeing is not so easy to cultivate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To close, Mr Minister, that is to say, that it is 'wrongly the vine', that is to say, the anti-agricultural policy - yours and the common agricultural policy of the European Union - in this area every year, 'he eats it and the donkey' - whether it is the floods of Evros or the hail that fell a month ago. We have tabled a relevant question. And it seems that the farmers are becoming increasingly aware of it, the only solution for them is to unite, organize and claim their right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u75	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u76	I am not going to question the possibility of farmers. It is good for farmers who are mobilising and claiming. From the result, perhaps their mobilizations are the ones that help them most. But what I want to say is that, within the budgetary conditions we are experiencing, we are trying as hard to deal with the problems as we did, for example, last year with the consequences that we had when the dams broke, after the many floods that hit the region, and so we made available a credit, according to the possibility we had. Now you will ask me if the problem with 200,000 euros is solved, which has been given to repair the damage caused by the floods. As far as the possibilities are concerned, something has been done that has actually helped to give this year an extra possibility, I would say, for farmers to grow. For example, you ignore that we have made a great effort to make the Sugar Industry work in Orestiad and to be able to carry out the work. We're fighting it. And this year we also have the agreement that we made with Piraeus Bank, so that it can work again in Orestiada. You realise that all this is within the framework of helping the space. So within the possibilities of the ELGA and the financial possibilities that our country has, we will try to deal with the problems as far as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u77	Thank you both for the presence and the respect of time. We go to the fifth under No. 887/20-5-2016 timely question of the First Cycle of the Member of the Independent Greeks, Vassilis Kossilis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the delay in the adoption of a joint ministerial decision, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 11 of Article 42 of Law 4280/2014 (VAT 1559A), thus causing serious problems for farmers who have the use of brown parcels or for those who wish to exercise the relevant right. Mr. Red has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, as you well know, Article 38 of Law 4280/2014 provides: ‘In brown parcels situated in public forests and woodlands or in municipal or kept forestry areas, with more than five decayed or non-standard trees, the right to use these forests only to permanent residents of the relevant OTAs and, as a matter of priority, to professional farmers or farmers’.’ The beneficiary takes care of the brown trees, vaccinations, cleansing of wild vegetation and everything that has to do with a prefecture act. Furthermore, in accordance with Article 42 of that law, it is laid down that by joint decision of the Ministers for the Environment, Energy and Climate Change and Economics the maximum area of the concession area, the type of concession, the beneficiaries, etc. is defined. Subsequently, the Directorate-General for Development and Forest Protection informed all decentralised administrations that a draft joint ministerial decision is to be drawn up. You are currently asking whether it is in your plans to adopt the common Ministerial Decision immediately, since it employs too many farmers and farmers, who will have the right to use only these public areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u79	You're welcome. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, you know that I share your legitimate concern and interest in a product which is currently very important to our country, the chestnuts. Already in December, with our 6588 decision, published in the FEK on 28 December 2015, most of the issues that you raise in your question have already been answered, because we have this general decision, which we provide all these valuable elements. It's not just the chestnuts. Everything is mentioned, the order of preference, the conditions, the supporting documents and all the opinions required so that a resident can use this valuable resource. Of course, we are in a phase and almost completed last October a plan specifically for chestnuts, because chestnuts are a wild tree, and perhaps it takes more specialisation, without that being the case for concessionaires to collect chestnuts at the moment. However, there are two important parameters that have not been included and which we are trying to include. One is the very important issue of Dryocosmuskuriphilus parasite, the so-called chestnut wedge, which came from China. At the moment, it has destructive effects where this insect went, and already in Italy 70% of production has been destroyed. That is why the Italians, who had a great deal of power, are starting to buy chestnuts from the Greek market. So this bug in Greece has already been observed recently. So we need to step up our efforts and this needs to be included in the CSCE, so that these concessionaires have something to do with this protection procedure. We have already planned to disburse EUR 840 857,16 precisely for antiparasit's manufacturing activity, which is also an insect, and of course another EUR 539,493 to place them. The second issue, which was missing and must be incorporated - and we are in a phase of integration, so that I believe in a few weeks, before the new period, that we have the CSM, to which you refer - is that biodiversity must be protected. Greece has some pure chestnut genotypes that need to be protected in special nurseries, so that they do not suffer from other species. Already, with data from the European Union, published since 2005, the Greek chestnut is the richest stock of genotype in Europe. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude with a phrase, Mr President. Therefore, these elements must be included so that concessionaires too have their responsibility to protect the species, from insects and from genetic mercenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as far as I'm concerned, the version of the FYA depends on the anti-parasit, you said, and biodiversity, on taking responsibility, and on concessionaires. If you can, I would like in time, and always in cooperation with the decentralised administrations, to provide for the adoption of the joint ministerial decision in the face of chestnuts, which, as you said, is a very important product for Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u83	We also thank you for your time-consciousness, Mr. Red. Mr. Chironis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u84	We believe that in the next few weeks, with these two very important issues, KYA will be completed, and I think that certainly before the summer and, most certainly, before the new period for the collection of chestnuts, KYA will be ready. From what the Services have told me, they think it's a matter of a few weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u85	Good. So the chestnuts will come out of the fire in a few weeks! Next is the sixth question (No. 862/13-5-2016) by MP II of Athens, Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the undue delay in the recognition of professional qualifications in Engineering TEI due to the failure to adopt the proposed presidential decrees. Mr. Carra, here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your presence. It is clear that the establishment of TEIs in 1984 provided for two initiatives. One was that the TEIs and their departments, the framework of studies and the length of the courses and the graduation of the first students would have been issued presidential decrees setting out their professional rights. Since 1984, there have been dozens of departments in the TEIs with individual engineering skills - I am referring to them at the moment - who have graduated. We are referring to a number of at least forty thousand graduates throughout this period. Unfortunately, however, those presidential decrees were not issued, which would determine their professional rights. Some efforts were made in the 1990s, which, unfortunately, were incomplete. The Council of State intervened and annulled a party. But then with requests for interest, Mr President, Minister, the Greek State has been convicted. It has also been established by a decision of the Full Court of State in 2005 that the non-issuance of the Presidential Decrees on the Enforcement of Occupational Rights constitutes a failure to act. This omission of action is prejudicial to the Minister of Education - I say that he is the Prime Minister under the law, because the decrees are adopted on a proposal from the Minister of Education and the competent authority, if they are engineers, obviously the Minister of IGC - but from 2005 until now there is no compliance with the adoption of these regulations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. I will note that we have repeated decisions by the Council of State - up to 2016 - that judge the state's silence illegally. In this sense, therefore, I would ask the Minister to respond - in the Ministry's capacity - to the intentions - when and how he will determine the professional rights of these graduates, who, on note, enter with the ticket examinations at the higher schools and have the expectation that after their graduation they will be able to do so. I would like to say, Mr President, that my question does not seek to obtain rights of a graduate in polytechnics, where we have five or six years of study, but to identify their professional rights on the basis of the level of study which they have undergone and the length of study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u87	Madam Minister, here you are, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr. Carras, for the question. It is a question that is very important, to see that forty years we have one of the many problems that afflict this society and they do not find a solution. I would, of course, like you to allow me here to say that a Minister, who takes over a few months ago and has such serious problems to solve, to say 'I will solve it yesterday'. It takes a time, a reasonable time, to understand the problem and to be able to reach a definitive regulation. To say one thing in general, because I was listening yesterday to Mrs. Gennamas, who said that for their chairs society would suffer a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u89	Don't answer me for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u90	I would like to say, for example, that, with the forty-year chairs of the various groups, we have various problems with which large social groups are wronged. So let us come to this. We know the time, you said it yourself. It's just as you say it should be professional rights at last. We have already held three meetings with the representatives of the EUTEM, to tell us, to discuss, to see the rights, claims and put them to the debate. The Ministry's appeal is - I have told them many times - to resolve this issue as quickly as possible, and I say as quickly as possible, because you know, Mr Carras, that the Ministry of Education does not say what a profession one will do, but according to the academic programme, defines what one can do. Then there are various consensual ministries that decide the terms and all of this. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] The desire, therefore, of the current leadership of the Ministry of Education is to resolve the problem, by a slight difference - and I say this to hear it, and the people of the ETUC, who are sure to hear us now - is not something that is being done in a customer-led ministerial relationship and a representative of a body such as the ETUC, but creates another spirit in this society. In other words, these housings that we have that people who do five years of study at the Polytechnic University have all the rights and people who do four years of study have no right here, it is also a question of changing mentality. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] We are going to give it to professional rights, and it is important that they do not come out of the Council of State again. Because, Mr Carras, this paradox is happening. It says the Council of State "determine rights". Once someone goes to define them, he appeals to the opposing'strategory' and they are deducted from the Council of State. We want to reach a definitive settlement. That is why I say that it is not the press relationship 'they came and claimed and the Minister said 'take it'. It is about changing this culture a little and breaking this competition between Polytechnic engineers and TEI engineers. In my denture I'm going to say a few more things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Poppa, you have the floor. I'm sorry, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, you often change my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u93	No, it's too long your name and it's not easy to forget. You have two names. You have the floor, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u94	I will agree with the Minister for the difficulties of the problem. But I'm going to introduce something and allow me to. We now have a package of decisions by the Council of State, because, as you know, some graduates of a section have taken refuge. So if we codify the case law that has been established, I think it will help to see, if we can move forward, that decrees will also come out, Minister. I asked you the question, as I said in my prototype, because you are the fastest minister. In addition, I would like to observe and you will forgive me, that what Mrs Gennimata said, at least I am not concerned about any matter. I also want to say something else. I have made it clear in my protology that I do not come here to demand that everything be equal and equal, because I understand the differentiation of studies, not only in time but also in the subject of the studies of the higher education institutions, in relation to the graduates of the HEIs, polytechnics, or multi-technical schools. In this sense, then, Minister, I propose, if you have goodness, first of all, that the process begins, because these people, as you have admitted, have years and do not know what they have and what they do not, whether they have rights or not. You have rightly noticed that they will go to the Council of State. We should put this aside. If we look at the case law that has been put in place for 15 years, we will draw safe conclusions and you will be able to go ahead with it. I am not saying that the risk of cancellation is completely eliminated, but that the risk of cancellation is limited. I therefore propose that you move in this direction, since I see the goodwill of the Ministry. However, I would just like to ask you on two issues, so that you can answer your dentistry if you are kind. Do you have time to estimate? This is the most critical thing, as you understand, Minister, because getting into endless consultations means that we are staying in the past, which you yourself have made, saying about the long run that has been in this case. I would also ask you, if possible, to stand up to the issue of individual rights, because that would be a risk of cancellation. If you go overall to define professional rights, you know better than I do that this decision will be cancelled. While, on the contrary, if you do a TEI and departments match, to see what studies they give and see with the appropriate Ministries the respective rights, then the subject will be resolved. I note that I was willing to ask this question because I met the interested parties and found out not of their names, but of the material they have brought to me, the dystomia of the problem, Mr President. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, let me finish in thirty seconds. Before I finish, then, I would like to say that, unfortunately, I also have a decision - it is not your government's fault, but you will shortly be dealing with it, too - of the Supreme Court, condemning the State for compensation under the well-known article 105 of the Civil Code for the failure to comply with its obligations. These people are compensated for the reason that the state did not define their rights and harmed them not only materially but also morally. In this sense, I think it is now more necessary to speed up, Minister. Mr President, at this point I would like to table the relevant decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u95	Good, Mr. Carras, thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, you have done better than I would have said, and I am glad that this debate is taking place in Parliament. What I have to say - and I told the European people themselves - is that they have suffered a great injustice, which I am committed to eliminating, as long as it goes through my hand and as long as I am in this position. We started - and we said it the day before yesterday that we had a meeting at the Ministry and you are right, and that is why I said that you said it better than me - to take the case-law and take steps. That is what I asked them to do, and that is what I told them. Don't tell me that in a month you must have given the rights. A strong argument must be made, which is not competitive. They're not competitors in polytechnics with the people of TEIs. We have to look at the situation - and you have done very well to point it out, and I have recently noted it - a section to a section, to see the studies. The Ministry of Education is obliged to judge academic programmes and on the basis of them to propose rights, i.e. to say that these are the rights. We are in this direction and that is what we are trying to do. I would like to note something here. It is imperative that this be done for engineers, because I said before that we have all the rights at five years of study, while in sections of the TEI we have four years but zero rights. So here we have a great injustice. I did not say that they had the rights of five years - and I am very pleased that you stressed this - but that does not mean that they should have no rights at all. So there we need to find rights rather than endless consultations, because these things have been done. That is what I said to them. I want the logic of arguments to set up a thing that will not create war but peace and separate within society what are TEI engineers and what are multi-technic engineers. There should be no competition between them. As far as the timetable for which you have asked me, I will tell you something, Mr President. As strange as it may seem to you, we have about a hundred and fifty sections of universities and TEI - mainly TEI and also universities - without professional rights. In order to come to something that is now happening, I have proposed to TEI engineers, to see the whole thing and to get everyone rights. In other words, a bill has to come, which provides for all the rights they have to have. I understand, of course, that people have been in a hurry because they have been in this forty years. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] We'll see. Well, it's not gonna happen. But don't make me say - I don't like it, that is, from a mental point of view - that within 15 days it will be or at the end of June it will have been. I wish it had. I wish! But I want to say that in a direct year's time, we will see to it that it is resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the Parliament, since they participated in the "Workery of Democracy" training programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-five students and two trainers from the Ellis Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Eleventh question under number 880/17-5-2016 of the second question by the MP of Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKOS KEgeroglou to the Minister of Finance, concerning the protection of citizens from excessive charges on banks, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou. Also, the fourth under number 861/13-5-2016 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the situation in the Organization of Congregation of Congregation of Confederal Music, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Culture and Sport Mr. Baltas. The reason for Mr Balta's absence is Mr Putin's visit. Also, the eighth under number 794/18-4-2016 topical question by MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Stelios to the Minister of Health, on the need to prevent, treat and support the cancerous Volos, is not discussed due to a blockade by Mr. Polakis. Immediately now we will discuss the tenth-third with number 852/10-5-2016 question of the second-round question by MP Halkidiki of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Vagionas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning the 'atmospheric drops in the land of '40s and the current immoral' - as the Member describes it -'requirement of the Albanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs'. Here, Mr. Bagiona, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, Minister, the question that was asked about a month ago is about the dead soldiers of the Greek scene in 1940. I shall be very brief to describe the fact that this story starts about fifteen years ago with George Sourla, Vice-President, former Minister and former Member. It was spent a lot of time, a lot of trouble and a lot of money, and at some point a deal was made. What does the agreement signed by Albania's leadership say? It is an agreement that recognises the humanitarian dimension of the problem and the morality that exists and that it requires a decent bridging of the fallen soldiers in the Greek scene of 1940. Since then, when this agreement was signed in 2009, some expert groups have been set up on both sides, and the two committees have met, if I am not mistaken, on 25 April 2012. Until then, things were going well. From there on, though, something seems to be wrong. In particular, Albania was also in a pre-accession process in Greece in 2014. There is the association of the relatives of the fallen in Albania, represented by two former MPs, Mr. Sourlas as an honorary and Mr. Mars Bouloukos, who said to the Greek Government that this must be done before the accession process can be signed. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] The government then considered it appropriate that after agreement exists, the neighbouring country respects its agreement and will not cause any problems. But things don't seem that way. And that's what we'll talk about in dentistry, after I hear your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u99	Please, Mr Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for the question. Fifteen, about twenty days ago, I had answered a similar question. However, I would like to thank you once again for the opportunity to reiterate in particular the views of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We believe that, in fact, what you refer to in your question is one of the main issues that need to be resolved and pending. So, what issue? The issue of the decent and honorable burial of the Greek fallen soldiers, who were killed in the years 1940-1941, during the Greek-Italian war. The Military Cemetery Agreement has entered into force since 6 May 2010 and, as you mentioned, the relevant Joint Committee of Experts has already been set up. Our country's political leadership, during the recent visit of the Albanian Foreign Minister to Athens, made all levels and continues to make bilateral contacts with the appropriate points to the Albanian side, with the aim of speeding up the implementation of this agreement, while at the same time highlighting the high moral and humanitarian importance that our country attaches to this issue. Moreover, as Greece, we are moving in coordination for the immediate convening in Athens of the second meeting of the Joint Committee, on the basis of its own specific proposals. We have proposed to start work on one point, first of all - in this case the Cemetery of Cemetery - and, once this work has been completed, the continuation of work at another point to be chosen jointly by both sides. For the second part of your question concerning the number of Greek fallen, I am not responsible for answering you. I'll let you know that the department responsible for answering is the Department of National Defence. In my dentistry, I will also tell you about what you mentioned about Albania's pre-accession process in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Bagiona, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u102	Minister, I do not know when this question was raised about the Greek year of 1940. However, there is a question - unless you are talking about it - of Mr Kostas Tsiara, the Secretary-General of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, in November 2015, which I have in my hands. I don't have time to read the Minister's answer. I am only confined to paragraph 5 and I am reading out self-evidently: 'As we know, Albania has recently acquired the status of a candidate country for membership of the European Union. As a result, and as has been firmly and persistently stressed during my visit to the country last July, it is important to commit itself to respecting its commitments and, in particular, to conventionals. However, the 2009 Greek Albanian agreement is a necessary and secure indicator in its European path.’ I'm pointing this out. But recently, particularly in May, there have been vandalism in Albania. In particular - I will present them to you - the Albanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs with Mr. Glevin Dirvce - if I'm not mistaken it is on 25-2-2015 - does not recognise any Greek soldiers of the land of 1940, if there is no metal identity. This is a trick, it's a hypocrisy, so nothing happens. However, the worst part of all is that at lift 731, which fell by about five metres, there were vandalisms. I do not want to believe that the government is being blamed but some vandals who act as snipers. I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. So they completely destroyed the cemetery on height 731. I am sorry that there are no other colleagues in the House. It's okay. They're all patriots. I have discussed with many colleagues of all the wings and we are determined to help you if you want to. You must take full responsibility for the fact that we de facto raise the question of the need to regulate this humanitarian and moral issue. Otherwise, we cannot go on and accept the neighbour in the European Union by vetoing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Mr. Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u104	I believe, Mr Papoutsis, that in my dentistry, you will be satisfied with the part you are asking for. I would also like to repeat from this point of view that this is a matter of major national and moral interest. Albania acquired the status of a candidate for membership of the European Union with Greece's firm support. Therefore, its consistency in respect of its commitments and, in particular, conventionals is a stable and secure indicator in this European path. We insist, in other words, that the obligations they have imposed should be fulfilled. The Greek side considers it necessary to close all bilateral issues directly and before work on Albania's accession to the European Union begins, I would say - clean solutions, so that Albania's entry into the European Union is not accompanied by loose ends within the European framework. I think you should be satisfied with that. Of course, all the help you have given is welcome and very happy to accept it, so that these issues can be resolved, because it is shameful not to resolve this issue, especially for Greece. Thank you very much, Mr Papoutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty students and students and three professors from the Municipal School of the beautiful Naoussa Paros. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Thanks to the children for the Aegean air that bring us. We pass to the first question by No 4529/6-4-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the exclusion of the unemployed of all island communities from the "Social Work Programme". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. The question is being debated on the basis of a written question which we have put together with the honourable Member and Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Cremastinos and Mr Georgios Arvanitidis. Madam Minister, this is a more general issue, and we will of course also talk about the Social Work Programme. But the government has targeted islandism a few months ago. It repeals support measures, which have been taken in the past, in the context of the implementation of the Constitution, in particular Article 101, in order to remove the negative lasting consequences of islands. These measures, which we have also removed in the last bill that has been passed, concern mainly fiscal incentives. There is a need to rethink, especially after the position of Minister of National Defence Mr Kammenos, who after the vote on these measures said that it was a criminal act to abolish support measures and unconstitutional measures. Apart from the Minister's, however, this morning the President of the House expressed the same view on television this morning, saying that they are on the verge of unconstitutionality and not of constitutionality. There is therefore a broader issue, in general terms, about the validity of this law, which will also be signed by the President of the Republic, who is a constitutionalist. They confess to being unconstitutional. I don't know how much that law is anymore. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I now come to this particular point: the Social Work Programme. I should first of all like to say that you have made specific improvements and provisions, which will give greater potential to the theoretical framework. In fact, many of these provisions also came to the House to vote for and we voted for them because they will improve the system. However, with regard to the application of the objective, the number of unemployed, namely, the number of municipalities, we have a pilot run. What we are inviting you to do is not just ask you, is the fact that you have not taken into account the obligation to take special care of the islands. And I say this because one, two, three times the pilot at the seventeen municipalities has been implemented. We must finally start implementing it, and in particular after the abolition of the other measures, the tax incentives, which, as I have said, are late.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u107	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u108	I'm going to take some of my dentistry, Mr. President, because I have to give the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u109	You have something to say in your dentistry, that's why I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u110	No, I'm saying from my dentistry, I'll take time. Maybe you don't have to. So what do we say? That in this programme - both pilot and others - there had to be criteria to do with islands. I have not seen anywhere mentioning that you take into account the fact that it is an island, that it has employment in the summer, that it does not have winter, that it should not be eight months there but sixteen or I don't know what it should be like to be interrupted. Now I'm saying some ideas. In addition, I would like to say that I asked the Ministry of Shipping why it did not apply to islands. I am told by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs - and it actually tells you - that no draft law, addition or amendment, regulation or administrative act concerning an eight-month work programme has come to date in order to give opinions and to implement the Isle of Insularity clause. Given that it is of major development importance, despite the short duration and the issue of unemployment, but also the beneficial offer of these programmes, I believe that the procedure provided for in Article 101 of the Constitution, namely the laws that have been adopted in implementation of this article - n.4048, n.4150 and, of course, the Presidential Decree 103, which I referred to in the question - should be followed so that we have this special care not only for island regions but also for mountainous areas, as the Constitution says. That is what we are asking, and we have no question of today's debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u111	Thank you to the Member of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR, Vasili Kegeroglu. The Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Antonopoulou, has the floor to answer the question raised by my colleague. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. I should also like to thank Mr Kegeroglu for his question, because he gives me the opportunity once again - because I have answered the substance of the question to a previous question tabled - with great pleasure to repeat and clarify some issues. Firstly, the new public works that you find - and I am delighted to see that they have positive improvements - will be carried out in 2016, in all the municipalities and in the islands. What does that mean? With regard to the pilot project with the single criteria we have used and the selection of municipalities, why is it pilot? It is piloting because we need to see the further strengthening of the municipalities manage the new elements of this programme. It is not pilot, because we do not know whether it is going well or whether we need to integrate the teams with the criteria that we are going to set. It is precisely because we are proposing municipalities to support the unemployed at local level, precisely because we have a high degree of localisation and because we are linking seminars, which the unemployed are either receiving training on information that strengthens them so that they can be reintegrated into the labour market or towards entrepreneurship. We had to see how all this would tie up, button on a local level. So I now come to say this, Mr Kegeroglu: as far as the municipalities are concerned, there has been a choice on your own terms of office with other criteria. Has there been a distribution of how many unemployed? So many of those that were equivalent to each municipality. Apart from the fifty municipalities - which is the pilot phase - what we guarantee for all the other municipalities is that they will get the same number they had before. Therefore, you who have used certain criteria - I imagine the islands and any other criteria that were used in your term - are now being used horizontally for all municipalities, except for the fifty ones that are part of the pilot phase, as I have said before. I would like to say that at this stage, with the very close cooperation we have with the seventeen municipalities and then with the thirty-four municipalities, we are already making several improvements, which would be tragic, which should be done in the middle of a programme, when we have more than three hundred municipalities that are integrated. We could not easily do the monitoring and the treatment we need. Hence - and I repeat - the pilot of this action, which we have taken. I think we had already answered a series of - over fifty municipalities, which you had asked us why they had not joined. The criteria, as I said, are horizontal. I now come to say that one of the criteria we have used is that the number of unemployed and the long-term unemployed should be above a certain level. For the unemployed in the municipality as a whole - to say that it is chosen - we had said a thousand people over and above, so that management issues can arise. Because if you have ten unemployed people who will get into a program, it's too easy to manage. So the majority of our island regions, as you know, have much lower unemployment, which is recorded in the OAED - and it is a precondition for you to be registered in the OAED - and there are, indeed, some exceptions, which have high indicators, but which did not meet the one-thousand criterion. I must therefore conclude - having used the time from my dentistry too - by repeating that we were not planning, which excludes any municipality. We propose to some, so that we can manage to see how the program will be more well organized. Secondly, the number that will go to our islands will be the same, as they had received in the previous Social Work Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, it takes a little time to say a few things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u115	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u116	First of all, Minister, I did not have the responsibility of administering the previous programme, although I followed it. I can't answer you, even if you ask me about criteria or anything else. What I am asking you to do goes beyond the perception and philosophy that you have given us now. I'm afraid you haven't understood and you haven't read 101. Have you read it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u117	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u118	Article 101 of the Constitution, have you read it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u119	Of course I've read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u120	Oh, good. Therefore, Article 101 does not say "watch out, Mrs Antonopoulou, do not omit any municipalities from the islands". That's not what he's telling you. This is your obligation anyway. After all, in the seventeen, depending on whether you took it, you should have had two - three - four municipalities from the islands, to see and how the programme will work there, in any case. Like also being in a mountainous municipality, to see how it works. That's the check. In addition, he tells you that you need to take special care. You gave answers and a lot of work was done. You didn't have to. If I were to answer the question, I didn't need all this work, i.e. the criteria and all that. The way you worked, it was enough. However, it is not in accordance with Article 101 of the Constitution and the specific laws of procedure. I'm afraid you're breaking the law and the constitution. Your delirium is very serious. So I suggest you this because I have studied the issue of islands, islands and islands: until you reach the fifty-four, they are still thirty-four municipalities, which will join the second phase, let us say it. In the thirty-four municipalities, because you haven't made the decision yet...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u121	We've got her out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u122	You got her out? Send it to the Secretariat-General to implement the island clause. It can't be done. This administrative act, if I offend it, but also a municipality from an island or region, will be invalid. It is clearly invalid, not because, as I have said, the programme has not been improved, not for that reason. It is manifestly invalid because it ignores Article 101 of the Constitution, See Annex 'Question Time', No 4150, And, of course, Presidential Decree 103. We must finally be aware in this Chamber and, of course, in the government that every law, every legislative act, every administrative act, every administrative act, must take account of this obligation to take special care of the islands and the mountain regions. On a proposal from the Greek Government, this has also been incorporated into the European Treaty. Not a single word in your answers and criteria in relation to islandity. What you have said to me that you will also see to it that the islands are also taken, that is indeed proof that you have not understood your obligation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u123	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u124	Mr Colleague, I would ask you not to falsify my words. I didn't say I'd make sure the islands were included. I said that all municipalities, as in the past, are about to join. I'm taking care of the islands, so isology. As all municipalities will join...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u125	That's the anti-constitutional. That's why I accused you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u126	Will you allow me now to answer that question? You had time to ask the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u127	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u128	This is not the case, Mr Kegeroglu. Madam Minister, continue, if you're kind, without a vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u129	So I say that we use the same criteria that were used in your own term of office and you answer: 'I was not responsible.' You were at the Ministry of Labour. You weren't responsible? Your comments, then,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u130	If we talk about the pilot...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u131	It's not a pilot thing. Listen. It's a question of criteria. So here we say that we have followed the same criteria for all municipalities, except for this first pilot project. Don't be like that. I said we followed the same...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u132	You didn't apply them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u133	You won't let me answer, Mr. Kegeroglu, like every time you ask me a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u134	Now you're falsifying my own words.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u135	Keep going. Don't answer. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u136	What I'm saying is that we have kept the same criteria. We will look at them again, to see if the criteria you used should have been those. So we're counted...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u137	You don't do parliamentary control. I'm doing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u138	Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Kegeroglu, it's not right what you're doing. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u140	How is that not right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u141	It's not right. He'll answer the way he appreciates.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u142	You are President to observe the Rules of Procedure. Does the Member ask the Minister or the Minister the Member here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u143	The Minister will answer the way he appreciates and the world judges. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u144	I didn't ask you a question, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u145	It's a parliamentary control. The Member is asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u146	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u147	I didn't ask a question. I found out. I repeat that we are in the first phase, so that we can strengthen the municipalities so that they can run this new programme, which has our own logic and extend, as I said, to all the municipalities. There's no municipality out there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, your colleagues have distributed the minutes of the sittings of Monday 29 February 2016, Thursday 10 March 2016, Friday 11 March 2016, Thursday 17 March 2016, Monday 21 March 2016, Thursday 24 March 2016, Tuesday 29 March 2016, Wednesday 30 March and Thursday 31 March 2016, and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u149	The minutes of Monday 29 February 2016, Thursday 10 March 2016, Friday 11 March 2016, Thursday 17 March 2016, Monday 21 March 2016, Thursday 24 March 2016, Tuesday 29 March 2016, Wednesday 30 March and Thursday 31 March 2016 were validated. Also, the third with number 886/20-5-2016 top question of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, concerning the country's bankruptcy and the budget diversion is not discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible, Mr. Juliarakis, abroad. The seventh question under number 867/16-5-2016 of the President of Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARKK KEGEROGLOV to the Minister of Finance, concerning the problem of non-executive driving examinations, is not discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible, Mr. Juliarakis, abroad. The tenth under No. 876/16-5-2016 topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance on the schedule for repayment of late public debts is not discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister, Mr. Juliarakis abroad. The third, number 895/23-5-2016, topical question by Attica MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, concerning the criminalisation and repression of agricultural mobilisations is not being discussed due to the impediment of the honourable Member. Finally, the ninth question under number 545/15-2-2016 is not discussed in the ninth question of the second Athens MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Minister of Health on the problems of operation in the EKAB. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-26-S1-commons.u150	With the consent of the House at 12.06; the sitting is closed tomorrow, May 27, 2016 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical questions; b) discussion of the no 25/19/14/2016 topical question of Members of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the subject of "By postponing the development plan for the country", according to the agenda distributed.
