ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-05-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The second, number 1191/29-8-2016, timely question of the first cycle of the MP Iraklios of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the protection of the citizens from excessive bank charges, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou. The first question with number 4375/304/31-3-2016 question and application for the filing of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of Parliament I of the New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the contract by Kim Glen, or by the company representing the Greek Government, the Ministry of Finance or any supervised body, will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou. The third with number 1197/29-8-2016 will be discussed and a topical question by MP 2 Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance on illegal online gambling. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Treasury Alexiadis. Here, Mr. Cammene, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-05-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I think this is the first time we've all been together. I hope, from now on, that the work of this House will continue. Minister, regarding illegal online gambling, we have had a debate before. Illegal gambling in our country has emerged into a problem, with huge revenue losses annually, while wages and pensions are being cut. According to the Ministry's information note, as early as 2011, more than two hundred fifty online betting venues operate and up to a hundred and fifty thousand electronic gaming computers, while in total the illegal turnover of all these gambling is estimated at more than EUR 4 billion per year. In 2012, the Ministry allowed a transitional ‘temporary authorisation’ scheme for all betting companies established in EU Member States and authorised by the relevant competent authorities of those countries. Those who were subject to the transitional authorisation were, in the end, twenty-four, and after an investigation, it appears that some of the twenty-four companies which voluntarily benefited from the transitional regime of Mr Venizelos, without any substantial checks being carried out, but also the payment of exchanges to the Greek State, did not fulfil or cease to fulfil the conditions of their application under the transitional regime. The impression is that in a questionnaire sent by the Gaming Commission in the twenty-four companies the twenty-one responded and their replies show that the total revenue for 2015 was around EUR 1.9 billion, while gross profits reached EUR 116.200,000. I'm not going to go on. I'll come back to my dentistry. However, because the cigarettes and the statements are stated, because there is no control and legal regime and they are all set up in Malta, we are well aware of all this, we have discussed it between us, Minister, you are asking: What is the amount of the loss of money from illegal gambling in our country? How do you intend to handle the phenomenon of Greek licensed companies that appear to be located at the same addresses in Malta as Italian companies involved in laundry and money laundering? When is the draft law due to end this transitional regime, which has been in place for years, but also in illegal gambling? And a little parentheses. To put a legality into it too, to know what we're doing like channel permits. Finally, what are the responsibilities of the Committee on Games and what action has it taken to control the market for gambling in 2015? How is the outcome of the online betting companies from 2010 onwards deleted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-05-S1-commons.u4	You have the floor, Mr Alexiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-05-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, you are asking right questions with your question. I have responded twice more and in December 2015 to Mr Triantafyllidis and in July 2016 to Mr Panagoulis on these issues. I have answered, because this is really a very big issue. The legal framework governing this field of economic activity or rather the legal framework that does not govern it, because there is, in fact, no legal framework and while we force the citizens of very small values to pay HICP property tax, these gentlemen, by exploiting the institutional framework - the responsibility for this legal framework has names and politically and at the level of persons - unfortunately avoid paying huge amounts of taxes, because they are very simply established in other countries and as you have said, their tax obligation is exhausted to what they are going to say. We cannot control them like the institutional framework. This transitional regime clearly needs to be changed. This question you have a lot of co-responsible ministers to answer. It is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance who has responsibility for the SEP, it is the responsibility of the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Toska, whose document I will present to you about the controls, and mine in relation to tax controls. As far as the bill is concerned, the information I have received is that it is immediately - it has already been prepared - not more than one month to make the relevant provisions public. The negotiations will be concluded and tabled, so that we can go to a definitive regime, to stop this process. And as you said quite rightly, we now have the know-how from such licensing procedures. We can put an end to these injustices, ensure legality and bring a great deal of public revenue, because it seems that some people do not want one or the other. With regard to what we have done now, because this time we are not inactive, we have done specific things. There have already been twenty-four companies with a decision by the Secretary-General of Public Revenue inspect. Their names have been announced and checks on them have begun. Other services of the Ministry of Finance have also started auditing. The OPOCE is currently conducting five checks on such matters, the Special Secretariat of the IPOEA is also carrying out audits and all this through public prosecutor's orders. This whole process is already being controlled at tax level. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Also, the Economic Police has done too many checks on these issues and it has not only stopped on them. Making recently use of the European Football Championship in France, for example, for the period from 10-6-2016 to 10-7-2016 - I conclude, Mr President - it has detected at national level ten cases of illegal gambling and betting and there have been proceedings at the expense of fifty-five people, of whom forty-four were arrested at the self-sacrifice's limits. He also recently dismantled an international criminal organisation, whose members were active in the provision of illegal online betting services, where a hundred and twenty-seven members were arrested, including eighteen leading members. So the Economic Police, ELAS Services, are doing a very good job at this level. The rest I'll tell in my dentistry, so we won't waste any more time now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-05-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-05-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much for your information. They're a little well-known. What needs to be recorded today, because we are starting the work of the new period in September, and it must be clear, is when the bill will come - as we did with tobacco, we have been a little late - for many reasons and for permits, if the government is auctioned or whatever the government decides. But here there is another very serious social issue. Players, the Greek citizen or any citizen in this country are engaged in electronic gambling, he and his family and his financial situation are at stake, because if there is no regulatory framework and control, they can be lost too much money or too many games can be set up electronically. I do not want to consume Parliament's time and yours at the moment. It must be done immediately, that is, we must also protect the Greek citizen and the Greek taxpayer, how much more we should put rules of play. Based on my experience these years in Greece and abroad, and as long as we have discussed it, it seems that all these companies are similar to a Lernaia Hydra. It is five, ten, twenty or twenty-four companies in front, which themselves have three, four or five companies each in which the platform is borrowed. We've seen them. Because they're the same companies from the back and forward we have four different channels. The player does not know that behind it is the same company, but he produces profits and illegal profits, if you like, or uncontrollable profits, which he taxes abroad. The issue, in addition to taxation, because we are going and taxing on the turnover - that is how the government decided, as did the PPP and do well - is, because it is a statement, that revenue is very little. There were old statements by Mr. Stergiotis, who had done the strange thing, if you like, "We don't know the tick that companies do." However, this is a statement that we as government and you, Minister, have to give it to us as a matter of urgency. Who's the cigarette? Who is the turnover on which we will sit to put 30% or 35% on the GGR, as you say, so that we can get the tax revenue? If we don't know the tick, there's something we don't do well as a state. I think it needs to be thoroughly checked out who the turnover of the company is, as well as whoever's been prevented from appearing to this day. I have tabled a question with documents to the General Accounting Office of the State, and I would like to ask further from 2011 - and when the answer comes, I will send it to the Ministry - for the income tax paid by all these companies. Let's see what they paid. What they paid would account for in a reported turnover. We do it backwards, because we know the job too. After we see how much they paid, we will see, respectively, what they said as a cigarette and we will see whether this cigarette is real or not. Because if they've paid a fake cigarette, then we also fall in case of fraud. They've paid something in statement, even, but in a fake mosque. So this has to be solved. Also, the issue of fraud against the public or the false statement, because, as you quite rightly said, we are hunting the citizen for whatever it owes the public. This situation must cease to be uncontrolled and because the cigarettes are several billion euros, the state loses tens to hundreds of millions of euros tax revenues. This is not the luxury of letting them get lost any further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-05-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-05-S1-commons.u9	As far as the subject of the tax on turnover is concerned, there is really a great problem. The tax on these enterprises is what they want to say. And some of them are provokingly saying too little or saying very little profits. I had in a previous answer the income tax, because that's where the provocative thing is. The provocative is what income tax these businesses pay for, which have a huge turnover, we suspect it, but, as the system is structured, it is not possible to control it completely. As long as the headquarters of the company are abroad and as long as the installation of software and hardware is abroad, it is very difficult to control it by Greece. So we're only staying on what they're going to tell us. It is clear that the government's political will to end this lawlessness is very clear. We have nothing to do with these systems. We have no intention of coming to a transaction, we are not in the mood to follow what others have done in this place and have led to this legal framework. Because this legal framework is the result of specific political choices. We have a specific political will. To accept that we had to legislate more quickly, but we have explained why we often have these delays. What we have to say at the moment is that, as I said at the outset, we are in the final processing stage, we have been made provisions and very quickly the relevant legislative framework will come to Parliament, which will enable us to go to the transitional regime for new permits. Also, to know that, in view of the completion of the electronic payment bill - transactions, the possibility of reporting to the competent Greek authorities by foreign payment providers active in Greece is being considered. Therefore, financial transactions in the conduct of gaming online between Greek players and foreign companies will be able to be found more easily, thus suppressing illegal action. I would also like to tell you that there are already public prosecutor orders for those checks which, as I have said before, are currently being examined. As far as the National Commission, the Committee on Game Surveillance and Control is concerned, the SEA, which I will present to you documents, including the other Services, to provide you with full information and not to waste time, is continuously carrying out checks, as clearly stated, and to diversify the amount of gross profits of the twenty-four companies between the SEA and the OPCW. The SSP in its relevant document shall inform us that the information is derived from the official declarations of the providers submitted to the competent tax authorities, not from publications or anything else. However, they help the publications, such as the investigation into the place of establishment of these companies and from which it was revealed that there were too many companies on the same address and on the same floor and on the same desk. It is very clear what these companies want to do. It is clear, however, what this government wants to do. She's determined to collide and enforce order in this field of economic life too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-05-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-05-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute? I would like to have the opportunity to add something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-05-S1-commons.u12	Here you go, Mr. Cammene.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-05-S1-commons.u13	Minister, we need to retrospectively look at the matter. When we cross-check the mechanisms that paid the players, either from the Greek banks or others, we can see it from 2011 and from 2012, not from now on, because it has been "wrapped" a lot of money. I'm not afraid of words. Since 2012, when one plays and uses plastic money or prepaid card that buys from the Pakistani pavilion - because they did - we will have to find out which natural persons have paid what and what they have paid, because the electronic tracks of payments are there because they could not make payment otherwise, only electronically in credit cards or prepaid cards. I'll file the two documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-05-S1-commons.u14	Thank you to Mr Kammenos and Mr Alexiades and to note the consistency of Mr Alexiades in this particular task. The first, with number 1201/30-8-2016, a top-circuit question by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy, Christos Stakouras, to the Minister of Health, on the problems in the operation of the General Hospital of Lamia, will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis. Furthermore, the first question under number 1202/30-8-2016 of the New Democracy MP Argolidas Mr.Ioannis Andrianos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the progress of the projects of the Argolida irrigation network will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development, Evangelos Apostolos. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-05-S1-commons.u15	With the consent of the House at 18.27 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, September 6, 2016 at 18.30" on the subject of this House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
