ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's approval from 4-8-2016, the minutes of its PRF meeting, Thursday 4 August 2016, with regard to the vote on all draft laws:]] I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 ‘Prime responsibility of the Ministers’, as in force, on 4-8-2016: (i) Criminal proceedings concerning former Prime Minister Konstantinos Karamanlis and former Minister of Health Mr Dimitrios Avramopoulos. (ii) Criminal proceedings concerning the Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and the former Minister of Finance, Mr Ioannis Varoufakis. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Eight questions will be discussed. But first of all, I will announce what questions will not be discussed. The third, with number 1141/18-7-2016, timely question of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on excessive bank charges, on electronic interbank transactions, will not be discussed due to Mr. Tsakalotou's misguided obligations. The second under number 1142/18-7-2016 topical question of the second question of the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the termination of the unfair exclusion from the work of the employees of the Evian Cooperative Bank, will not be discussed due to the misappropriated obligations of Mr Tsakalotos. The third, with number 1150/18-7-2016, is a topical question of the second question of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseyas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the progress of the projects for the development of the former airport of Greece, will also not be discussed due to Mr. Tsakalotos' commitments. Eighth Question No 961/7-2016 Parliamentary Second Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Sakis Vardalis to the Finance and National Defence Ministers regarding the Greek Vehicle Industry (ELVO ABE), will not be discussed due to Mr. Tsakalotos's unsuccessful obligations. Also, the ninth question under number 1042/246/2016 of the second-round question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Independent Greeks Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Finance on the exorbitant compromise between the Greek State and SIEMENS, will not be discussed due to the unsettled obligations of Mr. Tsakalotos. The number 4375/304/31-3-2016 question and application for the submission of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Finance, on the financial size of the contract with Kim Glen, will also not be discussed due to the unsettled obligations of Mr Tsakalotos. Watch the date, 31-3-2016. This question concerns the following: To come to Parliament the contract signed by the Greek Government with the infamous Kim Glen, to see how much money Mr Kim Glen gets. Six months now Mr Tsakalotos does not bring the contract or come to me to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u2	I've been waiting four months, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u3	You'll break the record, Mr. President. Don't worry. Also, the 3062/10/10/2016 question by the Independent Member of the Laconia Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Finance on compensation for the share of cooperative banks, will not be discussed due to the unsuccessful obligations of Mr Tsakalotou. The second question under number 1137-12-2016, the first question of the Piraeus II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Lagus, Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the "summer quoted in Greece by the Turkish Prime Minister's son with illegal immigrants and refugees of Muslim religion", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr.Nikolaou Kotzias, who will be outside Athens. The seventh question under number 1097/6-7-2016 of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health concerning the "no policy in the defence of the health of citizens", will not be discussed due to the extraordinary personal impediment of the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Also, the question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health regarding the planning for the launch of the multi-valent Tymbalian - Heraklion Crete will not be discussed due to temporary staff blockage of the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Finally, Mr Athanasios Davakis' question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about bilateral relations with Iran will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Member of Parliament. The fourth question, with number 1160-19-7-2016, will be discussed now, for the first time, by the Member of Parliament's Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the withdrawal of the decision to reduce professional schools (EPA) Mytilini. The Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will answer Mrs Urania Antonopoulou. Mr. Tassos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ms. Minister, in Mytilini professional schools have been operating so far, covering not only Lesvos but also the other islands of the northeastern Aegean, such as Lemnos, Samos, Chios, which had nine specialties. You know them. I don't have to list them. Recently the Director of OAED, Mr.Karamesini, visited Mytilini and confirmed that the school should not only continue to operate because it is standard, but also to be upgraded. Now, on the contrary, we learn that for the year 2016-2017 of the nine specialties that existed, we go to four, that is, five are being cut. It is obvious that if this is the case, we are leading to a huge shrinking of one of the largest professional schools in the country, and indeed in Lesvos, which has so far covered nine specialties with about three hundred students from many parts of Greece. This is an extremely negative development and, if not cancelled, it will have a number of negative effects, such as a reduction in students outside Lesvos who come to study at the PPC Mytilini and other parts of Greece, especially from the other islands, as mentioned above, ensuring a useful speciality that will allow them to live. This is a reduction of the students who will make their practice in the public, the DEEA, the hospital, the Municipality of Lesvos, the Region of Northern Aegean, the Greek Army and the private sector, covering basic needs. I would also like to stress that we do not want to have permanent but permanent teachers - which, in addition to the work of education, also provides administrative support, given the reduction of permanent administrative staff and the inability to complete timely work necessary for the proper functioning of the school. In addition, the lack of the existing high-value logistics infrastructure for vocational training - the education of young children and others. In view of the above, and given that PASS Mytilini is the only one in the Northern Aegean region and serves its ten outermost islands, we ask, Madam Minister, whether you will withdraw the decision to shrink the Mytilini EPSA, which is, at least, unfair and condemns to even greater isolation the young people who are still living on our remote islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u5	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tassos, with regard to your question about Mytilini VDU, we would like to inform you that there is no decision to shrink the Lesvos VDU, because the specialities that will work this year in eleven departments are eight, those that were, that is, the school year 2015-2016. The specialties, that is, were not nine, but eight. In particular, there are five specialities for the first year, three of which relate to the second year. So, as a whole, we have five - three, covering the same specialties as the first year - plus three more. So, five and three, eight purely specialties. The only specialties - compared to the previous two years - which will not work are hairdressing - and I will explain why - and the staff of financial tasks. As you know, specialties are not kept stable from time to time. Each year they change according to the real needs arising in the region. They are conditional upon and decided on the basis of the consultations of the NCA with the local actors prior to submission of the proposals for specialisations. Also, on the basis of the practices offered, which is very important, as we know, to private and public enterprises. Thirdly, they are decided on the basis of the course of the previous year's apprenticeship. For example, in the previous year I referred to hairdressing. As far as this specialization is concerned, neither Class I nor Class II worked, because they had zero records. Therefore, when this is in place for two consecutive years, this specialty will of course not be given. I would also point out that from those who joined the school, the courses attended 60% - 80% last year. In other words, in a hundred and eighty - year - old, one of the three hundred students who would like to be written first. Yet, at the end of the day, a hundred and eighty one were observed. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, I will conclude in a minute. To conclude, I would like to say that in addition to the OAS of apprenticeship, as we know, higher education is offered in Mytilini, where those who wish to have vocational training can access. Also because you have referred to this, as regards whether there is a reduction in staff or not, we would not be able to know that at the moment, because the procedures have not been completed. We will know that at the end of August. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Tassos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u8	Minister, firstly, I would like to tell you that there is a reduction. In fact, I have the list in front of me, which says that there are nine specialities. But you told me about eight. This list comes from the PSUR Mytilini. At this point, I would like to list the specialities: Artistics, Artificial Electrical Works, Thermal and Hydraulic Installations, Hairdressing Art, Cooking Art, Art Engineering and Car Systems, Hotel Business, Economics Officers and Support Arts Systems. Total, nine. And now you're saying it's going to be eight other minus two, hairdressing and financial services. So we're actually going to six, based on what I have in front of me. So there's a reduction in specialties. That is the issue. The other issue, of course, is the more general issue of how education, education and training are handled in our country and within what framework is integrated. It's part of the market, which means what? The dominant ideology of the class, which is in power and on the one hand serves the economic interests of the dominant class, which is not profit, is generally promoted for the purposes of the market. So what do you do on the subject of education? On the one hand, in the logic of cutting expenditure and reducing expenditure for these purposes, you integrate departments and schools, reduce educational staff, promote flexible working relationships and, on the other, give this field to individuals, because it is another area of profit for them. For us, therefore, it is dominated by the fact that there is no reduction in specialties in the present circumstances, and of course, as I said before, because we know that these are 'blocks'. They also raise the question of the permanentity of those involved in this process. It is not possible for trainers and teachers to be mature or under contracts of two, three, eight months - or I do not know how much - they are treated like something that, in any case, we are dating here on the market and what we are getting from us. We therefore want these specialities to remain - there are unanimous resolutions, both from the municipal council and from the Northern Aegean Region - that there should be no reduction. Of course, the more general problem of how education is organised and who is serving remains open. We are struggling for another organisation of society, where Education will be integrated into it, there will be a single 12-year-old school. And from there on, the kids will have two choices: either go to a professional education or go to universities. That's all I had to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u9	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u10	You've opened a lot of issues, and of course I won't be able to answer it, but I'll try. Firstly, I repeat that specialties have not been reduced. They were the ones you mentioned last year, but they didn't work because there were no students. Today, then, we say that the skills offered are eight. It's over. We have nothing more to say. It's eight specialties, not four that you mentioned in your question at first, not six. Secondly, you bring the subject of education. We are talking about a special section of education, about vocational training, vocational training. When we train where we look? In vocational training or someone will privatize and open up their own shop or find a job as a worker. Should we not connect them to the labour market? Look, we have first completed as a country a system for the diagnosis of the labour market, without which we could not even use the ESDP money. The previous governments had been delayed for a decade. And in 2014 they made us compulsory that if we do not finish it, we will not be able to operate them, which means that we would not be able to operate any of the things we are discussing today. We're done. What do we finish? We say: what does the market want? That's exactly what we're saying. What the market is asking for is to say what jobs are available. So when we have so much unemployment today - which has been reduced in our term, it has gone to 23.3% from where we found it at 26%, but is impairment too small - and we are doing vocational training, should we do vocational training and training in sectors where there is no demand on the labour market? I cannot understand your logic. As far as technical high school and vocational education is concerned, as you know, we have already made progress, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, where there will be exactly what the government promised that it would do, in other words, 12 years of study, even for those who are interested in pursuing a specific profession, plus a year later, last year as vocational training. I repeat that this is a great debate, and we should open up some time. Because I cannot understand what we mean when we say that we should not have jobs in which we train our young people in line with the positions that exist and the course of our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u11	Can I make a comment, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u12	No, there's no other comment. Next is the fifth under number 1143/18.7.2016 timely question for the first cycle of MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks, Dimitrios Kammenos - who was troubled yesterday in committee, from what we saw - to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the future of the Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ). The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, Mr. Theodora Jacki. Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. The issue was debated last year. I will be very brief in my question in my protology to get time for my denology, because it is very important. Two are the main issues that the Greek State has to deal with in relation to the Greek Sugar Industry: First, last year, just before, we saved the company with the 30 million-documented liquidator. We have decided to give 30 million in order to meet the obligations on the outside, the customs producers. We know where the money went. Since then, an administrative board has resigned. The CEO called me a Friday and said: 'I quit'. At the same time, it emerged from the prosecutor's finding of criminal prosecution for old administrations of a complaint from the previous administration of the EBZ, of infidelity and fraud in the state that exceeds EUR 50 million. So we have two issues. What are we going to do to keep the company alive? I ask: what's the business plan? What are the responsibilities? What are we doing with the criminal prosecution of infidelity to the public of EUR 50 million? That's a public prosecutor's finding. It's not a matter of me or the CEO or yours. How are we gonna handle this? What's the business plan? What are we gonna do to save her? What are we doing with ATE, a clearer, and Piraeus Bank, where it owes 160 million? Is there a restructuring plan? I ask them why I know there is. I want to know where we are. And I'll come to my dentistry and discuss the rest of the details. Of course, if there is, as I ask, a business plan, I very much ask that it be submitted to the House to check it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u14	Mrs. Jackrey, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. You're right, Mr. Comrade. The responsibilities of the members of the previous administration of the Greek Sugar Industry are enormous. I would therefore say that the political responsibilities of the political parties that had appointed these administrations are enormous. To understand what I mean, it is enough to take a look at the evidence showing the situation in which we received the Greek Sugar Industry. For the economy, I will only refer to two of them: 50 million short-term positions, which means reduced own funds, and 140 million debts. After all, the members of the previous administrations, precisely for these acts and omissions, are now in the process of preliminary investigation in the face of Greek justice, for malicious infidelity, for the minimal damage to the EUR 50 million created by the Greek State, due to the creation of debts and the failure to collect third-party debts to the Greek Sugar Industry, in breach of any concept of good corporate governance. Let me say, of course, that the offences still being investigated today by the Greek justice have caused serious damage to the Greek Sugar Industry, since its property has been significantly devalued, which makes it difficult to make every effort, I would say, further smooth operation. As far as the first part of your question is concerned, therefore, I should like to say first of all that, as far as the Members of the previous administrations are concerned, this case has been taken away and is before the Greek courts, before Greek justice. As far as the new administration is concerned: The new administration, upon resignation of the previous members of the Board, has been appointed and is in place since April of this year. It has taken exactly the following steps to put the company forward. At the moment there is a new business resolution plan for the first time, - I must say - it has drawn up with the creditor bank a debt restructuring agreement and a new financing agreement for the company, it has drawn up a new collective labour agreement with the employees, which provides that a significant reduction in wage costs will occur by the end of 2016 and also an effort is made to restore confidence relations with Greek producers. Today I am pleased to inform you that all the measures provided for in the financing agreement have been completed, the new financing of the Greek Sugar Industry by the creditor bank, and the next few days the first instalment of funding provided by this EUR 5 million project will be disbursed, most of which will be directed towards the repayment of the debts to producers. Furthermore, let me say that for the first time, extensive maintenance of the two factories of Plateos and Orestiad is being created - their equipment has always been devalued - in the direction of improving and increasing the industrial efficiency of the Greek Sugar Industry, so that we can make a significant increase in the area of cultivated. In particular, I will tell you about this in my denunciation, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u16	In your dentistry, you should answer if you have the resolution plan in your hands. If you have it, you must put it before you today, otherwise you can make a commitment to send it so that Mr Kammens can receive it and anyone else who wants it. Here, Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to have a little tolerance in time. The most important thing in this case - and we should be telling the truth here - is that the previous administration, in April, resigned for a simple reason. There were all the plans. I know very well that there were plans. Why did the previous administration resign, which was excellent? I mean the immediate previous April 2016. Because there was no provision by the Greek State of avoiding a conviction of infidelity to the State, if they signed for the restructuring of the company. In other words, the plan says that since 162 million debts - because it wasn't 105 million - in ATE, 50 I do - it says the bank - I'm taking you 10 years back, and the other 50 I'll take after you sell the factories in Serbia, to pay both the DEPA and the "TRAINOSE". It's a lot of debt. When you sell assets and you can go inside for infidelity in the public sector and it does not protect you as the CEO to sign, since all parties have agreed that it should be refined, it is not his unilateral action, that is, then there is a problem. So the question that arises is: is the new administration being protected from infidelity? Will he sign for the divestment to implement the business plan? As the President said right before, and I said so, we want to see it, we want to see the plan. We have the knowledge and technical competence, many colleagues in this House, and we can see that collectively all parties save the good of sugar. Also, payroll was EUR 42,000 average per year. Sixteen wages were paid by previous administrations. They worked four months a year. The other four why don't you work? Because we're on maintenance. What are you up to? Because we don't have beet all year? Average salary of 42,000 euros! And they said to save the company. Then I had a fight with Mr. Lafazani and had a fight with the Communist Party of Greece, which did not want to give out the money to save and want unemployed. So, in order to be serious and to save the sugar monopoly, so that we do not have to import sugar here and export foreign exchange, save the customs producers, save three hundred families, save the company's assets, firstly we have to see the healthy business plan. Secondly, there should be protection of the board of directors in this and to all companies, which will restructure debt with all the contracting parties that have a legitimate interest, whether this is the Greek State, whether that is the creditors are either the banks or the suppliers. Since everyone has sat on the table and agreed to the restructuring, he who will have his signature to enjoy the immunity provided for worldwide in Greek law as well, in order to sign and go further. That's the most important thing. Also, the third part I want to know is whether we did something with the wages in the restructuring. Because there are small interests and political interests, with payrolls of EUR 2 000 and EUR 3 000 per month to an industry, which, as the prosecutor says, was unfaithful in the public interest, that is to say, it had at least three suppliers to which it increased the credit line, it gave them EUR 20, 30 million and it did not receive it. Should I put him in jail to do what? Like Ace, can't I even get the property in Dionysius Areopaite? 50 million have been lost here. If we had the 50 million of the three cases of the prosecutor, there would be no need to restructure the debt, we would not have to sell the factories in Serbia, which is equal to the amount as an asset. Are we gonna get the money back? I'm not telling you, I'm generally telling you, as a question, how the public should behave. I don't just want to put some people in jail. I want to get the money. The one who has benefited from the 50 million of infidelity must return the money back and all of us to save the sugar. We can't afford to import sugar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u18	Mrs. Jackrey, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Comrade, there's a service plan. Only one Draft summary is two hundred sixty-five pages. I would be very happy to send it to you to study it as carefully as you wish. What is the difference between today and yesterday? First of all, as you have pointed out, there is the first time an operational restructuring plan for this industry. In her long-term function, she's never been in the past. An operational plan supported by the administration, which is currently at the wheel of the Greek Sugar Industry, and is being implemented to date. There is this very serious effort to restore confidence relations with producers and, above all, the government's political will to rescue it, which includes the entire range of the value chain, which starts from producers to final consumers. In this respect, I would like to mention the government's overall policies. I will tell you first of all, starting with the Greek producers, because here there are peculiarities. Industrial raw material is another very important crop for our own economy, for wood-growing. From April to a few days ago, in July, OPEKEPE paid a total of EUR 2,450,000 to a thousand four hundred sixteen producers, corresponding to EUR 53 area support, precisely in the direction of strengthening this crop and increasing the area cultivated from the sixty-five thousand acres grown this year, which we can go up to six-fold of them from the next growing season. To say, too, that in the same direction OPEKEPE by the beginning of September will pay the balances from the integrated management of the years 2012 and 2013, immediately after the integrated management of the year 2014 and, by the end of 2016, the amounts corresponding to integrated management of 2015, so as to re-enter the programme of integrated management on a regular track. What do I mean by that? Increase in the cultivated areas means greater material for processing, thus increasing industrial efficiency of the Greek Sugar Industry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u20	How much does he buy the pound?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u21	Let the State Secretary finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u22	This means, therefore, economies of scale, reduced production costs, which means a more competitive sugar product. First of all, I should like to say to you that the Greek sugar industry is a well-known and well-known brand name on the Greek market, which enjoys the confidence of both consumers and traders. Indeed, I will say that the aid, the improvement of production efficiency, falls within the government's objective of productive restructuring of the country. It strengthens primary production and not only because I have already told you that here the raw material is sugar beet, the cultivation of which not only does the government want to maintain as it stands, but wants to develop more precisely in order for our national economy to gain self-sufficiency in sugar and not to be forced to import these important quantities of sugar, by paying for imports, with everything that that means to our commercial balance in any case. As you can see, the project is difficult. For the first time, however, there are these coordinated actions which are very much maintained by the administrations that support them and yet the plan, Mr Kammenos, goes exactly as it has been recorded on paper. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u23	Waiting, Mr. Kammenos, for the plan, you'll probably come back after you read it. We are going to ask three questions to which the President-in-Office, Mr Ioannis Balafas, will answer. The first question will be discussed under number 1146/18-7-2016 of the new Republic MP, George Vagionas, on the delay in the release of funds for the prevention of fires. Mr. Bagiona, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I will make sure that I am very brief, that I cover the time taken by the previous question and that I also satisfy the Minister. My question was made on 29 June. The occasion was the first fire in Halkidiki, fortunately small area on June 25th. It happened next door to Porto Carras. There were no roads that had to be completed by last October. I have the assurance, in another question from the Minister for the Environment, that it will be satisfied within two weeks, because the road from the settlement outside Marmaras to the forest nursery was ready not to burn the fifty acres that were burned. We need some indemnity. In this case in my question, perhaps even from a professional perversion, it is preferable to prevent you from healing. The Minister seems to have followed this and tried to activate the Forest Protection Programme mechanism by 8-7-2016. For all three forests of Halkidiki, Arnaia, Kassandra and Directorate Polygyros, three warrants were cut, jokes as money, but very important for preventing fires. I have this sensitivity to the fires as well, starting in 2006 when, on 21 September, the great fire of Cassandra Halkidiki took place and a third was burned. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I will not have a second speech, Mr President. To correct the environment and, more generally, the economy in the region, a five-year period has passed. I do not want Halkidiki to relive the same situation because, when we say environment, we mean the basic sources of wealth in Halkidiki and not only in Halkidiki, but throughout Greece. From the wealth produced in Halkidiki, my county gets 2% to 3% and everything else goes for other state management. Do not forget that the coastline is about six hundred miles [600 km] in Halkidiki, so many which do not have entire states. On this coastline and in depth from the coast three to four kilometers have been built hundreds of large-capacity hotels, from over 100 rooms, up to a thousand rooms in some complexes - the others do not count. Outside, however, something that doesn't know and is a strict matter of brassica, there are thirty-five thousand rental companies, which are almost in forest lands literally. That is why we very much need to have proper forest protection. Therefore, firstly, in case of fire tourism is destroyed, as we had the example of Cassandra in 2006 for a few years. Secondly, agriculture and when we say agriculture, we basically mean olive. Two hundred and fifty thousand pounds of edible olive oil produces Halkidiki and outside of it and many other agricultural products, but also two other categories, such as livestock farming. There are some hundreds of thousands of sheep and goats and some industries that produce feta cheese, which give wealth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u25	Finish, Mr. Bagiona.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u26	I'll finish and close. Beekeeping produces 20% of Greek production, only 10% of the Municipality of Sithonia. So I have the warrants in my hands, because I watch where every question I ask is, and on 1-8-2016, an amount of EUR 18,000 for a forest, EUR 22,000 for the second and EUR 27,000 for the third. That is why I thank you, and I say that prevention does not cost anything. But healing is multiple in money costs and sometimes incurable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u27	The question is specific, despite the general presentation you have made. So, Minister, please answer the question, which is the delay in the release. The warrants came out, the money wasn't taken. That's what I get. Mr Balafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u28	Mr Bagiona, I know how responsibly you are dealing with the issues and how much knowledge you have, especially about the problems of your region. A sample of this knowledge we have also taken from your position. Of course, as far as your question is concerned, I do not doubt your intentions. However, as your question has been formulated, I think you are wrong not to our Ministry, the Government, the other ministries in charge, but, in my opinion, to all these men and women in the Fire Corps who, by means of a plan, by means of professional and self-sacrificial intervention, often carry out their mission, as they have done in this particular fire to which you are referring. So, as far as your first question is concerned, I have before me your question and I have dealt with it, that is, where the government inactivity has so far been due, and I will answer it - and I shall prove it - that there has been no inaction and that is not the case. It is characteristic that in the fire you mentioned, on June 25 in the Hondri Rachi area in the New Marmara Halkidikis, we know that, although I am sure you know it, this fire was put under control within the minimum time necessary, on the same day since its launch, and its complete depreciation has been completed in the next essentially forty-eight hours. They acted operationally in the area of forty-seven employees of the Fire Corps, forty fire-fighting vehicles and by the assisting bodies as a whole seven other vehicles and five heavy-duty machinery. Air protection and intervention were carried out with seven aeroplanes and helicopters. In my opinion, therefore, and not generally and vaguely - speaking of my side - there was no inertia of any kind. This concerns your first question. However, there is also a second question for you, if the government intends and, if so, until when, a specific date, to release the necessary resources, in order to initiate the standby procedure, with the recruitment of the necessary staff. In this respect, I would like to inform you that there is a specific design. There are prevention measures and you know that responsibility for the implementation of these prevention measures and the planning in this case lies with the Decentralised Administration of Central Macedonia and Thrace. This year, with resources that have been made available and with the staff at its disposal, it has proceeded with the prevention process, as you say, with a plan for which we have been informed. I have to stress, because you said some things, but in an absolute way. We believe that this plan can adequately meet the needs of prevention and forest protection. I would point out to you or perhaps I would point out that recruitment to seasonal staff, the financing of the Forest Services and the maintenance of the road network is a matter of the Ministry of the Environment. As regards the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, there are the aids from the central independent resources for protection measures in 2016, part of which you refer to. Not to mention numbers. I have followed very carefully, although I will return to both the Ministry of the Environment and the decentralised administration. I think that there was no inertia of any kind in these matters. It doesn't make sense for inertia to be indebted. That's our opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u29	Although Mr. Vayonas said he doesn't need a dentext, I'll give him a minute. Minister, I have noted something that is not about Halkidiki alone, I suppose. It's about all of Greece, where there's a fire risk. You were clear. I know you. You said the money was given to the decentralized. So decentralized hasn't disbursed them. But the decentralized system is entirely dependent on the individual government. Over time, not just with you. So here we have to find a solution. Here, you have the floor for a minute, Mr. Vagiona, to finish Mr. Balafas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u30	I never said the Services were inactive. Continuing public service. But if the road had finished for a few and a half miles, forest cars would go very fast and, where fifty acres were burned, they might have burned only one or two. You wouldn't have to mobilize. That is why I said 'prevent'. The treatment is very expensive and sometimes impossible. I do not stand within the competence of the ministries. I see forest protection as a whole. I'm tired of keeping and observing them, which have Forest Services. Personally, I recognize that it's a little bit. But it's all self-sacrificing, and with its own money it makes up to a hundred kilometers to see where it's on fire. Where there's a fire, it's handled immediately. Thank you, even lately, Mr. Undersecretary, for getting activated by my question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u31	Here you go, Mr Balafa. You have the floor in addition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u32	For a moment literally, Mr President, it was an interesting debate. I would like to mention a remark from the study of Mr Bagiona's question and other relevant questions concerning disasters during this period. I am referring here to honourable Members who are facing the problem. He pays our state every year, from taxpayers' money, too much money to meet these needs. Then we will talk to Mr Constantinople about another type of disaster in the Arcadia region. And I think that at last, precisely because of the prevention that Mr Vagiona has said, we must move on to large-scale projects, whether on flooding or on fire issues, in particular, to protect our sites, our homeland and not to interfere with retrospectively. Even the cost, beyond the ecological cost or the negative impact on tourism or people's lives, would be, in itself, less. They tell me that many times the fires are due to a large degree - because I searched it - to the sparks coming out of the high-voltage columns of PPC. This could also be predicted around there to do a specific job. Because we still have an important piece of summer and every day I see whether it blows or not, something that creates additional risks - you live these issues more closely in your areas - I appeal to the Firehouse, with its enormous effort - I have said before - to the voluntary firefighters and other teams of collective responsibility to give this month, which is dangerous, their best self to protect our country, our forests, our country. There are too many examples of voluntary offering, which we must intensify. It is an appeal of mine to all of us to step up our efforts in this difficult month. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u33	Because I said I know you, once you get back to the ministry, see what's going on with the decentralized and the money that's not disbursed. We move to the sixth question under number 1149/18-7-2016 for the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Union of Centres Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the long-term delay in the activation of a process of enforcement and recovery in favour of the neighbouring municipalities, municipal tax burdening the airport company "Eleftherios Venizelos". Excellently interesting question. Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for your presence. The constitutional safeguard of the financial self-sufficiency of the EBRD is given, and this is why the Municipal Code and the Special Law provide for taxes, fees, contributions and charges. However, when we have major concessions, such as Spata airport, which are ratified by special law, special provisions are received, and to a large extent also local and public tax exemptions, in favour of concessionaires. In the case at Spata airport, the contract, ratified by law, provided that there would be a special tax. It is not a reward fee, in my view, that is a special tax of 0.5% on the airport company's gross income for that year, in favour of the neighbouring municipalities. That's what happened in 1997. An issue was raised on the way, if the municipalities are entitled to receive fees for lighting and cleaning. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I'll be briefed. An opinion came out in 2001 and said they were not entitled to cleaning and lighting fees. The matter is still pending. It comes in 2008 and comes out of a strange law that says "for the enforcement and the process of collecting this special tax in favour of the neighbouring municipalities a KHS will be issued" which has not yet been issued. This CSH - you will allow me to comment - it was also from the evil one - to perhaps relieve the airport of obligations for the previous year. Because, since the law says that there must be a procedure to determine how to certify and collect, they could not be initiated and removed from the municipalities under the Municipal Code in this way. Well, from 2008 to 2016, no special tax has been collected by neighbouring municipalities from the airport. I'll catch up with you, Mr Balafa, if you're kind enough, and I'll take it from my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u35	That is not the case as a procedure, but because it is an interesting question and it is the last day, I am a little more flexible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u36	If you now tell me that they collect municipal taxes of 2% or 0.5% from shops operating in the airport, it is something different from the special fee borne by the airport company, the operating company. So I asked the questions: Why has the CYA so far not been issued and how will the property of the municipalities be protected, since the CYA delay leads to the five-year limitation of earlier uses of the tax in accordance with the applicable laws?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u37	Good, Mr. Carras. Here, Mr Balafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u38	Mr Karras and his question, as he put it in writing, but also in today's presentation with a legal adequacy, raised the matter. I don't know if Mr. Carras is a lawman.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u39	I am.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u40	Forty-two years a fighter lawyer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u41	So I guess I'm right. I, because I am not a lawmaker, am an engineer, will put it a little more practical, because we really need to look for - that is what is to be done, neither Mr Carras nor I have any intention of making any impressions - if we can take this one step further. I couldn't agree more. I know your intentions and other colleagues very well. This convention was signed in 1997. I don't know if it was from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Infrastructure. What did that contract say? He didn't say he was paying for that tax. That's not what he said. He said that "I set a limit, a ceiling of 0.5% of gross revenue per year and what the neighbouring municipalities will get, then they were communities, will not exceed that amount". That's what the contract said. As you quite rightly said, since 2001 - if I am not mistaken - it does not mean that, because 0.5% of you were not collected, nothing was collected. That's a mistake. Taxes and fees and other airport charges were levied on the municipalities, the total amount of which was summed up, not entirely, but I have the impression that it sometimes exceeded the ceiling of 0.5%. In other words, it was not in this sense the 0.5% that the contract had done and by applying existing legal provisions they received money. It was a burden on the airport. I don't feel like taking out the airport oil, but we have to say things the way they are. For example, through PPC - I saw the bills - the municipalities take not indifferent amounts of electricity, the current that PPC provides at the airport, is borne by the airport and then by a tax rate - on the basis of this amount of electricity it gives - goes to the municipalities. In 2008, as you said, Mr.3631/08 emerged, doubtful real intentions - I fully agree - which said that a joint ministerial decision on the procedure is needed, namely to establish a procedure for the enforcement and recovery of the revenues of the municipalities. I would like to make a reference here, Mr Carras, to a reservation, of course, because it contains an assessment. The municipalities do not seem to be interested - I am not saying at all - in so far as they should be interested if nothing was actually received. That's for investigation. So this situation, as you said, is perpetuating, as you said, from 2008 until today, so the municipalities are interfering and what are they saying? They want the joint ministerial decision of No.3631/08 to come out, but the content that they give the CSCE and propose that this joint ministerial decision should have is not what is provided for in No.3631, Mr. Karras. This NSA doesn't come out. And the municipalities return and say: 'After you have not made the joint ministerial decision with your responsibility and within a few months, we consider that you have rejected our request.' And that is why they have tabled it - and I should like to say it legally - an application for the cancellation of alleged rejection. So the case is in the courts and not in general and vaguely in the courts, and it is in plenary - and this is very important - of the Council of State, which will, after a postponement of the case on 7 October, in two months' time. We will be here and await the decision on the further. I assure you, because I have looked too hard at it, at the moment we cannot say anything more. We're waiting for the full - time decision of the Council of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u42	I left you because it was very interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u43	And openly, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u44	Before giving Mr Carras the floor, because I was the President of the then CEDEFOP, I would like to say something about the reasoning that the law changed, Mr Carras. Because Mr Balafas is right, that the municipalities were collected. However, other than the compensation fees that Mr Karras spoke about, which, if you read the explanatory memorandum to the Law of 2008, were for environmental impacts and charges, was a different reasoning fee than that. It didn’t even need a law, because the counties’ rewarding fees apply to everyone. There was no special airport law, if I remember correctly. Mr. Carras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, in 2008 in fact there was a complete ambiguity. But it's not the present. We've been imputing it for eight years already. I'll be allowed by the Minister to correct. The Council of State has not received any alleged rejection, there has been an inconsistency of energy due to the issue of the CRL. The municipalities therefore request the KLA and request that the public be required to issue it. They do not consider that it has been rejected. Regardless of this, however, there are indeed revenues from the airport district through PPC's accounts, but I would like to ask the Minister to verify whether they relate to the accounts of the airport company or companies operating regionally at the airport, such as the ‘OLYMPIC CATERING’, all those where municipal fees are levied on these companies. Because the 1997 Act imposed a special tax directly on the airport's construction and operation company. A second point I would ask the Minister to consider is this: I am afraid, Mr Balafas, and forgive me, that you do not have full information. What for? I will table decisions by the Council of State at the moment that have been adopted on requests from the Municipality of Artemis and Spata, which claimed lighting and cleanliness charges, so-called rewards, and the Council of State said: "The services of the airport are organized, they provide these services themselves and they are not entitled". And he annulled the count that the city and the other municipalities then had done. Therefore, the question of the imposition and collection of this special fee remains open. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me go, if you're kind enough, and I'll listen to you then very carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u46	Nobody's interrupting you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u47	In this sense, it is still pending. May I partially accept that this is an interpretative matter? I'll take it. But how many years will we look for an interpretation? If you want me to tell you, Mr Balafa, and this: take into account the fact that the law and 1997 and 2008 also includes municipalities that do not have the airport and its company in its territory. I've got a word for it. Within the administrative limits of Rafina there is no establishment of the airport and the law expressly mentions it, and so this special tax cannot be - and I give it to control - cleanliness or lighting, as it is outside the administrative limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u48	It's what I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u49	It's not exactly like that. You'll forgive me. Because there should have been a special law on pollution charges. He's never been here. I think there's an immunity too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u50	You're right. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u51	The reasoning is yes, but let a law on pollution charges for the neighbouring municipalities. We will applaud him, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u52	I think you were clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u53	To finish, if I may, we do not consider that the Council of State is dependent on the outcome of the dispute. Because the Council of State is going to come out, he'll say it's been eight years, make a decision. The Council of State will not replace the administration, it will impose a decision. Therefore, the delay of the trials, which may be appropriate, may be accidental, does not result in a solution to the problem. We'll talk again three years later about the same thing if we wait for the airport. In the meantime, uses are being deleted. I want to be absolute, Mr President. It is a five-year limitation of tax obligations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u54	Mr Balafas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u55	Because this is obviously not the end of the matter, it is an issue which has been pending for many years, and I also propose to Mr Karras that we activate the services of both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Infrastructure. Let's see it, let's not let it go. I appeal to you not to let go of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u56	I'm willing, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u57	He's been so late. Let us wait for the two-month period, anyway half is summer, of the entire Council of State - we will attend, as I said, there - and see exactly after that. All I want to say is to see the matter again. 0.5% of gross revenue is not a fee which must be paid. It is the upper limit of the money that the adventurous municipalities have to take from the airport. That doesn't matter. Let's see it again. I repeat, however, that we can see this immediately after the specific decision of the plenary we are waiting for in respect of an application for annulment of a alleged rejection. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u58	However, the plenary takes two years to adopt the decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u59	I think it was clear that the Minister was also in the mood. And because it is a matter, I think, that all the political groups will agree, after the two months that Mr Balafas has said, perhaps with a cross-party informal committee to help all together to clarify this. We continue with the third and final question Mr Balafas will answer. The first question will be discussed under number 1136-12-2016 of the Deputy Arcadias of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, on the immediate adoption of a joint Ministerial Decision on the proclamation of the affected areas of Arcadia in an emergency. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, forty-five days have passed since the disasters took place in Arcadia. You visited her and saw closely the major disasters that have occurred, both in the agricultural sector and in residential areas, in the area of Tripoli, Megalopolis, a part of the Municipality of Northern Kynouria and Gortynia. Let's see now in forty-five days where we are because it's very basic. At the meeting we held in those days we agreed on the demarcation of this region and the adoption of the joint ministerial decision to declare the area in an emergency. We would like to know where this joint ministerial decision lies. Immediately, to distinguish the two issues - both in the Megalopolis and Tripoli areas, concerning housing, business, construction, the necessary on-the-spot checks have been carried out by the region and some data have been sent from both the municipality and the region and have been completed at this stage. The second is in relation to what the municipalities have asked for. In the City of Tripoli, since my briefing, it is only 50 thousand euros and the debate is that this money is not enough. Also, the Municipality of Megalopolis has not been given any money so far, nor the six months that you discussed because of the emergency. Thirdly, we shall now go to the agricultural sector, Minister, and I would like you to pay attention to me. In the agricultural sector after forty-five days I would like to tell you where we are because yesterday we had a meeting with farmers and it is very important to know. On the control of fruit and vegetables, we are in control of the areas at 70%. We haven't even finished 100%. As far as trees, cherry, apples, browns, we're just 20%. And as far as the vineyards are concerned, we're at 0%. We did a job together with the sector and sent to your Ministry and Mr.Kourublis as Minister on July 8, 2016, a proposal for a package that could be included in the joint ministerial decision. First, for ELGA. In this exceptional need, the contributions given to the ELGA by way of compensation should be offset. Because people have been devastated and you saw it first. So this has to be included, and if it's part of the joint ministerial decision...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u61	Keep something for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u62	Yeah. What about HISBIA who in such areas is becoming specific matters? How's the Treasury? What are we doing with PPC? In specific areas where there is an emergency, you give specific possibilities. However, these must be written in the joint ministerial decision. If, through the joint ministerial decision, there are also loans for banks, that is to say, if those people who have been borrowed should be given an extension or anything else. I would ask you to let us know and tell us when the procedures will be completed and when these people will get the first advance if you want me to say so. Thank you for your tolerance, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u63	For equality because of Mr Vagiona, I left the time. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u64	Mr Constantinople, this is not the first time, and indeed with positive results that we are discussing various issues relating to your prefecture. And you do well, and we as far as we can respond so that we can move on some issues. But I have to answer your question. You have now raised issues such as the issue of agricultural crops or livestock, which are not included in your question. In your question, you say: 'What is the timetable of the government for the adoption of the joint ministerial decision?'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u65	All right, he made a general placement. It's not bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u66	I said two words, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u67	I'm going to generalize the conversation, begging the President to give me some time. But I like being typical. What is the government's timetable for the adoption of the joint ministerial decision to declare the affected areas in Arcadia in an emergency and what is the precise procedure? So let us come to the point of speaking specifically and with their name. I repeat that I find it very positive that we are discussing the issues of Arcadia in particular in the regions of Tripoli, Megalopolis - it is your homeland - of northern Kynuria and Gortini from the major disasters of 25 and 26 June from quartz, rainfall, floods. And we can make a contribution from the debate today to speed things up and make things faster, more complete. It's all right. But let me support - you have made a criticism and I must respond with a statement of knowledge and in particular - that in this particular case the state and in all its manifestations - I also include the opposition to the state's manifestations - reacted quickly, coordinatedly. We have had each other's first briefings with Mr Constantinople and the other Arcadia MPs. We met there. It was particularly characteristic of this speed and effectiveness that the Secretary-General for Civil Protection - as he owed, of course - was found in the areas of the Arcadia Prefecture in the first hours after the end of the rainfall, he looked at things and - here I would like you to pay attention, Mr Constantinople - was authorised from 27 June, two days after the disaster, the principal regulator, and the area was put on the basis of the energy of the principal regulator in an emergency. What you are asking, namely - at least according to the letter of your question - is when the Staff Regulations will be issued to declare Arcadia in an emergency. It has taken place since 27 June. Obviously it's a mistake, but I'm saying it's so someone who's watching us know that we've been waiting for the area to enter an emergency. This has happened since 27 June. From there on, you know that literally the next day, on Monday, a step by the speaker, by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Infrastructure, by the President of ELGA, framed the step with representatives of the municipalities and the region, we were on the ground. In fact, we met, we talked to the inhabitants together, we made the first assessments at first hand, we saw the real sizes of disasters - we are talking about biblical catastrophes - and we saw the first needs, but also of aid and rehabilitation in general. As regards your question, which is of particular interest, namely what is happening with the joint ministerial decision not to declare Arcadia in an emergency, but to the joint ministerial decision, in order to demarcate the affected area as a flooding, to make all the things you say in particular, therefore, Mr Constantinople, you obviously know it, needs to be activated - in the next 24 hours from the disaster - the municipalities affected and the region. They make record of damages, damages in houses, houses, businesses, shops, infrastructures in their responsibilities. In their own responsibility, the municipalities and the region are, and rightly so, recorded. That took time. It took a month and I can assure you that I was in constant contact with the mayors and with the region, Vice-President Arcadia, to speed up this process. This process, however, which is a process - I repeat - of recording, evaluating and informing residents, in order to do the documents, to comply with the deadlines, etc. He kept a month not on our own responsibility. Long time? I do not think it is too much of the experience of other regions, but in any case it is so much. At the moment, the gathering through the region has gone - and I tell you specifically - to the relevant Ministry of Infrastructure, which is responsible for adopting the joint ministerial decision to which you refer, to demarcate the affected areas as flooding areas. We believe, from the daily briefing I have, that the KYA before 20-8 will be in our hands, will be signed by the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Finance, so that the facilities that you mentioned can proceed according to the legal framework.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u68	Leave something for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u69	I shall conclude, Mr President. Different issues have come in. Facilitations for the insurance contributions of insurance institutions, for whom? For the provenly affected businesses, which exist, for the affected employers, who do exist, for the professional facilities that exist. So let's wait until 20-8. In my dentistry I shall mention the other issues that were not included in your question. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u70	Mr Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u71	As we have discussed and I think we understand, the first issue to be declared is of course a matter for the municipality and for Civil Protection, but the dominant one to go ahead with the procedures and to allow these people to be paid or anything else, has to do with the joint ministerial decision, which, as you said, will be adopted by 20 August. So we expect the joint ministerial decision to be adopted by 20 August so that these people can begin to be paid. I have three questions that you need to answer. First question: Tripoli Municipality has received the sum of 50,000 euros and considers that this amount is too small to be able to deal with these problems. The Municipality of Megalopolis has received no sums, with the information I had this morning from the mayor - I invoke him, because I have spoken with him - as well as six months in any other municipality. Let's go to the second, namely farmers and ELGA. I won't get into matters. I told you very clearly what happened until yesterday. We had a meeting with representatives from all the municipalities, the Municipality of Tripoli and the Municipality of Northern Kynouria, and we were able to see exactly what is happening. I tell you that forty-five days later there has been a record of 70% of fruit and vegetables, 30% of trees, 0% of vineyards. That's the recording. You can talk and see it. And I ask you: why do you represent the government today? Are you a speedy Minister, why are you there together with the President of the ELGA - when will the procedure be completed? When will he start paying? I have made specific suggestions to you. I told you to be the same as the netting of ELGA contributions from farmers with compensation. Also, what about ENPIA, as has been done in other areas, what about banks, what about certain debts? I hear the Treasury has made some efforts. I do not know them, we would like you to tell us about the efforts Mr Alexiadis has made. What will happen with all these procedures and when, after the joint ministerial decision has been signed, do you, as a government, start paying? Especially for the agricultural sector, Mr Minister, I tell you - and you know that, because you have seen it yourself - that if they are not paid directly or if the estimates for the money are not finished, these people will not be able to produce for the next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u72	Now, Mr Constantinople, because you have exercised command, I tell you, I wish the Minister could answer you in the second part, which was very serious what you said. But the Secretary of State for the Interior tell you whether there will be a set-off of the contributions and the obligations they have to make for the ELGA I do not know if that is the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u73	Let's see what it says first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u74	I wish, I say, but elsewhere you had to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u75	His chief...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u76	The government is united. I wish he could answer you. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u77	With all the comfort I have with Mr Constantinople, I would like to ask him: why did you not ask the question you asked?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u78	Because it's not in the timely question, within five rows.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u79	Now, I'm talking. I reply specifically to your question. In your question, which is also incorrectly formulated, it is obviously not a problem, it is not one of us that is incorrect - you mentioned all the impacts and disasters here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u80	The question was put a month ago and hoped that the issue it raises will be resolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u81	With Mr Constantinople we have a very good relationship, we have also worked together on questions in good faith to the respondent and on the problems that Mr Constantinople had posed. In any case, I will also try to place myself on this. I would like to say, therefore, that Mr Constantinople, a few days after 27 June, the assessments you mentioned, were started, the assessments made by the ELGA. Records and estimates of livestock have been completed. There are estimates of crops under way. You mentioned a percentage that I don't think is too far from that. After completion of this procedure, the findings must be made available in order to provide compensation. It is a well-established procedure for the Agricultural Insurance Agency, which is related to the Ministry of Rural Development, which is worth it. I have no objections. However, the ELGA has worked very systematically in this period, even though it has been delayed because of the valuer's strike. It is not my problem, it is not my problem, but there has been such a delay and it goes on to complete the agricultural procedure. Secondly, the prolongation of certified debts. We made the energy to the Ministry of Finance and a decision of the Ministry of Finance has already been signed, on the basis of which the certified debts are extended until the end of the year for the entire region we are discussing. Already done, you weren't asking that. I'd tell you if you asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u82	It was all within the ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u83	Also, with the KLA, which will come out on 20 August, we are making progress on other decisions concerning the compensation of undertakings. We've been going too far since the first day, and you know it. It is not one of those issues we can say that we have left it. You referred to something else. Any municipality has asked us - because that is how these things are done, you know that better than I do - to strengthen our capacity measures. Tripoli asked. I have no document from Megalopolis asking for what we are responsible for. It will not ask me for crops, for the responsibility of Mrs Fotio, or for the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. For what we have responsibilities within the municipalities, we must ask for support. Not even the other municipalities have asked. Where Tripoli asked us we have helped, and if necessary, we will come back and continue this help. Finally, to keep you fully informed, I would like to tell you that we attended the Berbert region that afternoon, when we were together, we were there, we saw the suffering of the inhabitants and the flooded fields, which was largely caused by this biogas plant, which has been built and progressed, and we were able by our intervention in the Decentralised Administration to remove the approvals for environmental effects and to stop the work in this plant, which could have only been adversely affected in this area and could have proved to be in the very great flood that hit the area. In this sense and in all respects I have, the phrase - so that we can get an agreement, a correct reason - 'no step has been taken', I think there is an information gap.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u84	You're done, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u85	We'll see it in 20 days.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u86	Good, Mr. Constantinople, the grace of Panagia other than health has resolved the allowances of ELGA. There are three more topical questions. Two are of the Golden Dawn colleagues and one of the Central Association's colleagues to the Deputy Minister, Nikolao Toska, who is present and always attending, because he is one of these ministers coming. The fourth question under number 1122/11-7-2016 will be discussed in the context of a topical and urgent debate on "criminal and terrorist organisations that act undisturbed at the most central point in the capital". Mr. Toskas will answer that question in time. Mr. Cassidy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u87	We should start by congratulating the men of the Greek Police, the Security Bodies, on the success of the arrest of the dangerous left-wing terrorists, the anarchist Sejcidis and Sakka. Of course, we must stress that Saccas would have been in prison for many years, not free to commit crimes if the political coverage of SYRIZA was not there. And here I must denounce this political coverage of SYRIZA and the government to terrorists. And because we're always talking about documentary and evidence, I'm going to testify to these photos in the minutes of this House. The President of Parliament himself, Mr. Voutsis, along with the Secretary General of the present left-wing government, on 27-6-2013, at a press conference on the release of Costas Sakka. By an official announcement SYRIZA said in those days that the continued detention of Sakka exposes the country. The following day, the current Minister of SYRIZA Kontonis visited him and on 10-7-2013 there was another press conference, calling for the release of Sakka, where he gave the present and participated by Dricas, the current Minister of the left government of SYRIZA. So these who are arrested by the Greek Police are released because they are covered by SYRIZA. Here, the photo reads "economic support to Kostas Sakkas" by a political party conference that is currently, unfortunately, ruling the country. They're government children, terrorists, we've proved it with documentaries. Of course, I should also like to go to the subject of my question today. There are unsolved murders by the murder of Nektarios Savvas, the sergeant of the counterterrorism and Socrates Giolia from the “Revolutionary Sheep”, this terrorist organization that has not disappeared. There is very specific evidence. I'm not going to testify to the House, the rest is known to the authorities. There are telephone conversations of the "Fires of Fire", where they say that if it succeeds, i.e. if the bomb explodes and people who had sent to the Iteas Police Department, we should write another text to charge this crime the "Korea", i.e. the "Revolutionary Set". They are all sharing vessels and of course all of them until the male murder of the two children of the Golden Dawn in New Heracle of Giorgos Fountoulis and Manos Capelonis, who in an unacceptable way remain unresolved today and cover up the specific criminals who are obviously the same criminals who murdered, as well as the sergeant of the Domokos Domofim Galimanis. In the House, then, the Golden Dawn must highlight the constant crime in the covertness of these terrorists. Because there are - unfortunately there are - the highest levels of police and some jury and I have tabled concrete evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u88	The rest in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u89	Just because there is timeliness, Mr President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u90	No, I didn't, I'm telling the rest in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u91	I believe that the Minister will refer to the timeliness and the issue of the arrests of these terrorists.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u92	But finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u93	In my denture I have to say about Exarches, I have to say very serious issues, I will come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u94	Okay. Give me, if you like, what you said about the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Kasidiaris, presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister Nikolaos Toskas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, yesterday's success, which is the success of the government, of the prosecution authorities, is precisely the signal that we are endless to those who violate the law. Now, for this reluctance and stir of the past with the present and my responsibilities on the Left, I think I don't have to insist very much, because every intelligent man understands. Currently, it is precisely the fact of the successes of the Greek Police, and that is the important thing. We are in contact with the residents of the Exarchates - because I am going to get to the bottom of the issue, precisely where the question is directed - and with those who need it, in order to create an environment of safety and that is what every intelligent person understands again. We don't act on a night for impressions with a gun spear, and we forget the rest of the days. We're working on a system. We're working surgery, wherever it takes. We're working trying to solve a problem without creating another hundred. Of course, Golden Dawn is afraid of that, because the Golden Dawn wants to fish in the blurs. So far, it seems that only a negative contribution was made by the Golden Dawn and not to represent the friends of neither the Greek Police, nor the public order, nor the security. A foreign body is in all these situations and the Greek people and those who have suffered the consequences of its actions are well aware. These, of course, come a day after the violence and frescoes that were used yesterday against fellow Members and the environment, which you yourself lived in the House yesterday from the demagogy and events of the Golden Dawn. They're the last ones who can control such situations. They prepare the climate of their own action, since they are well known for their deception of democracy. But I will stick to the questions of the question in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u97	I'm sorry about that minister's misfortune. For the photos I've indicated, which are specific documentaries, I'm sure you don't have to answer, because then he was in PASOK, I think, he wasn't at SYRIZA. Let a SYRIZA executive answer this question. I repeat that I denounced specific political behaviour, which led to the covertness of certain terrorists, which the New Democracy of course also has responsibility for, because then it was the terrible and terrible and criminal twin of Athanasios - Treasury in the administration of the Ministry of Education and Justice. They're not responsibilities too. As far as the Greek police are concerned, however, a foreign body - for ELAS - is the terrorist left that runs the country. Golden Dawn is a political party. Now, if this political party, the Golden Dawn party, there are too many Greek policemen who vote and support it, I would urge the Minister to stop exercising ideological terrorism on them. In Greece all citizens are free to vote and support any party they want under the law. So I'm continuing with my question. He told us that something is going on in Exarchia to impose legitimacy. I know that two days ago, in the worst way, two sacred churches, the Zoodochus Source at the Academy and the Holy Kingdom in Exarchia, were desecrated. Of course, in Exarchia there was no induction, because Exarchia is unbaptized. The government of SYRIZA prefers to take the Greek Posts, to take the public services out of exarchates, because this is an agreement with the specific "collectualities", as the Minister said. He will see - he says - 'collectivity' the Minister. Can he name us what these collectives are? Because all the collectives I know in Exarcheus are involved in either terrorism or molotov bombs and other crimes and serious felonies. This timely question was tabled a month ago, but it remains extremely timely even today, when we saw the disgracefulness of the University of Thessaloniki. We have, of course, seen disgrace at universities for decades. It's nothing new. Tsipras can rightly say: “And what happened? I, when I was young and participated in these events, was the New Democracy in the Government." When Athens burned in 2008, of course, the government was right. And with right-wing and left-wing governments we face the same disgrace. And there, the only solution, at last, is to impose legitimacy, to do what is laid down in the law. And the law stipulates that the police operation is being conducted at a time when we have an autofoulous felony inside the university. There is no need for any order at all. The law states that, in other words, when we have distinguished thefts to a degree of felony, such as the ones that took place in Thessaloniki, the police intervene immediately and put handcuffs on all these criminals. I have had too much to say, Mr President. We saw the famous anarchist organization of "Rubicon" parade through the Exarcheia, swinging automatic weapons. And the first leaks from some police circles then, of these jurors I mentioned - unfortunately there are some who are caught with their presence by the Greek Police and I have mentioned specific names, they are not here to do this analysis - when we watched terrorists screaming the guns and the automatic ones, they go out and say "Let the children, the guns are fake". These weapons, which have killed our fellow citizens, Nektarios Savvas, Socrates Giolias, Seraphim Galimanis, Giorgos Fodoulis and Mano Capelonis, are not fake! They are weapons of some killers who will one day be brought before justice. That's why Golden Dawn can be bound. Whatever the left government, which covers terrorists, as with documentary evidence, and not with dedications, as the Minister does, guarantees the Golden Dawn that all these criminals will be brought before justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u98	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. It is clear that those who undermine democracy are exploiting democratic processes. We are all criticising in this area, but we are criticising to improve democracy, improve parliamentary institutions, improve the functioning of democratic institutions. However, some are criticised to undermine democracy and parliamentary institutions. And its underminers cannot be honorers of democracy and institutions. From there on, democracies, you know, sometimes slow. And he knows that well, the Golden Dawn, because he knows the story and the May of the '45s. The democracies are slowing down, those democracies that their inspiration accused them of 'plagues'. And I use the term used by their inspiration. However, these blatant democracies seemed to have been - and are - more effective in establishing democratic institutions, in consolidating dominance and not predominating the authoritarian institutions and the authoritarian states. From that point on, on the question of the Exarchates, you saw how effective it was, 30 years later, than police officers say, the Greek Police. In a systematic and surgical way, he caught a large part of the drug mafia. And that wasn't just a day's business. And you'll see that then. From this side of the Golden Dawn, no one says anything about it, because they want to fish, as I said before, in the blush waters. It helps them to have tension situations, to fish right there and to create their own undermining situations. We will not allow that, and I do not believe that the majority of this Parliament will allow it. Because, here, we must support those conditions that create security and not those conditions that cause security and undermine democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u100	We continue with the fifth under No. 1095/5-7-2016 second question of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the position of Vice President of the Centre for Security Studies. Mr. Panayotus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin, I would like to say that yesterday, during the verbal controversy, you said you would throw me out of the Chamber. I think your expression, Mr President, was very wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u102	I didn't say that. I said I would use the Rules of Procedure to leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u103	No, that was your expression. You can see that in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u104	And I don't regret saying so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u105	Secondly, you said that there are no statements of repentance in this House or otherwise. The question was very clear and it was not answered, that is to say, whether this Member, Mr Zabek Hussein, supports that there is a Turkish minority or not in Thrace, something that he has done a garrison, because everyone knows his position very well. Anyway. Minister, in May 2016 you appointed Ms. Tsukalas Anastasias, forensician, as Vice President of the Security Research Centre of the Ministry of the Interior. Its job is to draw up a number of studies on the security policies of the Ministry, as well as to give advice. If we look a little further back into the recent past, in a series of lectures in 2013 Mrs Tsukala at the School of Greek Police had reported fascist positions of escapist officers and insisted on these complaints. A preliminary administrative examination was ordered, a finding came out that there is absolutely nothing, the case was filed, but she insisted. After a few months, a few months, in December 2014, we saw what "fascist attitudes" meant and her political beliefs, which she could not hide, when she was associated with the parents of Romanos, Michaelides and Bourzoukos on various subjects, which these three had. Mrs. Tsukala protested not to grant permits. We see it as a soldier - and we call it very light, very lightly - on the left. Do you think that this lady will be able to work unbiasedly and unwittingly on your most important post on security issues? The question is a specific one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u106	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, the question is not a question and it is not a timely one. What's the matter? What does Mr. Panayotarus say? Is Mrs. Tsukala inappropriate? Mrs Tsukala is Deputy Professor of Criminology at the University of Paris XI, a researcher at the University of Paris V - Sorbonne and an external partner of the Recherche Centre for Studies of Conflicts in France and many other institutes. She's been teaching five years, she's a professor at the Police Academy Schools. He was Vice-Chairman of the Management Board of the Centre for Security Studies and the previous year. Her term of office has recently been renewed when a renewal of the members of the Management Board took place. He is a specialist, therefore, in anti-crime policy, he is an expert on conflict issues and is a security expert. I asked for the opinion of the scientific community. The scientific community said the best words. He has huge experience and experience in this area of Greek Police Schools and the area of CEMEA. From that point on, if Mr Panayotaros is nostalgic of the control of political opinions, I am sorry, but I will not go into this search for the political opinions of the teachers and the members of the scientific councils. I am interested in the scientific work and only the scientific work carried out in the framework of the CEMEA and with this understanding was selected and based on its prehistoric history in this area and its scientific training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u108	Here, Mr. Panayotare, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you said he was an expert on anti-crime policy. How? Defending terrorists and criminals? You said that you do not control its political opinions or anyone else's political opinions. When she expressed opinions within the School of Greek Police and tried to smear and stigmatize all the cadets who were in this school, do you think that this is something that shows that she is doing a ruthless, unbiased job? After all, since it is also in the Centre for Studies, is your statement to discuss 'with the various collectives'? So we now baptize the exarchist criminals. Perhaps you know better than me that the residents of the Exarchates are shaking these collectives. They dare not open their mouths. With twisted backs, we see them all in the media or elsewhere trying to tell what's going on. And it is not just the Albanian mafia that you have done very well and dismantled it, there are many other mafias there. It is something that has been going on for many years now. But, you see, this is the "early cow", which no one dares to touch. Is Mrs. Tsukala really going to pay for the cracks of her ideological friends at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki? Because the Greek state will pay 40 thousand euros. Or Mrs Tsukala prepared a study, as you said in your previous answer to a simple question we asked about the occupation of a hotel belonging to someone in Exarchia, and you replied that a complaint has been filed with strangers. But who are strangers? He was inside! They weren't strangers, they were known, they couldn't be known. Or is Mrs Tsukala doing you studies that - since everything is well in Exarchia - should public services close, close the Post Office, since every day they vandalised it and dissolved it? Mrs. Tsukala is preparing all these studies to change public transport routes and not to pass in front of the Polytechnic, why are they burning them? If that's possible! Well, since you don't want to see her political beliefs, which she herself is frustrating by chasing the cadets of the Police School, then in practice her studies are probably for the garbage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u110	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, I do not know whether Mrs Tsukala is unwanted in the circles of the Golden Dawn. I'm sorry, but I forgot to submit her CV for Golden Dawn approval or to ask a theory for "Mein Kampf". To finish Mrs Tsukala's theme, so I judged, so I decided and you cannot be honored by the selection procedures of the members of the CEDEFOP as long as I am the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u112	As a result, we are judging.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u113	The results you see, even if you do what you don't see, because they don't suit you or want you to go through your own conception of undermining. The results will be seen in many directions and in places that are very close to your perceptions. Therefore, do not "express yourself in the gypsy of tsapani", because you know how surgically, how scientifically and how systematically the police, whose members believe in democracy, believe in the Constitution, believe in the laws. And let's stay here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u114	We move on to the last question to Mr Toska, the sixth under number 1120/11-7-2016, a topical question for the second cycle of MP I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the fire protection system of the Sheikh Sou. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you will allow me in a minute to give you a picture that will strengthen the substance of the question, but will also raise awareness of your human side, which will play an ancillary role in your capacity, in which you assume the responsibility of giving solutions under any circumstances, but also create the best conditions for the country. Minister, on 6 July 1997, at 15:35, the fire department's phone's ringing and says the Sheich Sue is on fire. At 15.50" from Thessaloniki Airport takes off an airplane and informs that there are four fires on the cedar hill. At 16 noon, the competent services are mobilizing. At 17:30 the hour the first fires arrive at home, the residents protest, because they see no flying means. At 17:40, the Prefecture states that all flying means are on the ground because of damage. At 18:45 PPC substation burns, becomes blackout all over the city. The whole city is driven into panic, no information, no power. At 18.50 a.m., the first plane passes over Shah Soo. At 20:30, the "XENOCARATIS" project and two hundred spectators without equipment are just sitting and looking at the fire. All this, Minister, should show us twenty years later that night that Thessaloniki was burning and the government in Athens was just looking at something we should have learned. However, years ago, a project began to be carried out in the woods of Shahih Sou, a firework essentially of the forest, a project that the Fire Service currently does not receive, a work that does not work, so there is a very great danger to the only peri-urban forest in the city. My question is, Minister, why isn't the Fire Service receiving it? Why isn't the project working? Who's responsible for this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u116	Good. Let's go to more calm water, Mr. Toska. Here, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. Saridis. I'll confess something to you. When you first asked the question, I thought it was a very old story. So what are we looking for? But you did well to ask this question. Looking for things, I see that your question forces us to learn lessons from how public spending was done, how the various fireworks were done, so that at least we avoid the same mistakes. In 1997, in fact, Thessaloniki suffered this huge catastrophe in the woods of Shah Sou. You know better, so fix me if I'm wrong. Of the twenty-five thousand acres, half, 55% burned in July 1997. Let's hope we're never gonna see this kind of disaster again. A number of projects have been decided to avoid such disasters in the future. In 2001 these projects began - about eleven in number - which was also a project to detect fires using geographical information systems, i.e. with cameras, with various other electronic systems, which would identify in time and notify the Fire Service of the upcoming danger. In 2010 this work was finished, so it was supposed to be taken, as I see here and a question to the parliamentary scrutiny that was then made by Mr Karaoglou, to which Mr Sifounakis replied. It was therefore to be received in 2010. Why was this work not received? What happened then? The region - several regions, but we are going to this particular region - has done various projects, has done this work in the absence of the Fire Service. The Fire Service was not informed either to give nor to cooperate. So how could the Fire Service receive a project that it had not given its opinion, had it not contributed to being more effective? A number of cameras were purchased in this project. I am told that a small number of cameras have been installed, around seven, of which others have now been destroyed, while others have been lost and have been lost by the incidents of cameras, i.e. cables and so forth. We are therefore in this difficult situation. We have before us a project that should have been received in 2010. It has not been received and it seems that - I certainly do not have all the elements at the time - it has not been received by the Fire Service because it was not complete and it was not in line with its standards. Then they were lost or destroyed by various materials and you understand that this poses a problem in today's acceptance, in today's receipt of this work by the Fire Service. And what do we do now, will you tell me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u118	You'll see it in your dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u119	In my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u120	Because I realized that that was where you were going, so I told the Minister to leave it for dentistry. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u121	What do we do now? As I said in my prototype, the Minister's position is to give solutions and create the conditions that are essential in order to be able to provide solutions. Minister, it is a pretext that the flying firearms we currently have in the country are not enough. If fires like Chios erupt at the same time in Greece, the place will burn. I have here too many questions from colleagues from various parties, from the Centro Association, from Potami, from New Democracy, which I am presenting for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Saridis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These questions essentially seek to learn from the Ministry of National Defence and from the Ministry yours, about the completeness we have on board. It's a little. That's the reality. Do you want, because of our Memorandum of Understanding, that we cannot proceed to purchase equipment? It's a little. On the other hand, we have a perimeter forest in Thessaloniki, like all the forests of the country, which is wealth, it is a source of wealth and we must protect them. It is not easy to replace this source of wealth when it is lost. Where do I want to end up? We have, not only in Thessaloniki, but we must also have in other regions of Greece such projects, which have been done. I do not know if they are working, but with very small funds, which I do not know who will be charged, whether they will be charged or borne by the Greek State - so much money we give - they can actually be activated. We can move on. This is a monitoring project. As you quite rightly said, these cameras were high-definition and could "enhance" the whole forest. Any fireplace, at that time, could be caught by the cameras and the alarms given.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u122	That's why they stole them because they were high-definition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u123	Yeah. But the money was given. That's the reality. And as we are well aware, the largest amount of funding has been allocated by the European Union. Mr Minister, I believe, for my part, that you have the opportunity, in cooperation with the other ministries - and here it seems, in fact, the government's cooperation between it - to provide a solution to this great problem, which burns down the city of Thessaloniki. If the forest is lost there's nothing to make up for, no way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u124	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u125	I, Mr Saridis, am not one of those who find a problematic situation, drop the shit out of the previous ones and sit quietly in their chair. I believe that we need to correct what was wrong, in order to improve the various situations, in this case fire protection in Shah Sue. If these cameras - I don't know what's missing and what's not missing - are placed by the district, the Fire Service will examine the possibility of covering even partially the fire needs of Shah Soo. Our aim is to contribute to everything that exists, as we contribute to the old '74 planes, as we contribute to the old fire-fighting cars, despite the huge problems that exist in the equipment. You have recently seen how effective the fire-fighting operation in Evia was, mainly because of good organisation and coordination. For the next year we need to consider - and we need to look here with a serious debate, with consensus - the enormous problems that have arisen and how we can deal with them. We are already looking at them - we do not have much time in front of us until next summer - because we really cannot move on as we go on until now, with huge deficiencies or by pushing the problems under the carpet. They'll need consents, they'll need scientific knowledge, they'll need a conversation. And I believe that all sides within this space will contribute in this direction. So I answered you about Sheich Sue. I'm answering now for the future course...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u126	Also, Minister, you did not answer me from now on: If the region puts the cameras, will you consider seeing the project?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u127	We will consider the possibility of seeing the project, but we do not know at the moment what is missing, what is not missing and what is going on. We should contact the region immediately to see how we can deal with the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u128	We will also help in this, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much, Mr Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. I would like to wish the parliamentary authors, the employees of the Parliament, the men and women of the Greek police, who are taking care of us and my colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-05-S1-commons.u131	With the consent of the House at 12.05 p.m. the sitting on Monday, August 29, 2016, at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
