ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. The quorum shall be established, the meeting shall be opened. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of the mandate of the Heads of Institutional Units of the Chamber, the Conference of Presidents on 1-2-2015 decided unanimously to extend the term of office until 30 April 2016, in view of the new crises by the Service Council. I would ask you to agree on this, and I believe that we shall agree unanimously, and here too, because it was decided unanimously in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u2	The House unanimously agreed and decides that the mandate of the Heads of Institutional Units of the Chamber is extended until 30 April 2016, in view of the new crises by the Board of Directors. It is announced to the House that the President of the Group of the Democratic Independence (PASOK - DIMAR) of Mrs Fofi Generations and the Members of her party tabled on 02-02-2016 a proposal for a Law on Guaranteeed Social Income - Strengthening Social Protection and Inclusion. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Furthermore, the Ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy, Development and Tourism, National Defence, Education, Research and Religion, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Culture and Sport, Economics and Deputy Ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Finance, tabled a draft law on 03-02-2016: "National Register of Officials of Public Administration, Dynamic Structure of Positions, Systems of Assessment, Promotions and Selection of Heads (Transparency - Religion and Effectiveness of Public Administration)". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and with Mr v. Commission Regulation (EC) No 3126/2003 ‘Prime responsibility of the Ministers’, as in force on 3-2-2016, criminal proceedings concerning: Firstly, the former Minister for the Environment, Energy and Climate Change, Mr Ioannis Maniotis. Secondly, to the late Ministers of Finance, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights during the period from 1-7-2011 to 16-1-2015. Also, the MP, Apostle Veyropoulos, seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad. In particular, he writes: ‘To Mr Voutsi, In this letter, Mr President, I request a three-day absence from abroad to Germany, from Wednesday 3 February to Friday 5 February. Please approve my absence permit. With appreciation, Apostle Vesiropoulos, MP of Imathia". Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u3	The House approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Preparation of the Arms Trade Treaty'. The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. If I saw the Practical, it is the Golden Dawn, which voted negatively, 'against' and the Communist Party that voted'residents'. Let's start, first of all, with Mr. Pappa on behalf of the Golden Dawn. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, we will be putting the treaty today with the authorization granted to us by the Rules of Procedure, having voted 'against' to the Commission. I was very surprised at the Commission which, in its statement, was anti-imperialist and anti-war KICs voted'residents'. This Treaty is supposed to prevent the illicit trade in conventional weapons as defined in the Treaty. However, the illicit trade in conventional weapons, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be tackled under any circumstances, since the countries that sign these treaties themselves fuel, through their secret services and known arms dealers, war zones and terrorists. The last example is the war in Syria, where US weapons of latest technology were found in the possession of terrorists. As far as the Treaty is concerned, it is pretextary and inexperienced. For the first time, we have read about arms trade aimed at peaceful purposes, unless 'peaceful' means equipment for Arab Spring Islamics. Access to legitimate martial production companies is not restricted or facilitated by the draft law, as, for example, access to foreign markets for Greek defence companies is restricted by the authorisation to issue such material by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which, in order to issue this licence, takes the Ok from the State Department. To say this simply, a Greek company may be banned from selling weapons to third countries, but they sell weapons to American companies that are lawful or illegal, legally or illegally selling. The draft law actually simplifys the procedures for the carriage and issue of licences. The treaty, anyway, cannot affect where weapons will end and whether or not they will end up in non-legal hands. Article 7 shows us the hypocrisy of this treaty. There are some conditions to be checked to make arms exports, such as contributing or undermining peace and security, use for a provision or facilitating a serious violation of humanitarian law, committing or facilitating an action which is an offence under international conventions. In this sense, no arms exports can be made. Nowhere can we export arms. Who will judge how the export material will be exploited? When, for example, we as Greece will sell defence material to Ukraine will not be exploited in military actions? So it's been written for Ukraine in the press lately. This was because of the written question to Mr Kammens on 22 January of the current one, which remains unanswered. Not to talk now about arms trafficking in African countries, as in the treaty things are being analysed that in practice rather touch the philosophy of law. It concludes in Article 26 that accession to the Arms Trade Treaty is without prejudice to obligations undertaken by the Contracting State and does not annul transnational defence cooperation agreements. So we do not see how this Treaty will work at a'suppressive' level. So, in practice, how will sanctions be imposed on a State operating outside the framework of the Treaty? In practice, that does not seem to be the case, because there is simply no effective sanction. With the UN Secretary as the guardian of the Treaty and a secretariat supposed to monitor all procedures for the trafficking and licensing of ammunition and weapons is supposed to be formally audited. Check on who and check on who, since the military material is moving illegally and unconventionally anyway finds other courses. The hypocrisy here is great and the depositary is the UN Secretary General, who did not effectively assist our Cyprus in 1974, who cannot intervene in the massacres by the Islamics of ISIS, the UN who in practice does not intervene anywhere and never. The UN has no chance of having its seat in New York and is essentially an instrument of American imperialism, the UN which has harmed and damaged our national interests under the various conditions of Annan, the pressures and mediation for the name of our Macedonia, etc. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In general, large countries with a strong military industry are being facilitated by this treaty, if they so wish, and on the contrary they are trying to limit themselves to small countries to selling arms to third countries. They are mainly facilitated by armed systems and neo-taxial interests. So our position is clearly negative, not only for what I mentioned about this treaty, but also for the government's policy, which 'provides the greatest' at the moment and is a government that has a 'offer' at the place. And what is the government's "offer" to the place? The government, both the left-wing, memorial, neoliberal and the right-wing neoliberal - supposedly - managed to unite, unite, unite and unite the forces that express the fairs of the Greek people who strike. The people today accepted the 'left chemicals'. Are the 'left chemicals' better than the right, Minister? The people - and I close - in front of the farmers, united in the streets and squares in a struggle that now takes the form of a palal rebellion. Golden Dawn is written with the struggling Greek people and expresses in society as well as in Parliament the only national opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u6	On behalf of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Tassos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Today, in the debate on the UN Convention on arms trafficking, we are talking about the hypocrisy of the power of the bourgeoisie. Tomorrow at the rural debate we'll talk about her cynicism. It's the two sides of the same coin. I am saying hypocrisy because, in fact, it refers to the explanatory statement and its preamble that the objectives of the Treaty are likely to be blocked and eliminated - here put what you miraculously want - the illicit trade in conventional weapons and their diffusion to the illegal market, as well as the facilitation of access to the markets for legitimate contracted equipment companies. They want imperialist forces and arms multinationals to set certain rules in the game of arms purchase and sale, to increase their profits and to control, without other intermediaries, the arms market. They also seem very interested in preventing the dispersion of conventional weapons that can reach the hands of terrorist organisations. And here, indeed, the size of hypocrisy is disgusting. Who have formerly deployed the Taliban against the then Soviet Union or Al-Qaeda and more recently the anti-democratic and fascist government of Ukraine and the Islamic groups in Syria, from which ISIS emerged, in order to cast Assad? The arms trade, legal or illegal, will rise as long as the sovereignty of the capitalists, who seek by all means even subjugating wars and conflicts, take away the profits, in this case, of the state war industries and the multinational arms companies. I would like to make a few partial remarks on the articles of the Treaty. In Article 2, in conjunction with Article 5, in particular paragraph 3, in the scope of the Treaty, all conventional weapons fall outside of the scope of the Treaty, which is why Member States are to encourage them to apply the provisions of the Treaty to the widest extent of conventional weapons and not to circumvent their application through national definitions of certain categories of weapons, such as unmanned aircraft, great drones, so as to exclude them from the application of the Treaty, perhaps because they consider them as a kind of office, because the work is done through the office. With regard to Articles 6 and 7, the Treaty is supposed to lay down certain rules to prevent the spread of conventional weapons to users who violate international law and promote terrorism. However, the relevant arrangements are full of feasibility, hypocrisy and are perforated, allowing for breaches of the relevant obligations. For example, in paragraph 1 of Article 6, there is talk of a ban on the export of conventional weapons to countries where on the basis of UN Security Council decisions there is an arms embargo, in countries which, in the interests and choices of imperialists, are considered hostile. And at the same time, they can equip undisturbed forces, even the most extremes, that can serve their interests against hostiles. And in order to have their hands broken even further, on the basis of Article 6(3), a country can slip away from the planned ban on exporting conventional weapons, claiming that at the time of export authorisation it did not know that the arms it exports would be used to commit genocide, crimes against humanity, attacks on civilians and civilians and other war crimes. At a time when imperialists themselves, in order to serve their interests, are arming the most extreme, inhuman, and even paramilitary forces in Syria, Ukraine, and where land is supposedly prevented under Article 7, where there is talk of evaluating licensing, exporting conventional weapons on the basis of the assessment of certain risks and criteria. However, there is no question of the risk that conventional weapons that will be used to commit or facilitate serious acts of racial violence or serious acts of violence against women and children. Mercy! In Article 8 of the Treaty, there is talk of State assistance in which conventional weapons will be introduced in the assessment by the State which exports them as to whether it will be possible to export through documentation allegedly of the end-use or end-user, as if there is a control or sanctions mechanism for where the weapons will end. Hypocrisy in all her majesty. The application of the Treaty shall be left to the Contracting Parties and shall be voluntary. There are no, nor can there be any, substantial sanctions. Article 12 therefore refers to the issue by each of the Contracting States of export licences or exports of conventional arms or their encouragement to keep arms records transferred to their territory as a final destination or referred to in Article 13, for the submission of an initial report by each Contracting State to the Secretariat of the Treaty on measures for the implementation of the Treaty, but also for periodic reporting, whenever new measures are taken to implement the Treaty, but may be omitted by reference to commercially sensitive elements or information of national security. It is also provided for in Article 15 international cooperation between States in order to implement the Treaty, but with a limit of safety and national legislation every year. With Article 16 in the whole game, the famous NGOs are in a position, since, in the context of the international assistance that may be given to a country that requested it, for the purpose of implementing the Treaty, they can provide assistance outside the UN and other international organisations and NGOs, which have been created to deal with peace movements and which are supported by US dollars, to promote and enforce US foreign and defence policy, NGOs who have been and are vehicles of the State Department and are led by the USA and US embassies, as Michael Ignatius says. As you can see, this analysis shows that this treaty has only been done so that imperialists and multinationals of arms can sell their weapons to anyone who wants to be legally, always for profit, economic and geostrategic interests. It's a memorial of hypocrisy that has the wolf guarding the sheep. So we can only vote against it in principle and on articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u8	Minister, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u9	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u10	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the ratification of the United Nations Arms Trade Treaty, adopted on 3 April of 2013 by the General Assembly of the United Nations Organisation, entered into force on 24 December 2014, following the completion of fifty sanctions, as provided for in the United Nations procedures. Up to now, the ratification process for the implementation of this Treaty has been completed by seventy-seven countries, including twenty-six Member States of the European Union, and it is noted that Greece and Cyprus are the only two Member States which have not completed the internal procedures for ratification of the Treaty, until now ratified by the Greek Parliament. What is the objective of the Treaty? The objective set out is to create a global regulatory framework for the lawful trading of conventional weapons, aimed at limiting the illicit market and trafficking, including cases of terrorism and criminal acts. An important element of this Treaty under ratification is the fact that its scope is exclusively international transnational relations and does not affect the internal legal order and national sovereignty of each Contracting State, which, after ratification, will still retain the power to regulate exclusive contractual weapons within its territory, in accordance with its national legislative system. Ladies and gentlemen, on this point we must be aware that Greece has already - we did not expect the ratification of this agreement - is applying strict standards on the issue of export licences for conventional weapons and ammunition, on the basis of the legally binding code of conduct of the European Union, which was incorporated into Greek legislation with n. 3944/2011 and this may answer some questions raised by the Golden Dawn side. With regard to the content of the treaty in force, which we have only to say that all procedural matters are laid down in this respect. For example, the categories of conventional weapons, the obligation on States to apply the same criteria for the authorisations of the relevant ammunition and the obligation on States Parties to maintain a national control system which will monitor their transfer, the proposed bans on the transfer of materials, the obligations of the importer and the measures to be taken, and the obligation on States to keep national records on the authorisations issued by the competent authorities for the export of conventional weapons. Ladies and gentlemen, finally for drawing up the ratification treaty, the Contracting States have taken into account the fact that trade in conventional weapons, which are illegal, the functioning of a non-regulatory framework has a significant negative, humanitarian, economic, social dimension and, in addition, poses serious security risks. The participation of our country in this Treaty is considered appropriate, considering in particular that, in our sensitive wider geographical area, Greece will benefit from the introduction of rules and controls on the movement of conventional weapons - we will benefit - in addition to what we are already applying as member states of the European Union. With the draft law which has been widely accepted in the committee responsible, we have covered an international legal vacuum which is currently being exploited. Implementation of the Treaty will help reduce arms smuggling and reduce the means of criminal and terrorist organisations, while facilitating access to the markets for legitimate enterprises. Be careful, the main question is whether we are taking a step forward for what we all want, for the illicit trade in arms and in general for arms. It's a step. It shall be the depositary of the Secretary-General of the United Nations. Are we helping with the ratification of the work of the secretary and the international organizations? We're helping. The point is not to deport the international organisations that go in this direction, but to strengthen them. And I think that this ratification, quite rightly and correctly, has been achieved by the overwhelming majority of the parties who participated in the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u13	Here you go, Mr. Dendia. What do you want? On this subject, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, I would like to say to you, if you like, that we should finish the debate, because I would also like to extend to two things outside the debate because of the day.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u15	Well, because other parliamentarians have asked for it, we'll close the draft law. Then all the Members of Parliament will speak, beginning with Mr Dendia, lastly, with a strict three-minute time and in violation of - I take responsibility - for the Rules of Procedure. I'll hear it from Mr. Voutsi, not unfairly. I will ask one - a party and Mrs Vaki - because she will have to answer to everyone, instead of three, I will give her five minutes. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u16	We therefore unanimously agree on this procedure. The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is closed: 'Preparation of the Arms Trade Treaty'. Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u17	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u18	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u19	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Following the Arms Trade Treaty' was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, the articles and the whole, which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u20	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u21	The House has given the mandate requested. Mr Teddy, as a parliamentary representative, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, listening to my State Secretary, it was the impression that it was a smooth day, in a smooth process, in a smooth European country, which is coming to ratify an international obligation. Unfortunately, however, nothing but this is happening. First of all, it is not a normal day, because just in front of the National Representation building, thousands of fellow citizens have protested against the views that the government is leaking and disseminating on the handling of both the insurance and the tax. I have to say that they are absolutely right and that is perfectly understandable, because if government ideas, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens are going to face survival difficulties. It is the government's idea, both in insurance and tax, of a threat to the remaining level of Greeks' lives. However, this in itself would not give me the courage to ask for your permission to take advantage of these three minutes outside the Rules of Procedure you have the kindness to give me. What forces me to address the National Representation, Minister, is the schizoid of the matter. What do I mean? What is happening in Greece is beyond description in any country in the world, either in sub-Saharan Africa or in any part of the world, where the geography that we know does not allow us to understand exactly how it works. I am referring to the fact that while the government is spreading a grid of ideas on the one hand, it talks to the national Parliament on the other with the Prime Minister, and it negotiates or in any case exchanges ideas with the Troika in a luxury hotel a few hundred meters away, the SYRIZA party, the party that governs, calls on the Greek society to take part in the demonstrations against the government and against the ideas of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, we must have fundamental respect for Greek society. We can, if you like, force it, make mistakes, deprive it of a framework which, as a long-term objective, aims at national survival, from the necessary daily resources. But what the government majority does, Mr President, is to iron Greek society and iron it deeply. To come to a government party and call on Greek society to protest against what it itself defends and implements it is a deepening of irony! I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that you look at and read this in the preamble to the memorandum which was ratified and which, in the first place, bears the signature of the Prime Minister, Mr Alexis Tsipras, you have undertaken a basic obligation: the ownership of this memorandum. The English term is ‘othership’. So you, who own this memorandum, are disseminating the ideas to the national Parliament. Understood, acceptable. Here we can compare ourselves with the Rules of Procedure of the House. But you have no right - and I ask you not to do so from now on - to ironize the Greek society in this way! I would ask you to show your respect for moments and leave what - frankly I say to you - my party and I feel it is a deepest insult.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u23	On behalf of the Golden Dawn, the Parliamentary Representative, Mr Papapas, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u24	Both of them are enough, Mr President. I listened with great interest to the position of the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, and I will say it as anyone who's going to tell us right now on television: look who's talking! We have heard a schizophrenic - let me say - position of the representative of the neoliberal right-wing Memorandum, which opposes - it is assumed - the representatives, the main ministers, the left-wing neoliberal Memorandum. Mr President, chemical substances, whether on the right or on the left, are no longer chemicals! We, Mr President, are not here for voters' reasons or pretending to be a virtual reality, such as the lionisms and the so-called 'cutting' that Mr Denkias has just done here. He is the one who voted in favour of the Memorandum on 14 August. Then we remember the temporary president of the New Democracy, who kept saying to Mr Tsipras in his speech that famous evening of the memorandum, where people had also taken their nap in here: 'Declar the agreement and the measures are yours'. Now they're disarming? The memorandum did not contain the measures and the insurance, which they supposed - today - say they will not vote on? You've already done the damage, Mr. Teddy. There was a chance that you might be rescued as a party, if, in the summer, in August, you voted “no. ” So you have followed the downhill of your commissioners too. You followed the well-known path of the New Democracy, which is the dear path of the republic and which finds worthy followers the so-called Left of SYRIZA. We're with the farmers. We are on the side of the farmers, the workers, the unemployed, the professionals who are struggling with the Greek flags on the streets and the squares for a better future. Golden Dawn is on their side. Golden Dawn invites other social classes to uproot, because this is the only way to find salvation in this place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u25	On behalf of the Democratic Alliance, Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, because last time you said that you were self-criticising because, by giving me the floor, I had created a tension, I was afraid you also regretted what you are taking it back. I don't think the President of Parliament will be mad at what you're doing. I think you're doing right, because before the Rules of Procedure were amended...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u27	I said whatever's angry, he'll be right. I didn't say he'd be mad. If he puts the voices on me, he'll be right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u28	He won't put your voices on you, because he won't be mad. This is not a bureau of bureaucrats that we are doing what he has done, of course - unwittingly - the Deputy Minister of State, say a poem. It is a Chamber which is pulsating according to the pulse of society, which lives with political tensions, which lives on the ground. In other words, on today's day, we cannot have ratified a contract without words. Because if political parties that agree with the conventions are finally condemned to dissent, then we are leading to the paralysing tactics in the committees to express reservations so that we can take the floor here, say ours and then vote for the ratification of the conventions. You're doing great. We once again commend this method of Parliament's work and hope that the whole Bureau - the President first of all - will agree to this procedure and continue to do so. We're giving this House life. Today I think that we are experiencing - we are not just seeing or living - the social collapse of SYRIZA, which also leads to its political collapse, because, Mr President, I am closing down - nothing is afflicted with more intensity and hardship than a hope that has been disproved, because it has become quite clear that the man who produced it was lying to his conscience.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u29	Thank you. From the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Tassos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u30	Today, indeed, there was a grand, huge gathering outside the House, here in the Constitution, by the PAME with tens of thousands of farmers, workers, self-employed people who protested against the anti-Fraud and anti-Government policy of the government, but also the other parties that voted for the third memorandum. It has proved once again that philosophical solutions within the framework of the European Union and the capitalist system cannot exist, and today they have spoken out thousands of protesters. The situation that has now arisen, especially in farmers, is such that small and medium-sized farms are to be dismantled. The policy which has been implemented consistently and targeted for years now by the European Union with the common agricultural policy is designed to eliminate small and medium-sized farms so that there are some large rural enterprises. Of course, this is also being promoted by the separation of farmers between those who are mainly professional farmers and others. Today 20% of farmers get 80% of subsidies. And the remaining 20% of subsidies share 80% of farmers. What those who want to make this division are also asking for is to get this 20%, but forgetting that in relation to European business groups it is at a disadvantage. But they will also find themselves in a very difficult situation and then they will have no allies to support them. We therefore support the fight against farmers and the workers and the self-employed and the scientists, so that they can really enjoy the wealth they produce. Because other way of producing wealth, apart from working, it doesn't exist. Therefore, the people must claim and place at the table of the debate to take power in their hands, because he produces wealth, and he must rejoice rather than the sixty-two who today have as much wealth as half the population of the earth, the three and a half billion. They ask the people to show realism and to propose realistic solutions within this system. So, realistic solutions within the framework of this system that is of interest to the people do not exist. In any case, in order to gain something under this system, it will be won by fighting against this policy rather than by dialogue and social consensus.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u31	Mr Theocharis from the river has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. It is assumed that every situation can be seen from its positive side or from its negative side, see the glass half empty or half filled. It is also important to note that there are too many things in this country. It abolishes the lifestyle of many people, such as farmers who within a year see everything being overthrown: subsidies and how they are taxed, VAT on their products, income tax, the retroactive advance made by the SYRIZA Government and so many others. Taxation and insurance for so many free professionals is being reversed, making it inconsistent in our country to attempt to advance any younger or older in that country. At the same time, however, delusional ones are also falling apart. They break up the lies, populism breaks down. And those who said that the only thing SYRIZA can do is water chloroform and anesthetic to the Greek people, it seems that this is still falling apart. The Greek people understand the one and most important lie SYRIZA has ever told him. And that is that there are some others who will pay the bill at the end. The account will always be paid by the Greek citizens, by Greek voters, who must be double and three-fold careful, because all the suffering that their political system burdens them, all the sufferings that populism loads on the Greek people will pay them. Whether one class or another, one generation or another, or all of us living in that country, or our unborn grandsons and grandsons, who will come to pay the bill, in the end, is justice in sharing. And it is now obvious to everyone that SYRIZA has been divorced from the concept of justice! Because every single piece of legislation, with a peak of what we hear about taxation of 50% plus 8% from the first euro - that is, over 10% in reality, over 60% of the increase in insurance contributions to 38% - will actually bring the total damage to the Greek economy. We hope that society will learn and dismantle this catastrophe and this catastrophic government an hour ago. It's time!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u33	Will you speak, Mr. Katsiki, on behalf of the ANELs? I don't have any paper, but, as I did with Mr. Tassos, talk for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, no, I will not speak. At any moment our Parliamentary representative has arrived. And, if you are kind enough, the Parliamentary Representative from the Centro Association must be preceded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u35	Immediately after. Mr. Carras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Since the beginning of the new year we have been watching a turbulence. We hear restless news. We see the farmers who have been on the road for several days, perhaps even fifteen, already. They're out of the question, they're indignant. In the next few days, we have seen that there is also a tax attack, which is not just about the free traders, for whom there is a lot of talk. It concerns - after the last few days, with what has been said about new tax arrangements - the whole of the workers and the people. The six years have not taught, Mr President, neither the SYRIZA Government nor the former Government of New Democracy - PASOK. They didn't teach anything. And we are today, six years later, having a people around the corner. Why am I saying that? For today's gatherings - which were important, in our view - have shown a pulse. I am not going to mention and condemn the diversions that are taking place, because here we are talking about democratic rights of protest. We are not talking about 'bugs', as is commonly called. It participates part of the Greek people, which feels the pressure, which has come and will continue to come. So we think it is time, Mr President, to address the more general issues and not just to remain in a sterile confrontation - the SYRIZA - ANEL Government tells us that it is awaiting development or I do not know what - a phrase which is reproduced daily. And get an example for the insurance. It sounds like they're all going to get their pensions, because the growth clause is going to be given. But I have read - and I am allowed to do so - what the growth clause says. They will, he says, come proposals from a committee, which has not yet been established. I'm coming back to the main issue. With this in mind, Mr President, we would like to ask this House to have a real dialogue on insurance because not only acquired rights are being removed, but the fact that the Greek workers are being removed is also being taken away. We're sinking into an abyss, in a Danaides monkey, for which we don't know where we're going to get the money they ask of the people. We therefore call for a real dialogue, both within Parliament and within society, so that the problems faced by the Greek people can be seen. And all of us, if we manage to do so, to help to the minimum and to contribute, we will be absolutely satisfied. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u37	Before I give the floor to Mrs Vaki, on behalf of SYRIZA, I will make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the top Western theories we are attending our meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured to the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", eighteen students and students and two trainers from the Palaios High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Vakis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u38	Can I make a comment, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u39	I think Mrs Vakis should finish, although I think she was at parties level, but anyway. I will give you the floor for three minutes and we will close on this matter. Here, Mrs. Vakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, we have just witnessed analytic exercises on paper, indulgence, admonition, immoral preaching, on behalf of Officer Opposition. And all this shows up one thing only. Look, the transition to Antipoliticism is a cruel and painful process, but it does not amount to swimming in Siloam. You blamed us before that we were ironing the Greek people. Were you not ironic about the Greek people in the past years, did you not do it, did you, when you fenced Parliament - are memories fresh - with bars, in Syntagma Square, when people were protesting in a gas chamber, hitting the world? Yes, normality is for people to go down the street, but the government not to be its enemy, to be an ally, in an attempt to disguise irrational neoliberal and center demands. It is not normal for a government to sneeze the voice of the world and its struggles. This is not a success of a left-wing government. The success of a government is to be side by side and with the people. The greatest theatre of the absurd is some protesters - the "yes" workers at all, "yes" in the Yunker Plan, the "base sacrifice" agreement, now leading out, completely hypocritical. If you're trying to create an artificial climate of upset, the government is solid, it's compact and it's here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u41	Thank you twice for the short time. So, Mr. Amanatidis, you are right to take three minutes that have left Mrs. Vaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u42	I, Mr President, would not take the floor, but because Mr. Dendias referred to me as the State Secretary, to make a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u43	He did not refer to you as State Secretary, but to the government's representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, I think that what we do not understand cannot be declared a'schizoid'. It makes very sense for a party such as the New Democracy not to understand the mobilisations of wider social strata. My opinion is that mobilisation is not an anomaly, and it is not today that it is a abnormal day. The mobilisations are weapons at the forefront of the tough negotiation conducted by the government, in the absence of the presence of the Anti-Population, even with its proposals, in a dialogue that has been requested. I believe that the honest and exhaustive dialogue with all the social groups, and even after today's statements by the President of Parliament, who took the resolution of the gathered ones, can help everyone and are in the interests of everyone. We're not ironing anyone. We are seeking the sincere and exhaustive dialogue and, please, what we do not understand is not schizoid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, the first part of today's sitting, which was the legislative work, was completed. I would ask the Secretary-General here to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I shall first read out all the topical questions to which the debate will not take place because of an impediment to the competent ministers. The second, with number 464/1-2-2016, is the first-round question of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the uncontrolled action of non-governmental organisations on the Aegean islands, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The fourth under number 468/1-2-2016 top-level question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARK KEGROGOU to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning delays in payments between producers of fresh food and sensitive products and of medium-sized enterprises or retail chains, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The fifth, under No. 453/26-1-2016, is a top-level question for the first cycle of the Athens MP, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the suspension of the auctions for the sale of the assets of the companies "FILKERAM JOHNSON INDUSTRY INDUSTRY OF CREAMS S.A." and "GENERAL CLOSTOFANTOURGIA S.A." for six months, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The sixth question, under number 455/26-1-2016, of the First Cycle of the Member of Parliament for the Independent Greeks, Mr.Kossos Kokalis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the need to exclude the eubolic Gulf from the implementation of the Ministry's decision, which allows fishing with the Vinzotrata tool, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The third, with number 466/1-2-2016, is a topical question for the Attica MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Cassiri to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, about the "millions shared by the SYRIZA Government - ANLE to the bankrupt parties", not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The fourth question under number 459/28-1-2016 of the Achaea MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the non-implementation of the commitments to the refugee question by the Government and the risk of exiting the country from Schengen, is not discussed due to an obstruction of the Minister. The fifth under number 467/1-2-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction regarding the possibility of leaving our country from the Schengen area is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The sixth question, under number 385/12-1-2016, is the second question of the Greek Communist Party MP, Athanasios Bardalis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the problems of workers in the "EUROMEDICA" Group. The seventh under number 426/19-1-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the immediate reopening of the recycling plant in Heraklion Crete and the re-uptake of workers by WASTE SOLUTIONS, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. No comments. The first question, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, if it is easy, I would like you to give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u48	For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u49	As to the procedure and the postponement of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u50	There's no question of that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u51	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u52	There's nothing to say about it. I said myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u53	It's my thing. If you give me the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u54	All right, you'll wait at the end then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u55	Why wait at the end?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u56	You will be waiting at the end because, Mr Synergy, for example, I had to read to you last. For short reasons, I read all the postponements because your timely question was the last. So, you'd have taken the floor again. Please, don't go too far!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u57	It has nothing to do with what I want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u58	You will say it at the end, in the order your question was postponed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u59	As long as this dialogue takes place, I would have mentioned the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u60	The first question will be discussed. Mr Colleague, please very much! You're not going to take the floor now. When the time comes, at the end of which your question was, although it is not foreseen, I will give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u61	At the end of the day, when?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u62	At the end of the parliamentary scrutiny, because your question that was postponed was to the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u63	The people you read, they won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Comrade, please, you don't have the floor. The first with number 462/1-2-2016 topical question...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u65	It is unacceptable not to give me the floor, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u66	I told you when I'll give it to you. And unacceptable, Mr Colleague, is that you speak to a colleague who has twenty-five years in this House. Be a little careful!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u67	Can I have a capsule, Mr. President? I didn't tell you anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u68	The first question under number 462/1-2-2016 will be discussed in the first cycle of MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Salotopoulos to the Minister for Education, Research and Technology, regarding the stay of the Forestry and Natural Environment Management Department...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u69	I will insist, Mr President. This is the third time the question has been postponed!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, nothing is written and you have no say now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u71	...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u72	You'll say what you have to say at the end when your turn comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u73	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u74	... and its inclusion in the computerized introductory examinations at the IEO for the academic year 2016-2017. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in Karditsa, the Department of Forestry and Natural Environment Management since 1983, as well as other departments of the Thessaly Foundation: the Department of Wood and Furniture Design and Technology, the Department of Nutrition and Dietology, the Department of Food Technology and the Department of the University of Thessaly Veterinary School. I ask you this question, as the scandalous and undocumented transfer to Karpenisi of the Forestry and Natural Environment Management Department with the "Athena" project creates a serious academic deficit in TEI Thessaly and in the Karditsa society with which the department has been closely connected over the last thirty years. I draw your attention to the history, the completeness of the infrastructure, the academic function, the social provision of the department, and its important contribution to the development of the region's natural environment. This is a section that met - and still meets - all academic criteria established by the Quality Assurance Authority in higher education. It is based on the academic campus of the city of Karditsa, along with the other sections with which there is great synergy. It has a privately owned area of thirty acres with excellent building facilities, teaching rooms, amphitheatre, libraries, well equipped workshops, complete student care facilities, entertainment areas, greenhouses and meteorological station. In fact, his equipment has been used in education and in at least twenty education programmes worth two million euros over the last five years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. The department has made a significant contribution to the extroversion of the city of Carditsa through its research activities, as well as to the internationalisation with the dozens of students “ERASMUS” who hosted. With the specified transfer of the department after 31 October 2018 in Karpenisi, the only higher education section with a long experience and specialisation in the management of the natural environment will be extinct from Thessaly. Also, the investments of the Greek state in the infrastructure and equipment of the department will be completely depreciated. Finally, academic synergies related to natural environment management, synergies between regions of the region will be weakened. The uninterrupted academic continuity of the department will cease as the infrastructure and the academic environment of the host department are clearly lower than those already in existence at the Thessaly TEI. In view of the above, we have asked you a clear and specific question concerning, firstly, the reason why the department was finally merged in the Karpenisi’s bond after thirty years of positive course and offer and secondly, the restoration immediately by the Ministry of Education of a great injustice, an academic crime with the maintenance of the department in Carditsa and its inclusion in the computerised bulletin of the introductory examinations at the IEO for the next academic year 2016-2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, too. The Deputy Minister will answer Mrs Athanasia Anagnostopoulou. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, you are giving me the opportunity to talk about a very important issue, but it would take hours to develop it. We have heard a lot recently about a party state of SYRIZA, about a client state and stuff like that. If we take the academic map, if we take the map of higher institutions and see what has happened since the Transmigration so far, there we will understand what a party state means, what a client state means and what all that means. We will also understand the absurdity, money-sharing and what all this means if we sit down and see how they went to be rectified in the same way, but also in the same customer's way, the problems that created an unreasonable and totally unreasonable fragmented distribution of university departments and schools and TEI throughout the territory. Your part is an example of this and, indeed, a flagrant example and I will say below. But you will allow me to say a few words about informing more about what we hear in this Chamber, but also outside it, to see what has happened since 1990 and then in that country in relation to the highest institutions. We will find that from 1990 to 2003 there are suddenly sections in the middle of nowhere everywhere. From 2003 to the crisis, further sections escaped. Most of them fulfilled academic criteria, but also other criteria, which must have a university department or part of the TEI. The reasons created by these sections are unexplained. I mean, we know, because now we're learning, as we see the map. And then we knew, but it would be a huge conversation. What happened after the crisis? In the same way parts were merged at night, parts were removed without any criteria being reached. The Forestry Department of Carditsa is, I told you, a contagious case. We've seen it very thoroughly. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. We saw, first of all, that this department has all the buildings, not only to cover its academic function, but also to provide student care. We found that for thirty years, he had synergies with other departments of Thessaly and the University of Thessaly. We also saw his retardation with society, his extrovert. We also saw, of course, the assessment of the IPD in 2010, which evaluated this section very positively. This section is suddenly repealed and merged with the Carpenesi Department. This is where a major issue comes in. How is it merged with the Carpenesi Department? For what? We have no excuse. I have not found any reason to justify this merger by academic, building or by any other criteria. I don't want to say anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u78	Madam Minister, you have to close down. You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u79	Yeah, it's a big deal. As far as the Carpenesian section is concerned, I'm not against the Carpenesian section. We barely have a forest wealth there that would rise to have another division. In my prototype, then, I wonder what it was that it did not have two parts, and here and here, because these parts are very little in the whole of Greece and they would have to be. In my dentistry, I will tell you about what you specifically asked me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u80	My colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We expect the solution to be given, which will lift the clearly unjust merger of the branch, as you have said, and will resolve this important issue, which is not closely related to the Karditsa region, but to the whole of Thessaly. It is unprecedented that a section which has been in operation for thirty two years, with facilities available for theoretical and laboratory care - and you have seen it - with research activity and international recognition, a section directly related to the development needs of Thessaly, which has been serving years, is condemned to be convicted by the merger of a part of another geographical part of the country, which - if only is able to operate there - is clearly lacking in infrastructure and leads the department to scientific isolation, as there is no other similar Department of Forestry in the TEI of Central Greece. In fact, the report on the external evaluation of the department outlines its achievements and prospects. So we wonder what prospects this transfer ensures. Common sense says that the weakest and low-growth structures should be merged with the most powerful, always using uniform objective criteria. This has been imprisoned, Minister. He's been abducted. Did this involve political purposes and served customer relations? So it is imperative that the Ministry of Education should review the case of the Forestry and Natural Environment Management Department in Karditsa immediately, because there is no longer time and we cannot wait for the national dialogue for something so unjust. I would point out that the continuing operation of the department will not be at any cost to the Thessaly TEI and the state budget. Madam Minister, the department stops its operation in 2018. I am sure you will consider the issue with sensitivity and will take immediate action to restore the flagrant injustice suffered by the Forestry and Natural Environment Management Department of the Thessaly TEI in Karditsa. I am also sure that you will take action to reincorporate the department into the computerised exams for the next academic year 2016-2017, in whatever way you think, in order to obtain new students and new dynamics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u82	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u83	Madam President, I will reply directly, although I have told you that this is a huge issue. The national dialogue, in which the geographical map of SNEs, higher institutions, has already begun, is of absolute priority. In even greater priority are sections, which appear to have had all the guarantees and traditions to function and which were either merged or intended to close in 2018. Karditsa's one of those things. I say it again. I cannot at this time commit to telling you that it will enter the computer in 2016-2017, not because I want to escape, but because the computers and which parts go in or do not go in, is set as of May last year. In other words, it is not possible for a Minister to say at the moment: 'I put this section in this way'. I hope, however, that in a reasonable period, that in one or two months' time, we will have a first report that will allow us to look at these cases in particular, such as the Cardiff section, and allow us before the department is delivered and before it disappears, to be able to put it back on its feet. That's what I can tell you for a moment. But you must know that we are showing all our attention. And it's not just the Karditsa department. There are some other things to which they have invested, apart from human resources and material infrastructure, money in workshops, organs, etc., that stay in this way and will rot. So what I have to tell you is that such departments are in direct priority. We will see the legislative arrangements that we can do so that we can ensure that these parts are not dissolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed as follows: Mr Nicholas Kouzilos' question will be discussed, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Petropoulos, and immediately thereafter we will be discussing - even though it is to the end - Mr Kegeroglou's question, to which the Secretary-General himself will answer again, in order to unravel him. The question will then be discussed by Mrs Maria Triantafyllos, to which will be answered by Minister Xanthos, and then by Mr Synthraki's last question, which will be answered by the Minister himself, Mr Xanthos. The third question, with number 461/29-1-2016, will be discussed in the context of the first cycle of the Piraeus People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Kouziou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the abolition of the National Family Benefit Account (ELOEN). Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, according to information and information we have, the Ministry of Labour intends to abolish, with the new draft law on the creation of a single social security system, the Special Family Benefits Account. However, as a legal person governed by public law, he does not have an independent account with the NAT. It's not an insurance body, it's not a relief fund. ELEN has its own budget and distributes its resources from the contributions of seafarers -1% - and shipowners -2% - on basic salaries and allowances, as provided for by the collective labour agreement to Greek seafarers. You ask yourself, Minister: will LOEN be excluded from the draft law on the creation of a single social security system, and if not, why not?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u86	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. The government does not intend to abolish any right. What he does is manage in the best way all rights relating to social security. The debate with the institutions concerned always bears fruit. We seek dialogue and consultation with all stakeholders. I believe and hope that soon we will also have an opportunity for farmers to discuss in detail the part they are concerned with, the part they are concerned with in the social security system that we are creating, because solutions will also be found there. Tomorrow I think we will conclude the debate with the scientific bodies. I have received and discussed with Mrs Vlassopoulou, the Director of the Special Family Benefit Account. I explained to the Director of ELOEN and Mr Riesako, who also has responsibility, that we have no intentions, we do not intend to incorporate Loren into the social security system. We want to keep him, with the adequacy of the funds he has to make, on a self-evident course, within the framework and in the shell of the service provided by the NAT, which receives this contribution and pays it to pay this allowance. This is therefore not about organic integration within the social security institution that we have designed. A wording that really exists in the original draft, causing this misunderstanding, will be eliminated. Clearly there will be no such accession of LOLEN. That's our answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u88	Although the answer was clear, you have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u89	But there is now the question of NAT's self-interest. If NAT is not incomplete, who will give LOVEN the contributions - twelve to fifteen million - when the fleets are closed? How will these be distributed? I think this should be cleared up by now. Also, what about the Navy House, which belongs to LOEN? These are the main questions that arise, that is, what will happen with NAT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u90	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u91	We have said clearly from the outset that the NAT will maintain its self-sufficiency for non-pension benefits. There is therefore no problem in this respect and no involvement in the operation of either of the institutions is caused. There will be within NAT, which will exist and will be maintained automatically for these functions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u92	Thank you. We are now moving on to the first with number 1448/26-11-2015 question by Mr. Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, as to whether it is the intention of the Ministry that employers should be given the opportunity to reset debts to the IKA. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to make a reference to insurance in general, about the social turmoil caused by the government, bringing about an alleged bill or even policies for a bill that she has not made clear what she wants. We placed ourselves in the debate that took place in this Chamber and asked for it to be taken back, 'frozen' it, or whatever it wants to call the launching initiative that it needs to take, and at the same time to have a substantial and brief debate on this matter. I do not think that the government should trigger the social explosion that has now appeared to exist, the stimulus that has been created. Minister, in this Chamber we managed to reach agreement on two, three things the previous period. One of these was the reduction of insurance contributions for young scientists up to three scales, for those insured in the EBRD, as is the case for the fund of professionals, craftsmen and traders, the OAU, and of course we agreed to adjust the percentage of doses on certain conditions. Unfortunately, following the September elections, the government came up with newer arrangements to withdraw this very right regulation that we made for young scientists and which seemed to be delivering according to EBRD figures and of course to make it difficult to regulate the hundreds of doses. In particular, you increased the interest rate at which the extra amounts for the hundred instalments are calculated. But that's not enough. You have come and set tight margins for the parallel debts that exist - beyond the 100-digit instalments - for those who have joined to pay them back, with the result that they have not been informed, but also because of the short period of time, that many have been paid off. This concerns the insured and the other insurance funds. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In particular, for IKA - if my data are correct - out of about a hundred and fifteen thousand insured persons who had been in the regulation of the hundred doses, the approximately thirty-four had endured in the time I had this number, precisely because of the difficulties that have existed. And it may be that today we are talking about increasing this figure and because they will soon have to repay the debts or current debts. Of course, it is right that there should be some conditions. No one's realizing it. At the first stage, however, the necessary information was not available to many who want to pay and keep the regulation, a huge gap was created at the moment, and the IKA is losing some EUR 1 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Kegeroglu, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u95	Yes, Mr. President. What I am asking you to do is to allow a red line - up to a date and after citizens have been informed - and if they have had to pay everything they had to pay for the previous deadlines, they can be re-incorporated in the regulation of the hundreds of instalments so that they can also be informed of their own information, but in particular the income for IKA and the other insurance funds. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u96	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Law No.4336 of 14 August abolished the provisions of Law No.4321 adopted by the SYRIZA Government two months ago. Therefore, you know that the provisions to which you refer have been abolished in your knowledge and with your vote. Obviously, arrangements should be made for the contribution debtors to the social security institutions. We do not abandon the thought or the effort to regulate our insured. We must, however, all here together, think, under the circumstances that have been created, what is the way in which it is appropriate to solve this problem. I would remind you that when the debate took place at L.4337 to make some corrections to the previous provisions, I personally accepted proposals from all the wings of the House - in particular many Members of Parliament - to link contributions to net profits, because it has been found that those who even applied to be subject to the rules of Law No.4321 were unable to pay the instalments provided for by that law. Indeed, as early as March 2015, there has been a small but stable increase in those who could not pay contributions, so that we have reached a large percentage of losses which may exceed what you have pointed out. This shows that we need to find another way of bringing people into insurance, with a solution that we propose and you have to agree that it is more appropriate than it is calculated in rigid categories of contributions that no one can pay. Therefore, it becomes more accessible to the insured person to link the contributions to their net income after the procedures for adjusting the rate of contribution to net profits of such a kind that will not create excessive charges for the contributions of the insured.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u98	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u99	Minister, your permanent argument that the loan contract in August was voted on by other forces and not only by SYRIZA, does not relieve you of your responsibility. For the responsibilities that you have led the country to take a step before leaving the Eurozone, you will have the opportunity to apologize within the committee of inquiry to be set up. And it will be established. You have no doubt about that. The fact that together with the'survivors' - as you made it - at that time you pushed and put in other provisions on insurance, anti-social and anti-developmental - does not relieve you. Nor was the point of the vote of the other forces at that time on insurance contributions. You agreed without negotiation with the partners, because you did not have the opportunity to negotiate, to abolish all this, and indeed as a prerequisite. So don't invoke it. We must, however, be prepared to find a solution. The solution you are saying in relation to the insurance pension that you are proposing has nothing to do with the dues. We need to talk today about late payment, see if there is a solution. I think that this problem needs to be extended, a margin, a window - as you want to call it - to those who want to pay what they have not done so far, as part of the hundred-dollar arrangement - whether they are current debts or have been unable on that day to pay, because they have entered the hospital or for any reason - and have been automatically reinstated in the arrangement. This is an act of justice you must do. You cannot let the problem grow, because after two, three, four months, it will have grown so much, and if there are ones ready today, they will not have the economic potential to do so. The second is that in the bill that you say you have - and I say 'let', because the newspapers that are leaking from both Maximos and the Ministry tell you that there is nothing and everything is in the air, ultimately - we need to see more radical solutions. The most radical solution to the debts is - regardless of the level of insurance contributions and the system to be decided - finally to be capitalised and to have a special arrangement which is independent of the current and current contribution, on the sole condition that the current contributions are paid. Because you know very well - from the study that has been carried out - that the current contributions to certain funds, such as the OSH, to a large extent, ensure their sustainability, irrespective of the percentage of overdue receipts. So what I ask you today is that we take a step. Let us see in a month - until the end of February - the possibility of paying all those who did not pay the previous period and in relation to the hundred instalments, but also to other debts which have become due or the unpaid and if the debtor pays them, can be re-adjusted. That's why I don't think there's any particular problem. It is an act of justice and I do not think we should refer it to the bells, because it will maximise the problem. Apart from the possibility it will give, citizens will also be informed of this problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u100	It's understood, dear Vasili. Close your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u101	They are not aware, Mr President, that if they lose a dose or if they have arrears, they are due. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u102	Before giving the floor to the Minister, I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 5 February 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Athanasios Papadopoulos, Member of the Radical Left, to the Minister of Health, on the implementation and modernisation of the necessary institutional framework, as well as on the quicker response of public services, in order to provide incentives to attract clinical studies to our country. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 469/1-2-2016 by the Member of the State of New Democracy, Mr Dimitrios Stamatis, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the abolition of barren air services. 3. The question by number 473/1-2-2016 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Kasidiari, to the Minister of National Defence, concerning the concession of the camps of Sindou and Schistou to establish centres for the relocation of refugees and illegal immigrants. 4. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the implementation of the provision of n. 4162/2013 on the establishment of the “National Social Solidarity Account (ELCG)” Solidarity Fund. 5. The Question No 486/2/2016 by Z' Vice President of Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the problems of special education structures in Larissa Prefecture. 6. Athanasios Papachristopoulos (Minister of State) asked Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos about the validity of the polls. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under number 491/2-2-2016, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Georgios Katsiantonis, on measures to deal with the phenomenon of Islamic terrorism and the risk of our country being excluded from the visa-free programme for anyone who wishes to travel to the United States of America. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Health on the operation of the computing tomographer (PET - CT) at the University General Hospital of Ioannina. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 470/1-2-2016, a topical question by Deputy Serres of New Democracy Mrs Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on delays in the liquidation of payments of the single payment to Greek producers. 3. The Question No 474/1-2-2016 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Papapas to the Minister of National Defence, on the obligation of the Ministry of National Defence to build a monument in Imia. 4. The question by No 476/1-2-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation PASOK - DIMAR Mr Michael Jeleighis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy concerning the connection of the Serres Prefecture to natural gas. 5. The question by No. 487/2-2-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Sakis Bardalis, Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about dealing with the problems of workers in the General Clinical "Lysimachos Sarafian" in Thessaloniki. 6. Under number 493/2-2-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the fines of the National Broadcasting Council (ESP) in the media (SMEs). 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question under number 472/1-2-2016 by Congressman I Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the establishment of the detention centre for refugees in Sindo. 8. The Question No 478/1-2-2016 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy concerning the implementation of the plans of the Public Gas Company for the supply of natural gas to Patras. 9. The Question No 436/22-1-2016 by Congressman Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism about the unexplained and unjustified increases in fuel prices addressed to Greek consumers. 10. The question asked by MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Has Kefalidou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism about the high charges for banks in all transactions using debt - credit cards. 11. Under No 401/18-1-2016, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism about the high prices of fuels in our country when the price of oil internationally is low. 12. The Question No 432/22-1-2016 by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the deadline for updating the files of outstanding applications of borrowers in accordance with No. 3869/2010 and the time limit for the provision of the detailed payment statements. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The Question No 417/18-1-2016 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the draft law on insurance, which is formulated, actually leads to the exit of the combatant from the profession. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u103	Law No 4152/2013 and all the relevant laws on the arrangements have always provided - and it is known to everyone - that together with the dose of the arrangement they have to pay the corresponding contribution. I must remind you that with Mr von Wogau. There were 12 instalments per cap and an 8% interest rate. We went to Law No.4321, up to a hundred doses. That provision was, of course, repealed. But the interest rate didn't take it to 8%, which was at no.4152, but to 5%. Therefore, do not punish us for having achieved something much better, under lesser conditions, in the social security system, because I must recall again that we received a system of social security with huge deficits in relation to the surpluses it had in 2011. You know that in 2011, we had a cash surplus of around EUR 1.300,000, and in 2015 when we received, we had a cash deficit of around EUR 2,500,000. I may be wrong about some small sums, but about 4,000,000 euros minus deficits, after a huge reduction in pensions. However, the system was in this situation. Perhaps you did not understand, Mr Kegeroglu, but I said that the sums due from unpaid contributions were only about EUR 17,000,000 and EUR 12,000,000 for the OAU. These amounts were only of these two funds. Therefore, whatever we did in terms of regulations, it was not enough without changing social security structures so that it can really be a system with which contributions are collected. With regard to the safe way in which contributions are collected - and I repeat and stress, following measures to adapt to the high contributions that are resulting, because they are high incomes, and we have said so too, we are investigating with the scientific bodies with whom we meet tomorrow and with the farmers who are really accessible to the purpose of social security - we have to agree here that this whole system that we are creating from the basis of its structures with a prospect of sustainability will necessarily include a debate on contributions and benefits. So to say that the plan we are proposing is insurance, as if we now have a pro-assurance system - which has collapsed completely, there is neither a system nor a social security system - is correct. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I think that our repeated invitation to all the sides of this House will enable us to find real solutions, because the problem is national and there is no delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u104	Anything on the proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u105	No or yes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u106	Minister, you are one of the members of the government that comes to Parliament. And I have to write that down. You are honouring the questions of colleagues. If you want, I will give you a minute to answer Mr Kegeroglu's very specific question, namely those who can pay the sums owed can be re-adjusted in the setting of the 100 instalments. I think it is something that will probably pass by the House unanimously. On this particular for a minute would you like to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u107	Of course, Mr President, I will say that as well. Time was over, and I didn't want to abuse. I say that we have raised this and we are discussing it. I have to inform you that there are already cases of the kind you talk about in the OAU that you're talking about. All these cases are covered. To the OAU, I repeat, where such cases exist, such as the example you mentioned that someone for reasons of force majeure was prevented from paying the levy, the issue is dealt with and resolved. Our problem is in IKA, where the integrated information systems exist. There, however complete the information systems are, they're locked computers and they can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u108	Who's got the key, Tomsen? Let's unlock them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u109	Yeah, let's unlock them. But unlocking here is another story.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u110	It's unlocking!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u111	The locking is from the system you've done. You've done it. It's not from Thompsen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u112	It's unlocking!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u113	It's not unlocking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u114	Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u115	We are therefore also looking at those solutions that will enable this world to return to the system. And you will see that in the system that we are creating, with its new structure, no insured persons will be expelled, as in the past, because it happened not to pay old contributions. And that problem will be solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u116	That's good, but now you tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u117	Therefore, the thought you have put forward will be satisfied.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u118	It is therefore recorded as a positive one. Now we're going to the two questions that Minister Andreas Xanthos will answer. The first question under number 463/1-2-2016 will be discussed with the Minister of Health on the need to speed up the reconstruction and improve the functioning of the health structures in the Prefecture of Itoloakarna. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is the second time in a few days that a question of the same or similar nature has been asked about health structures in Itoo-Carnania. Personally this question from 2012 until 2014, I was tabling four - five times before it was answered and I was very happy when it was answered in May 2015. I am saying this because there is a negative correlation between the questions and the answers. The President said 'employable' and was right. I think we should stand on this. In other words, we must stand by the fact that we have always supported the deterioration of the parliamentary work. And that's not what we should do back. I'm not talking about once - people! - a Member or a Minister may not come, but the continued absence is a problem. Well, let's get to the point. A lot of the problems in the largest county in the country, Ioannina. Unfortunately, the level of substraint is still high. In any case, recruitment is a thorny issue and gaps are unthinkable. Let's be specific. We have always said, and unfortunately still has not been solved, as a major issue in the issue of cardioological endurance. Even though things have been working a bit, i.e. the Cardinal of the Hospital of Agrinio and Mesology operates regularly daily, they only invent to every hospital for twelve days. This means that for about a week or so the county is uncovered by cardiologists. I have asked and received specific information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as to what has happened. Although the first question is, I look forward to a better cover than you, Minister. There are, therefore, concrete steps taken: An assistant cardiologist and radiologist at Agrinio Hospital was placed at the hospital, the on-calls were reinforced in the two hospitals, but with doctors of health centers, which means that there is a displacement to doctors, there is an immediate placement in the next sixteen days of agricultural doctors at the health centers of Aetolokarnania Prefecture, there is an additional grant for the two hospitals, increased to the amounts of on-call medical staff and overtime of other personnel for 2016, and staff are expected to be placed at the Agrinio S.A., etc. We hope that there will be a better functioning and operational stabilisation in the two nursing units and, in general, in the Prefecture of Aetolakarina. There are two specific questions raised in the topical and urgent question. The first is to do with whether there is anything else to do with these actions that we should listen to. And the latter is about what actions you are planning towards the reconstruction and upgrading of hospitals and other health structures in the Prefecture of Aetolakarnania. I would also like to raise another issue, and I want your opinion on it. It's the issue of disconnection. I'm not going to an easy rhetoric. I will say, however, that there must be an account of the interconnection of the two hospitals. What benefit is there in the budget? Is the world covered by the interface? And to say here and close, because I've already had a long time, that there's a negative account on the interface. Therefore, if there is such a proposal, with which insurance barriers it is proposed to interconnect and what you are thinking of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Blonde has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much. I think we had the opportunity in May to discuss exactly the same issue. In reply to the HR's reply, which largely covers me, it seems that a few steps have been taken since then. Obviously it is not enough and obviously the situation in your prefecture's health services is still problematic, which is why the local society, as far as I have been informed recently, has gone on to mobilize, claiming an upgraded public care. Unfortunately, the picture does not differ from the usual picture in all hospitals, especially the province. What we are trying to do is in a difficult budgetary situation, indeed in practice, and not in words a priority in public care. We have achieved this by providing for increased appropriations and as a limit on expenditure and as real credits to be transferred to hospitals this year and by planning the recruitment of permanent staff, which we have advanced. Already the ASAP has sent us the first interim results. They are called upon by the hospitals to bear the necessary documentation and I believe that this procedure is being completed in February. There will be a second set of recruitments of two and a half thousand workers. In this distribution there are six hundred doctors and of them, from what I have been informed by the Ministry, there is provision for eight doctors for the Agrinio Hospital and three for the Messology Hospital. In fact, there is also a targeted intervention involving three psychiatrists, which will allow for the first time the Hospital's Psychiatric Clinic and contribute to a sectionation of mental health services in the area, which I think is very important for the completion of psychiatric reform. Strengthening the hospital intensive care unit by means of the notice that the process has been completed by us, will probably come out of the air tomorrow, with four hundred nurses and a hundred doctors, is also important, especially at this time of increased demand for IF beds and due to influenza. Fortunately, the procedures through the CEDEFOP are much shorter and we believe that within one month the procedure will be completed. Therefore, the attempt to give a signal to address the constant decline in public care and the deterioration of the ESS I think has been achieved. And we really believe that in the next year and this year, in particular, in the coming months, we will be able to have a more noticeable improvement in the daily lives of the workers and, above all, of the citizens, who are today suffering and who are being financially burdened to have a decent care at the time of need. On the subject of the Agency, there were indeed - you know that very well - in 2012 multiple interventions to merging hospitals. This thing was done without a plan, without a tool of seriousness, which is the health map, which would reflect the real needs, the epidemiological profile of each region and on the basis of which a serious design could be made. These mergers have caused side effects in many cases, such as when hospitals of different islands were interconnected. We have asked the health regions administrations and the next KESYPE - that is to say, the district council, which will be held next Friday - there will be a specific issue on the agenda, which is: 'Assessment of hospital connections and proposals for changes to this regime'. We will wait for the proposals of the 6th Health Region and we will really try to make corrective moves that improve and upgrade the services as a whole throughout the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u122	Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, Minister, you referred to the increased budget. It's true what you said. There has also been an increased budget for the Prefecture of Aetolakarania. I would like to make a comment on this, because we are invoking it - and we are doing it well, not enough - and we are doing it well enough, because we are well aware of how large the gaps are and how difficult it is to heal the wounds of all previous years. What do I want to say in relation to the budget? It must always be clean where the money goes. I am telling you this because in earlier budgets, in previous years there were larger budgets. I have noticed, therefore, that, as long as I am a Member of Parliament - for three years and as much as three years - in the Aetolokarnania Prefecture there were budgets, for example, which were given to machinery, which - and it made me a terrible impression when I saw them - are left in health centres, say, and the Aetolokarnania Prefecture - I imagine also throughout the territory - they have never been used. So it's right to have an increased budget. It shows the political direction of the Ministry. But I think we should always have in mind that money should go to specific targets. I say this because it takes control everywhere, up and down, and people need to see that there is now a divorce with plausibility and corruption. You referred to the mobilizations. Indeed, there have been mobilisations and I think that as SYRIZA we do not support the mobilisation of a card, the protests of a card and we know very well the difference between who is a fighter, who is a protester and who is a provocator. You also referred to timeless illnesses and health distortions, and this is not an academic reference. We pointed out as SYRIZA - and rightly so - that depreciation of public health was a conscious political choice of all the previous neoliberal and memorandum governments to pass on the filters of health services to the private sector. In my view - and I have said this before - it does not just endanger the country's health and public health in general, but literally puts social cohesion at risk and democracy itself. And because there is an agreement signed by SYRIZA - and not only - in August 2015 and because SYRIZA does not want to enter the cursor of the Memorandum Governments, we must also see in the health sector his plan and specialties. In my view, there must be two objectives. The further collapse must be halted, it is the Ministry's proclaimed targeting. As a second objective, the restructuring and recovery plan and substantial support and defence of public health must be implemented. There was indeed increased funding not only for the prefecture, but in general the progress of the continuous cuts in the operating costs of hospitals has been reversed. Recruitment, even to a small extent, shows political priority. We understand, however - and if I remember well from your position in the timely question that Potami asked - whether there are gaps - twenty-two thousand, twenty-three thousand gaps - this improvement picture becomes difficult to understand. To sum up, I would like to say that there is a statement of the political will to create and consolidate a public health system - primary, secondary, etc. - with free access, with the satisfaction of social and people's needs, but you will allow me to say that it is not enough. In my opinion, they need faster rates and moves...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u124	The question, please. We're not having an academic conversation. The question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u125	The two questions have come from my prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u126	Then, my dear Maria, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u127	I just want to say that I would like to see in a more concrete way, in the next few months, these rapid paces, which I think are a requirement of social reality, how to implement them in practical steps. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u128	Okay. Interesting, but it was a placement. It wasn't a question. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u129	Alas, if there's no place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u130	Always in questions, obviously, there is a place and a political position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u131	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u132	Look, it is a very great challenge for us, for the state as a whole, in the next time, to design and implement a serious investment in the human potential of the health system. That's the big deficit today. Investment in infrastructure has been made several times and with the help of European funds over the last fifteen to twenty years. In fact, part of these investments for equipment remain unused, precisely because they were made without serious planning and without a provision of human resources. Today there is no luxury of having either infrastructure untapped or human resources, which is not rationally distributed and its contribution to improving health services is not exploited. I think that given the political will, given the budgetary support of this project and given the fact that procedures have been advanced with human resources in the health system - inadequate, of course, recruitments, which have been launched, but that is what today can happen in this difficult financial situation - I think the battle today is first, with time. You know very well that the recruitment procedures especially of doctors are too long. I, too, intend to put this into discussion with the Federation of Hospital Doctors and with all stakeholders, so that we can go to another model of choice, particularly medical staff. We cannot accept this timeshare, which often exceeds two years. So it is a battle with time, of course, with the harsh reality of public hospitals, it is a battle with the strengths of the human resources of the system and it is a battle, if you like, with patience and many times with the dignity of citizens. This battle is very critical, and I believe that with an effort to encourage and rely on the most honest and reliable potential the health system currently has, and with the cooperation of both the social actors and all the parties involved, as well as the political forces - because I think there is a possibility of political convergence - we can really achieve it. There's a very serious opponent. It's the immigration of medical personnel abroad. This creates non-covering conditions even in places that are being procured. You know very well that two subsidiary doctors went to Agrinio, but no appointments were made for two others who did not accept their appointment. There's a very big problem today. We have frozen old recruitments in 2010 and 2011 and the people on whom the appointment of the Minister is signed are invited to take office and do not go because they have obviously in the middle of the day made other choices and most of them are already abroad. It takes a serious effort from the state to reverse this climate and to convince young doctors in particular that there is a decent scientific and professional perspective in this country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask you, at one time, to inform Parliament about the '04-06' period if a single unit and infrastructure were inaugurated which did not work immediately, even one. I would like you to look into it and inform Parliament. We will now discuss the second question by No 1756/8-12-2015 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the operation of the HSE. Mr. Colleague, I'm giving you three minutes to make your protest. That's what I meant, because I had seen that you had a question, so you'd take the floor, or I'd give it to you then, if you didn't have a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u134	I mean, you're integrating it. Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u135	You didn't get it. That's what I meant. Otherwise, I was passionate too today. Didn't you see it? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u136	In any case, starting from what I originally wanted, I am in the unpleasant position to denounce the unacceptable attitude of the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Kurubli, who has repeatedly postponed the debate on a topical question tabled by the JRC on the re-entry of all workers from the recycling plant in Heraklion, Crete, from the 'Waste Solutions' company. I'm not going to dwell on the suffering I'm suffering. I am from a constituency of Heraklion that you understand what trouble it takes and how many days under these conditions I have to be in Athens and not in my constituency when there are no jobs in this Parliament. First of all, however, this concerns those who have been fired for ninety-six days now are on the way, and the Minister reluctantly refuses to come to Parliament and to discuss what is going to happen to this factory, what is going to happen to the workers. People have lost their jobs. Where does this refer? CEDEFOP. He says it's CED's problem. We've filed a request for documents to be filed to get the contract, and we're not even getting it from the Ministry. She's talking about her somewhere else. At the same time, municipalities are affected by this story because they are losing money. Daily, the Municipality of Heraklion loses eight hundred and a thousand euros. Imagine we're talking about the municipalities of all Eastern Crete. We're not talking about a postponement here. Three times we had official postponements, because there have been cancellations too many times on the same subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u137	Manolis, get to the point now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u138	There's no excuse left at all. The government has done so, and not only does it concern this question, but it also concerns other Members of other parties. In any case, we call on the Minister, even at the last minute, to come here and talk about it. In relation to the question, CECH, Minister, is the largest network of drug decommissioning and social reintegration services and other forms of dependence. The capitalist crisis, of course, and its consequences increase this problem even further. You know, the crisis brings more use and raises the bar for prevention, treatment and reintegration programmes. At the same time, however, it 'leaves' them through the reduction of resources and personnel. The state grant to the JETI has been reduced by 25% over the past five years. You realise that the situation does not allow the CEFD to respond more effectively, although the workers are working titaniums and making great efforts to keep these services upright. There are requests from at least fifteen local societies, which have called for the creation of a structure of a CSTD. Within one year, in 2013-2014, the demands for treatment increased by 20%. There are requests for mobile units of the KETHEA, such as in Heraklion, Crete, for more direct and flexible intervention. For one decade, since 2006, there has been even one intake in the CEDEFOP. It is the same situation as the staff working in prisons who have to deal with complex and particular difficulties. Workers are faced with problems of occupational dismantling, of course because of intensification. In order to fill gaps, the CEFD is necessarily making some internal restructurings and staff movements, but that is not the solution. In 2013 he had four hundred eighty-seven employees, in 2014 he had four hundred sixty-seven, to cover 100 units of pan-Hellenic in twenty-three towns, eighteen prisons. How, then, is the current SYRIZA Government - ANEL dealing with this problem? You are committed to thirty-five recruitments in 2016. That's all the announcement. However, the fact is that you have led to the red number of units, especially in the region. You and I are aware that in Crete it does not cover the CHETHES of Crete only. Covers Dodecanese, covers Cyclades. The same is true of psychodiagnostic centres which are important supports for people with dual family diagnosis. These have been in operation since 2013. They stopped operating for a period of about six months -30-6-2015 to 15-01-2016 - due to the end of the eight-month contracts. These are fixed-term contracts via ESRB. We know that you have recently renewed these for another eight months.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Comrade, hold on to your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u140	I shall conclude, Mr President. However, this problem will recur. There are therefore a number of questions, Mr Minister, which are as follows: How will you, of course, deal with this tripartite, prevention, rehab and reintegration? Will you increase state funding to the CEFD in order to provide adequate staff, by making recruitments with permanent fixed work for all structures, of course? On the subject of reintegration into my dentistry, I have a few things to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u141	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u142	Dear colleague, thank you for the question. We had once again had a debate on the seven psychodiagnostic centres, which did work with ESDP money. It was an important innovation on the part of the ERCD, because it covered a real gap, which was in the care of people with what we call "double diagnosis", that is, with addictive behaviour and psychiatric morbidity. Such structures and services did not exist in the province, apart from Athens and Thessaloniki, in the two psychiatric hospitals. There was a large number of beneficiaries, more than a thousand four hundred, together with their families, and there was a problem with the closure of the programmes. We tried to make things easier in time. There has been an act of Ministerial Council which approved new eight-month contracts since the end of July. There have been delays because there have been legal problems. In any event, since 15 January, the operation of these centres with forty-two employees under an eight-month contract has been restored. Now, as far as CECH is concerned, you rightly pointed out that it is a very critical body, which contributes to the very critical social problem of dealing with dependency, as well as other bodies, of course, but I think the CECH has a special role. Our view is that the state must ensure that every dependant has the right to have, for itself, for its needs, care and that intervention must be definitive and must be about the whole range, from prevention to substitution, reduction of damage, treatment, rehabilitation and reintegration. The CECH has contributed very much and has highly measurable indicators, very good indicators, both in terms of rehabilitation and social reintegration. So it's an institution that the state should support. It is funded by the state with EUR 16 million a year. No increased grant was sought this year. It is a body that has a very good know-how and makes use of European taxes. We are trying to incorporate his proposals for funding from European programmes into the Ministry's overall strategic plan. Obviously, we are in every mood to strengthen this institution. For the first time in ten years, therefore, they have been scheduled to recruit permanent staff, which will hopefully come out in March, eighty-eight seats, especially in the field of dependency, thirty-five of which concern the JET. This is what I think, after a decade of recruitment freeze, it is a signal that the state wants to highlight this sensitive sector, which, of course, the need for reliable care has increased because of the crisis, which are emerging dependency, such as the internet, gambling and alcohol, dependency over time, which has always existed and which has social acceptance, but which has now also been exacerbated by the crisis. Therefore, the needs are too many, the effort we are making is, with the particular difficulties of having increased care and support for this sensitive sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u144	Minister, the drug addiction problem, with all it involves, takes epidemic proportions. We all know that. We, as a Communist Party, are primarily facing it as a social problem that its causes are in the very very nature of the capitalist system and especially in crisis situations. CENTRAL has several times issued a risk signal. We are talking about a body where the effectiveness of the programme is 70%. They're hitting red, that is, the units. In fact, there is also a study with studies where 10% of the 15-year-old students have at least used cannabis. So you didn't say anything different than what you already announced, that is, the thirty-five positions at the CEDEFOP. They've been proclaimed. We're not talking about that, though. No, it's just not a drop in the ocean, but it doesn't even cover the elementary ones. On the other hand, if problems are multiplyed, users, etc., needs are multiplied, but also measures to address them. No planning, therefore, can be carried out without resources, covering the entire duration of these agencies and without, of course, strengthening staff. It is an obligation for the state to take immediate measures and to ensure the sustainability and development of the ERCF. It is a question of social reintegration. I want to tell you something. You know that there are municipalities in the country that have made use of the beneficial law, where it allows them through OAED programmes, a programme of degraded addictive substances to recruit for four years in municipal enterprises in the context of social reintegration, disabled people and people who have been disabled. Nevertheless, the law and a circular of the Interior Ministry of 2015 makes a distinction. After four years, it is legitimate to continue employment in enterprises of LAGs, only for disabled persons, while former users who have been detached and work in municipal enterprises cannot continue after four years. It is the characteristic case of the Municipality of Petroupolis and other municipalities and Thessaloniki, where the decentralised administration annulled a decision of the board of municipal companies for this reason. In fact, the Mayor of Petroupoli has also tabled a request for legislation to the relevant Ministry, in particular Mr Polakis. It has been discussed with him, and I think you and Mr Paulakis should have been informed. In other words, this matter must be dealt with directly by legislation. In any case, the drugs problem, as I have said, is a social issue. So, in the opinion of the Communist Party, this tripartite which says: 'prevention, disarmament and reintegration' rather than being used by the system and governments as a means of ideological hardship'. Because, in the end, drug addictions are used as a means of ideological manipulation, so that young generations cannot raise their heads and get to what we say 'in organised life', 'in organised action', to deal with the problems they have before them every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u145	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u146	My dear colleague, it makes no sense now to have an ideological debate on the subject of dependency. Evidently, dependence is a complex phenomenon. It is a violent, psychosocial phenomenon, so it needs intervention at all levels and a holistic and cross-sectoral logic to deal with. I repeat that we are interested in covering the right of every addict to take care of his or her personality, specificity, to his or her accompanying problems. This requires a serious, national strategic plan, which is always announced, but never moves forward in practice, because what is usually done is a stirring-up of individual operators' proposals. We are therefore very much emphasised at this time in an attempt to establish a functional interconnection of all the actors involved in dependence. Also, to overcome once and for all the frictions or strangulations of the past between those who each have their own role, they have their own know-how, they have their own experience, they have their own ideological stigma. I mean the CITES, the OKANA, the '18 UN', the PNC, prevention centres. Everyone can contribute to this continuation, from prevention to social reintegration. Obviously, the crucial issue is social reintegration. And there, in cooperation with both self-government and with all the other aid initiatives, cooperative forms, forms of social economy, we must enable these people who have given a crucial battle for their lives to actually come back and integrate into society. I think we are really interested in making a serious plan in the next few months and seeing what we can save, over the state budget, from Europe's structural funds. The axes are known. It's what I said before about the operational interface. We want to see - and this is an innovation - interconnect both with primary care structures and with mental health structures, especially at community level. We also want to have an intervention - and we have a very good plan on the part of OKANA - to eliminate the list in 2016, by creating two direct access units in the Attica basin. You know very well that the list is about two and a half thousand people to get into substitution therapy, with twenty targeted recruitments that we're going to make. We have anticipated an increased grant this year to the OKANA, precisely to implement this programme. With an effort to better geographical distribution of services across the country, we want to meet the uncovered needs that exist throughout the population. CEDEFOP has a crucial role to play in this case. It's obviously under the help and care of the state. We have predicted, of the eighty dependency positions, that the thirty-five positions should be for the CTE. This will be a first reinforcement of this institution, after ten years, with staff with a permanent employment relationship. I think it is a political imprint of a special priority given to this part of the treatment of dependency.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u147	We are reaching the last, extremely interesting time-consuming question. It is the second under number 465/1-2-2016 up-to-date question by the National Theatre of the New Democracy MP and a personal friend, Konstantinos Javara, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the “project from the National Theatre with state money of the ideas of a terrorist”. The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr Aristides Baltas. Now, Minister, if you will be fair, it will appear on the opposing side, not 'the applause', as the popular mob says. I would like to congratulate my fellow Member - because he is also a doctor - Mr Igoumenides, who, although he did not have a question, has been following parliamentary scrutiny for the second time this week. Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, thank you very much for your kind speech. Minister, I would like to assure you that I have proceeded with the submission of this question, not because I too would like to join my voice with those who have rushed to declare the despair of an atmosphere which, in particular, turns to the choice of the content and the form of works of art and indeed theatrical ones, which must be dispersed in society. I am convinced that there is no art without freedom. I'm in all sorts of censorship. And I say it, precisely because I also want to assure you that in an open democratic society "those hundred flowers must bloom" and 100 schools to fight in art. But what caused me to deal with the issue is that a cultural organization of the size, value and history of the National Theatre has specific aims. And these aims of the National Theatre, as provided for in Article 1 of Law 2173/1994, which is the statute of the National Theatre, are to promote the intellectual cultivation of the people through the dissemination of the theatre art and at the same time to preserve the national cultural identity. It is precisely in this context that the operation of all the scenes, including the experimental one, is part of which, of course, study and research and experimentation in different forms of theatre are envisaged. In order for this to function, however, the framework, purpose, symbolic - which is predetermined by the history of this institution - to be respected beforehand, must be respected. And supervision - I repeat - not in the form of censorship, but of supervision policy, in the form of control, of the relationship linking the mechanism of production and promotion of the theatrical art from the National Theatre and all other situations created. What is the issue that was created here? I think - and I think you will fully share my thoughts and my objection - that it is the content of our national cultural identity and the tradition of racing against tyranny, which, when it has been necessary to fight against tyranny, has not been developed or sacrificed, to have as a symbolic capital in the cultural organization called the National Theatre all this legacy of the means, the ways, the meanings of the anthem in the value of justice, democracy, freedom and dignity. So when, suddenly, any creator is ordered to work on terrorism - and this was recorded without being disproved - and at the same time when coexistences of texts are then created, which are not just tyranny - frames, for example, the speech of a Albert Cammy, a man who after the Second World War did nothing but fight, fight, resurrect, against injustice, against tyranny, against despoticism - then that very text becomes the frame of a man's thoughts and ideas, who, by his example, became the negligent of democracy, the negligent of human dignity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Javarra, we have to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u150	I'm done. So what I ask is: do you believe that, from this and just the point of view that the law provides for, and the Constitution enshrined in Article 16, this performance should be a production of the National Theatre, when it is a given - and here, in fact, my objection - the creator, could go to the free market, put it into the mind of a public, which, with the ticket he would pay or not pay, would prove what society's attitude towards these phenomena is? I therefore believe that it was not appropriate in terms of supervision to finance with public money such a project. I know, of course, that it has entered Transparency and cost EUR 30 000. There is also a question of legality, because, as you would have seen, one of the members of the suffering took over production.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Javarra, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u152	That's another matter. Perhaps another question had to be asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u153	All right, there will be the relative tolerance of the Minister. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u154	First of all, Mr Javarra, I would like to thank you, Mr Javarra, for the style of your position, but you will allow me to disagree in advance, and I will explain immediately why. We agree - and you said quite rightly - that a Ministry of Culture in republics cannot be a Ministry of Censorship or a Ministry of Propaganda. Otherwise, we'd go a long way. This means, however, that the control of a performance of a national theatre cannot be passed either by the House or by the Ministry of Culture. The Minister of Culture has no power, nor is it even the duty to check in advance a repertoire or to judge a repertoire on the basis of what he does, what he proposes, how the artistic director or the experimental stage specializes in it. What the Minister of Culture is doing - and I will tell you why this is probably excessive - is that he chooses an artistic director, according to certain criteria. It enables the institution to build the repertoire, to develop the experimental stage and to be judged by the overall result on the artistic work and on the part of the Minister to be supervised with regard to the economic and administrative aspects of his work. I would like to say with this that it is not possible for a Minister of Culture to intervene beyond that. And more than I would say is that, as I said, even the choice of the artistic director, and that is a problem, because the law provides excessive freedom to the Minister of Culture in relation to such choices. He is like the Minister of Culture, choosing artistic directors to all the bodies he supervises, to indirectly make at least the taste of Greek society, the ideological approach of a society and so on. Instead, we are looking to find a way to have something like a board of arts or like this, where they can do the main job in relation to those qualified for such posts as an artistic director and because the Minister must have a political responsibility, to be able to choose one of the two. From there on, on the contents. Look, I have not seen the work, I have no opportunity as Minister to speak about the contents of the work as an artistic performance and not just of it, but of anyone and therefore, as Minister of Culture, I deprive myself of the freedom that any viewer or technician has to speak about the work. On this basis, however, I should like to remind you of a few things. You know art is multiform. Some things that at one time are viewed as exaggerated or disrespectful, at another time become masterpieces and so on. I would remind you, for example, that the whole literature of evil has existed. I remind Bataij, wherever and now if we read him, fifty-sixty years later, we are shocked and regarded as modern classic. I'm going further. I remind Dostoyevski. The "Crime and Punishment", where the hero, Raskolnikov, a great hero of world literature, kills a loan shark because he sees it as a parasite and because he wants to rid society of such parasites. From such antisocial behaviour, as you say in your question, they are sometimes built - I do not compare one with the other - great masterpieces of literature. In this sense it is not possible to interfere with a Ministry of Culture on the contents and to function with the founding principles of even a national theatre. I remind you of Solomon. It is national, we have to learn to think national what is true. Truth in art is controversial. All the artistic schools on the truth and the nice one, of course, are trying to negotiate on them and we are not in a position - and we must not be in a position - either as a Parliament or as a Ministry of Culture to intervene in such contents. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the Secretary-General.]] I have two more comments. I'll tell my dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much for the answer. I would also like to say a few words with the tolerance of the President. Indeed, I agree that it has nothing to do with the majority principle of submitting or imposing artistic tastes on society. So taste and aesthetic invention of forms and contents is something created by society itself and, of course, only in forms of totalitarian regimes had official doctrines in art. However, from this same point of view, the agreement - if you like - I can only be seized for the sake of a reasonable approach to events, an intellectual - if you like - of the valuation of certain specific events. I fully accept all the names you mentioned earlier from Batagil to Dostoyevski. In fact, at a time when art was in one - if you wish - contrary to what was common taste, some with social sensitivities, with artistic attitudes for initiation, have created real masterpieces. But, here right behind this work, a wicked thing is hidden, which wants to appear to be also virtuous towards certain circles. So I say straight away, because I do not want to chew my words, Minister. At the moment, under the title "The balance of Nas" someone is joining an activity that refers to the Kamy's theatrical work "Justs" which was created and played in 1949 after the defeat of Nazism and all forms of totalitarianism. So this very attitude is united, the aim of which is the death of each tyrannosicide. This is a historically defined - if you want - mental and political attitude. And at the beginning of the previous century, when there were tsars, when there were great dunes, when the kings were really tyrantly tyranting the people, it was indeed a stand of patriotic, racing, democratic, to facilitate developments by making all the tyrannians out of the midst. After all, love and admiration for the tyranncide from the time of the Triakon in ancient Athens, still has its charm and fascinated. But it is another thing to try to connect it to someone who has been accused and convicted - I am not referring personally to anyone, I am describing situations - for terrorist action in conditions of democracy. I'm invoking - because it's come to my mind now - a very interesting article of the U.S.A. Magakis, who in 1984 had made the dilation between political crime and terrorism. The current terrorism is aimed at democracy itself, freedom itself, justice itself. So, then, many today, repeat that it is not a political crime within a democratic city. So what, which is insidiously, subcutaneously and wickedly, makes this theatrical text - which is made up, is not a repertoire text - has been done specifically to bring together these two elements that I have told you, namely, to give the impression that he is a political criminal who today turns by terrorist means against democracy. And that's what stirs me. And, finally, I want to tell you this. You're much more eminent than me, and even your mathematics, I think, is much better than my own. This title "The Balance of Nash", exactly this contribution to the theory of John Nash's games, which, at least as I studied it, says that he has no profit anyone has to change his strategy when the strategies of the other players remain the same, in fact it is also a trigger to those who today the terrorist, the criminal, choose to hurt democracy. It is a message that says "because democracy is still standing and you must be against it". That's all I had to say. Thank you very much for your reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u157	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. I'm going to continue the previous position, trying to answer what Mr. Javarras said. It's two distinct things. Terrorism, armed struggles, 17 November, Bander-Minhoff and everything else you want, political crime and relation to the former in democracy are a huge issue. The Greek society has been affected by this, as we all know. This, however, is absolutely distinct from art, as everyone means it. In this sense, we could have had this debate, if I were not a Minister, we were not in this Chamber and we were just spectators of a project. I don't know if you've seen the play. I haven't seen it. We could have this debate in relation to - let's say - spectators, technocritically in relation to a project, to see if the title is justified, how it is linked to the contents and so on. In modern forms of art, it is very commonly called heterogeneous texts to compose these texts and to be from different authors. Whole books are written from extracts of other texts. This game has been opened in both literature and theatre. I'm coming back. We do not think - and that is why I say from the outset that this question should not have come to the House - to talk about the content of an artistic work, while we are entitled to talk about all the issues that you have discussed before. This is the main placement. And I say that in the sense of social - if you like - of what crimes of this type mean in recent history ours. Very recent history and not just ours: we have all once said 'Je suis Charlie'. I personally, reading the "Charlie Hebdo" from time to time, was shocking and considered some of his sketches of insulting to me, because it is a magazine, which is supported - some are exceptionally, some are failed, some are shocking - to a principle that says "neither sacred and loyal". Because all men have a sanctuary and a fiancé somewhere my sanctuary is affected. I don't like sketch. I would never say that as a Minister for Culture. I would never dare to write it in that capacity. At the same time, I would say - as many do - 'Je suis Charlie' because this type of satira, even extreme, is not dealt with with arms. I remind you of the excellent literary production in Germany following the story of Bander - Mainhoffn, white cells and so on, and how such literature, which catches things from too many sides, heals wounds. What have we got here? We had a performance, which may have been an excellent one, it may have been a masterpiece, it may have been a very bad one, it may have been what it wants, but instead of getting into this conversation as a spectators, this has been a political one. The cries have come to be absolutely extreme. We have come to demand political measures to bring about a theatrical performance instead of discussing it in the areas of artistic and political terms to discuss the issue of terrorism, white cells and so on. This confusion is also at the expense of understanding our recent history and at the expense of the theatre itself as an institution and artistic creation in general. In this sense, the artistic director was found in the need to download the work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u159	It's done. He didn't come down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u160	This is a major trauma to freedom of expression. And just because there were all kinds of threats, tones went up at all levels. It was like the National and, of course, SYRIZA praised terrorism. It was a trauma to all of us. In this sense, this debate is very interesting. We could do it in private, if you like, as viewers of any work. But I would say that the House and the Ministry should not be involved in the repertoire content. From there on, as we have said with Solomon, we can find other relevant wastes. Art must be free, because what is shocking us today is what exposes us, if we deal with it by administrative measures, may, after ten or fifty years, be regarded as the masterpiece of the era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u161	To close, therefore, I also have to say to you, Minister, and to Mr Javarra that in the twenty years that I have been in here is one of the finest moments of parliamentary debate I have had this evening. In this respect, I disagree with you. In the House these debates must be held, but at this level, without screams and without whispers and without hints. I mean, backwards. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen - which ladies and gentlemen, we are three and we are the couch! - The topical and urgent debate is closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-04-S1-commons.u162	With the consent of the House at 20.36 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, February 5, 2016 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the topical and urgent debate and (b) the debate on Question No 16/11/22-1-2016.
