ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House the Topical and urgent Question Bulletin of Friday, 25 November 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 229/21-11-2016 by MP Florina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Selca to the Minister for Rural Development and Food regarding the concession of the use of a farm by the Ministry of Rural Development to the Prespecies Protection Company for the purpose of highlighting, maintaining and demonstrating the traditional water medal to the Holy German Prespecies. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 234/21-11-2016 topical question by MP Kilkis of New Democracy Mr Georgiou Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food regarding the non-payment of basic aid to thousands of farmers. 3. The Question No 223/16-11-2016 by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the immediate payment of the compensation for 2016 by OPECEP to beneficiaries. 4. The question by No 224/18-11-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Michael Jeleighis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food regarding Decision 924/21-5-2016 on the conditions for eligibility of the beneficiaries of associated rice aid. 5. The question by No 242-22-11-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Christos Katsotis, on measures to remove refugees from the islands of the Aegean Sea. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 230/21-11-2016 topical question by MP Samos of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Migration Policy on the implementation of measures to address the prolonged refugee - immigration crisis in Samos. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The report by Mr Ioannis Koutsoukus, Member of the Ilias, of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the extension of the renting of parcels of the neighbouring local communities of the former Agulinitsa Lake of the Regional Unit of Elia. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the debate of the first under number 3/3-10-2016 question by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, on the revision of the country's deficit data for the period 1995-2013 from Eurostat. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much. Minister, about a month and a half ago I asked a written question. He didn't answer, but maybe it's better, because we'll talk about it today. So the latest, and without an asterisk update of Eurostat's financial deficit for the period 1995-2013, which was published last July, has given a great surprise, if not all, to many Greeks. The above figures were sent by the Bank of Greece to the committee responsible for debt and impairment. I have the e-mails here. I'm sure you know them, so I don't have to testify to them in the Minutes of the House. What, then, is the result of this in conclusion? That in 1999, when the country was prepared to join EMU, and while the then government of Mr Simitis told us that the deficit was less than 3%, which was the prerequisite for a country entering EMU, they finally said it was 3.5%. But the evidence comes and shows that the deficit in 1999 was 5.8%. Not even 3.5%. If anyone sees their course, they're in 1998 at 6.3%. Even more, what was surprising about the reports and the figures made by Mr Georgios on the final deficit is that in 2003 the deficit had reached 7.8%. And at the same time what else does it show? That between 2004 and 2007, i.e. before the mid-term crisis broke out, the deficit had fallen compared to the medium-term deficit of 1995-2003. If this evidence is accepted as a government and it is true - I refuse to believe that the Bank of Greece may have sent to the House of Greeks elements that do not correspond to reality - you realise that here a huge subject arises and that the request for an examination committee to be set up, which will investigate how Greece entered the memorial on that amazing day with the beautiful background of Kastelorizos in 2010. I would therefore like to ask one question in my prototype. Do you accept as a government that it is really the evidence sent by the Bank of Greece to the House? If you accept them, I would like you to tell me whether you agree with all that reasoning and cannonism which fell by the Lycabet - that is to say, that is to say, the only thing that was lacking - to celebrate our entry into EMU, as it turns out, is false evidence. If we were right to enter or didn't enter, and if that's what contributed or is not in the interest of the country, it's another story. And whether or not we should be in the euro, it is also another story. I personally am praying to tell you that now it's a one-way road. We have to be in the euro. But I would like you to answer that question about the facts and the rest will be discussed in my second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Euclidis Tsakalotos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Colleague, for the question. It is obvious that we accept the figures, which are not from the Bank of Greece, which are from ELSTAT, which the Bank of Greece submitted to the committee you mentioned. The issue is how the data are assessed and how the changes are evaluated. The fundamental change in deficits is due to the change in the European system of accounts, which we now call the ESA 2010. In other words, it could be said that the results are not comparable as they result from two different calculation methods. This change changes the way in which different national accounts are taken into account and the calculation of debt and deficit. In other words, I should like to explain a few things to you about why this change has taken place, how it is measured: There is a change in the classification of entities. Factors that affect: It is an entity that is controlled by the State and whether they are making transactions outside the market. So, for example, the OSH classification has changed, because it makes out-of-market transactions, and so it is now within the general government. Changed classification of unique transfers, that is, what we call lump summer payments, pension systems, and there are others for interest rates swaps, swaps, etc. So my first answer is 'yes', that we accept them, secondly, that it is difficult to reach a conclusion, because it is by another method the new recording of data and political conclusions that we can discuss them after your second speech, since you wanted me to be a little limited to my first answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u6	Mr Minister, first of all I thank you for the very clear answer you have given, because a myth is now beginning to break down, because a part of the political system and part of the economic situation in the country does not even say much or much that it is because the five-year-old Karamanlis entered the Memorandum. Here, now, it turns out to be by far that this myth is now swallowing, with evidence from the Bank of Greece, that the mission of the document is signed by Mr Stournara, the architect of that time, 1999, on the deficit of 3.5%, with which we entered Europe. Because he was the architect, and today he comes and says that. At the same time, what do they prove? That from five years, in the three years, the Karamanlis government deficit was concentrated on the 1995-2003 deficit, ruled by Mr Simitis. So it is the second great truth and the second myth, which is dissolved and swallowed. I am not going to go to how this famous 15.7 came out, even with the Bank's information, which has been sent by e-mail, as you have seen, is 15.2 after Mr Georgios put his hand on. And there's a 0.6% difference. Even in them there is a difference. So now I want you to tell me how the government is dealing with the question of a committee of inquiry to finally find out how we entered the memorandum. Because, at the same time, not even the fanatical fighters of the five-year Karamanlis - we had an unemployment of 7.5% - that is not what the New Democracy says, the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, has said from the Step of the House - which means too much money in the insurance system. Remember what the spread values were at the time. So I wonder, at 100 and 50 points, what was the need to get into the memorandum? I don't understand it. Now, based on this evidence and the two data I'm telling you, I can't figure out how we entered and why we entered the memorandum and called the IMF. We probably entered the IMF, and that resulted in the Memorandum. Nor do I now want to invoke the figures of the Swedish Institute for Peace on the armaments programme at that time, where ECU 86 billion is needed. They were our equipment. And in proportion to GDP, listen! - We're the fifth country in the world on equipment. After the US, Russia, China, India, it was Greece, I repeat, not numerically, in proportion to our GDP. So these things cannot stay in the dark. And in the end, would you like me to tell you something? It is also a weapon in the hands of the current government in connection with the negotiation and, above all, with debt write-downs, which we support in any way. Because 25% of the debt, as demonstrated by the Institute of Sweden, was for equipment we took from either Germany or America. What now come to move our finger on debt and make it hard for them to see whether or not a setup is to be made? Nor do I want to talk now, because it is not appropriate, that for those equipment a leading minister of that government is in prison. These, then, are questions that need to be answered, so that the Greek people can know exactly what had happened at the time. The main question of my dentistry is how you would see - we will vote for this committee - and if you take the initiative to be a committee of inquiry so that we can finally learn how we have led to the memorandum with all the consequences.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u8	First of all, I agree that the expenditure on armaments is an important part of the debt problem we have. It was something that was imposed, because NATO and Europe never provided so much security for Greece that it felt it could reduce them. Perhaps he could have reduced them or made a rationalization. I agree that there are other things that you did not say, which should be said, about how the problem was created with the banks and what banks were saved when the first memorandum was made. It's too many issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u9	The foreign banks you mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u10	Yeah, that's right. I will not now enter into arbitration as to whether it is the governments of the New Democracy or the PASOK, and I do not think that this is my role in this matter. Let me say, of course, that you did not say about the 2009 figure, where there was a very large increase in the deficit from 2007 to 2008 and from 2008 to 2009. So there's a responsibility there, too, to the Karamanlis government. But if you want my own analysis, if we want to look in depth because we have entered the memorandum, we need to distinguish these deficits from the expenditure side and from the revenue side. I think both parties have a great responsibility. If you look at the time series on expenditure and revenue, the costs of the Greek Government from when we entered EMU to the crisis are almost at the level that it is in the European Union. We can have a very serious debate about whether expenditure was effective and whether we could spend it better. But it was in size, in quantity, the same percentage. However, what the two parties had much lower than the average in Europe was revenue, and that is where an analysis is needed. My analysis is that tax evasion and tax reduction were part of the New Democracy and PASOK system to build social alliances. And that is why you and PASOK are responsible, in my view. Now, in order not to avoid the more specific question of the examination, I will say that all these issues, in my view, have an academic aspect. In other words, look at the figures, what happened - and not just those elements, but there are other elements that need to be analysed - but it also has a political aspect. I do not think that examination is the best framework - the government has not taken a position, so I do not answer as a government, I personally answer - to make this confrontation. I think it should be done in a scientific way and then in political conclusions, but without this climate created by the committees of inquiry, which have their role in other matters. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister. Subsequent to the second under number 204/14-11-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the transfer of the services of the Ministry of Finance to the Kerani building. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I come back after nearly seven months of my previous time question to Mr Alexiades, where we raised the issue early in March, for the destruction of public money. I would like to remind you of the EUR 70,000,000 cost of building the Horn Building. The rents, which the Treasury pays, which oversees and oversees all public, vacant or non-vacuum properties, amounted to over 230,000 euros a month to rent buildings for its services and at the same time paid 221,000 euros a month to keep the Kerani building empty. I shall refer to my dentistry and to some other elements and details. The Minister was then committed that a symbolic move would be the relocation of the services of the Ministry of Finance, as I said, instead of the 232,000 euros, which we give this month, to go to a building that is ours and we pay it to be empty. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I won't be long. You ask yourself, Mr Minister: which services have already been transferred to the Kerani building? What is the level of savings from the first phase of conversion so far? When will the relocation of all the services of the Ministry of Finance be completed? What is the level of savings resulting from total conversion? I have another question. Do we have a problem with the employees' trade union, do they have a veto in their relocation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for your question. The truth is that so far no department of the Ministry of Finance has been relocated. To date, the building has installed the newly established service of the Private Debt Management Secretariat of the Ministry of Economy with a decision signed on October 26th. She'll number ninety-five employees. If the above-mentioned Office were to be housed in another property, in the process of the Greek State, the State would pay a monthly rent, ranging from EUR 6 to EUR 10, the square metre. The rent that corresponds to the place occupied by this Office is almost EUR 15,000 a month. So this is saving due to the avoidance of renting a new building. I think we need to have a design. We now have the data from the scattered pieces, not just of the Ministry of Finance, but of other ministries, about what rents we pay. We need a plan, which is not just for the Ministry of Finance, but it can also be for other ministries, because many ministries have a service here and a service there. It takes a study, and I think we will be able to take advantage of this building in the future. Do not forget that part of the government's strategy is the inspection of expenditure by all ministries. Mr. Juliarakis, who runs this, began with three ministries in the first phase, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture. In 2017 this will be extended to all ministries, so that there can be savings. Our strategy is, all these savings go to specific social needs, that is to say, to make savings, which can favour the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Education for Social Needs, so within this audit of expenditure, it will also be the specific issue that you put today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I will be caught by the fact that you have given us - and it is a pleasant news - to relocate a new service. I just had the impression - because a table has been released, and I would like you to verify it - that ten small-scale services of the Ministry were in the relocation process. I read them: Office of Deputy Minister of Finance, General Secretariat of the Public Property, Central Services, Regional Department of Public Property of the Aegean Sea, Regional Department of Public Property of Attica, under the General Secretariat of the Public Property. Afterwards, the Special Secretariat of the Hellenic Economic Crime Corps, central services, Regional Directorate of Attica and the Aegean, Special Secretariat of the Private Debt Management, which went, and the DU Nice - Korydalou. I've got the addresses. These General Secretariats and addresses were the impression - and we had a text - that they were already in a relocation process. Please, if you want to confirm or give it to me - if you did not have it in mind - to see it, because it is important at least to do a follow-up on them. Second, let's say that the Kerani building is a building with a forty thousand square square meters emblem. The jobs it can cover are from two thousand to two thousand four hundred and the parking lot has a capacity of six hundred fifty parking places. I have full details of the spensing and I will give them to you - and to Mr Juliarakis, I did not know that this review has been made - for all the ministries. It's 108.5 million rents we give it all. The big one was the Public Order of 22 million, because we also have the police security departments in Greece that rent. Nevertheless, through the spensing review - and you quite rightly say, that is to say, the management of public spending - we have to see - I do not want to be misunderstood, but I have the details of the services of the Ministry of Finance - and how much rent they give. For example, the CEMP gives the month 32,870, the CEMP gives 18,440 per month, the CEMP gives 15,360 per month, the CSTP 11,235, the 8,000 TEN and - take care of gentlemen - the CSTD gives 135,000 euros a month for rent. All this, if we collect it, they make us about 300,000 euros as rents a month for seven services. For twelve months they've been making us 3,600,000. It's part of the 24 million that the Treasury gives. I will come back, because we need to check - and I honestly will check it, without plundering - to whom we give these rents. Where does the IMO give 135 grand rents? Who's the owner of the property? Why can't we relocate? Let's start from the Treasury to house our house, because it's also the image of the economy. We cannot tell the citizen to cut costs or look for 24 million for the CSCE, and to give three and four and five million in rent to private individuals, while we have empty public buildings. Minister, thank you very much. If you have data and we can, I would like to verify the relocation. Please don't time the building's empty. I do not want to plunder, but 220,000 per month for the Horn to be empty, the Greek citizen cannot do so, and I would ask that we solve it, at least, in this government and set a good example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u18	Mr Colleague, there is no doubt that we agree on the target. The cases you have said are under study. They hadn't been decided, so this study continues. We need to find the right synergies. There are issues and policies that need to be resolved. For example, it is a question, when you have an independent authority, the GDR, which will become ADI, whether it should be in the same building as the Deputy Minister or the Secretary now. There are a few sensitive issues that we need to study. It's not the sovereign. The dominance is what you said, that is, saving money, finding synergies, being effective, not having to travel from one side of Athens to another in order to consult the services that need to be consulted. So we will have to move forward - I understand your question - faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Minister. Subsequent to the first 195/11-11-2016 question of the first cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the removal of obstacles to the exploitation of the former Greek airport. Mr. Constantinople has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me, Minister, for a second because you have had a question with Mr Kaklamani. You know that we have submitted a request for a committee of inquiry since the day we entered the memorandum. Neither you nor the New Democracy want to touch the Karamanlis era, and so we have voted for your own examination as a Democratic Compact and of the New Democracy. When you decide to see the Karamanlis period, we're here. But let's get to the point. We said, if you remember - and you remember very well - whether we could every two months be informed about the Greek. We have said so on the day it was voted, and indeed by a very large majority. We haven't been in the papers since. We met with Mrs Spyropoulou, who is in Greek, and we did all these procedures, to see where this great investment is, and you are now also saying that it must be implemented - I don't mean personally, I mean SYRIZA - and when it will be attributed to the investor in order to be able to proceed with the investment. I will ask you immediately specific questions, so that we can have the answers we need. We have read that the issue of conservation by the Ministry of Culture has been resolved. We would like your opinion, as is the case with the archaeological sites. Secondly, there is the Greek Office, which we have in the contract. Has he been assigned? Where is this procedure? When will his staff be completed? Thirdly, there is - it is well known now - that the strategic environmental impact study of the project needs to be consulted. Ministry of the Environment. You're the coordinator. Where is this procedure? Fourthly, the investor - you as a TDI, I do not know how, as a ministry - needs to prepare a master plan, which must testify, in order to reach and complete this and go to the process of issuing the Presidential Decree. I leave for the second part the issue, which you know very well, and we have discussed it here, namely, the issue of casinos, which you have put to my question. What's going on? There are several issues. You said you'd solve them in the process after the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, there were delays, because we wanted a renegotiation to take place. We wanted to get more money ahead. We wanted there to be greater investment in works of general interest, parks, etc. I think we did that. In other words, this is worth it, because investments do not only have quantitative time, they also have quality time. You know that in September 2016, an agreement was signed between the authorities responsible for relocating from the property of the OSH train station and the services of the OSH, other than FIR Athens, and the relocation process for the remaining public bodies. The necessary maturity of the property, in cooperation with all relevant departments - the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of the Environment, the Forestry, etc. - which is expected to be completed in the near future. Also, in the very near future is the submission of the projects and studies concerned, such as the strategic environmental impact study, which you mentioned, the integrated development plan. The procedure for the adoption of the Presidential Decree, which will lay down the conditions for the development of the area, will then be initiated. The casino is being delayed a little longer, because we want to testify to a casino strategy, more generally. There's also one topic for other casinos and how the interaction to the market will be. However, I do not think that is something that will delay the project as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, I personally do not understand what the expression 'in the near future' means. So, it's ten months, it's a year, it's three months? You quite rightly said that the area that was for the free space existed from the contract. But it is very important - and we have said so, because we have no problem with it - that the investor will pay for maintaining this space and for security. It is very important and very positive and we are seeing it. You say today that you want the money to come. In order for the first 300 million euros to come to the Greek state, however, we must deliver it to the investor. In order to start the process and reduce unemployment, work should begin. I hope the others will understand - I would like you to be more specific. If you want to. I asked you five questions, which you answered with an ambiguity. What is the plan of the government to move these issues forward and to deliver the work to the investor to start this large investment? Otherwise, this big investment isn't coming. So, the Department of the Environment will take her out to consultation in a month, ten days? Are we done with the Ministry of Culture? With the Forestry, where did you say, are we done? As far as the casino is concerned, I get it. That's right, that's why I put it as a second topic. For all this, is there a clarity on the part of the government about the timeframe? Last time, when you came here in September 2016, you said - maybe it didn't like - "I'll sign it". So, Minister, I expect you - and I think everyone expects it - to listen to this great project - which you believe now - when it will bring revenue to the state and when the project will start to bring new jobs. I think that's what's interesting about the world. I hope you're clearer in your dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u26	It is not easy to be clear when so many actors are involved. I think you understand that from your own experience too. There are many operators, many relocations. In other words, there are many things that need to be done. What I can tell you - and I do not know whether it will satisfy you with clarity or not - is that when we have the investor's plan, I think we have a semester to go far faster and get to what is being pursued. So I don't want to be completely clear, 'cause then you're gonna make me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u27	The staff of the Greek office is in your responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u28	This is all going on. I think there is nothing to disagree with, because, since we have the agreement and the renegotiation has no reason to delay in this area. So I am absolutely sure that everyone in my ministry - as in the other ministries you say - is working hard to end this in a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, MP II Athens, New Democracy, Anna Asmakopoulou, seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad for professional reasons, during the period from 24 November to 29 November 2016 and from 3 December to 11 December 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u30	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We continue with the third with number 182-7-11-2016 timely question of the first cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the management of the red loans of the former ATEbank, in an unfair manner for its debtors. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, after the separation of the Agricultural Bank into 'good' and 'bad', eight thousand agricultural loans and twelve thousand housing loans came to the 'bad' bank. This has resulted in twenty thousand - and not only - people being hostages at the moment of a situation, since within these twenty thousand, they include the members of their families, but also the guarantors, who come from either the friendly or the close relative environment or the professional area. Because, as you know, Minister, these loans at the moment with high interest rates and settlements cannot be served, as the recipients of these loans are unable to renegotiate as receivers of other red loans, which can have special conditions and regulate them. The legal offices, Minister, which have been entrusted with the specific management of these loans, are currently calling for 10% advance payment and repayment in a very short time, threatening these people with seizures, auctions of their assets, even agricultural machinery. Minister, the description of this situation creates, in my view, greater damage to the Greek economy, to the Greek banks, but also to social cohesion than any change to the best of this situation. After that, Minister, you ask, if you recognize that the management of the red loans of the former ATEbank is unfair to its debtors and problematic. If so, what moves do you intend to make to correct? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. As you know, the withdrawal of a licence to the Agricultural Bank took place in 2012. We were against this solution chosen. I remember having had a strong controversy with Mr Stournara on this matter. There was a problem of corporate governance at the time. I am not saying that everything was well with the Agricultural Bank. But I think there could be other solutions at the time. We're where we are. I think there is a possibility of renegotiation the debtors under the terms of the other banks. That is why there is also the special clearer, who must ensure, by means of arrangements for the debts, the possibility of paying the debt on the part of the debtor. As stated by the Bank of Greece in its relevant document: ‘The main criterion for the formulation of the arrangement proposed is the viability of this, which, as far as possible, is ensured by extending the repayment period, providing for a grace period and reducing part of the claim, in particular outward interest. Consequently, the framework of debt arrangements of the credit institutions under special liquidation does not deviate from what the commercial banks in operation are applying, while the provisions of the existing legislative framework apply to real estate auctions.’ I therefore think that the framework at the moment can give the people you mentioned more opportunity than what you have suggested. However, this is an issue that we can follow more to see if it is in a better position than other cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you will allow me to tell you that I am not completely satisfied with your reply. We are not satisfied with the fact that you can also follow in the light of the second evaluation, where you say 'we will monitor it'. In view of the second assessment, you will also be negotiating with the institutions and the red loans. Inside the red loans were the loans of these people. So I waited today for you to tell me what design the Ministry has for even these twenty thousand. They are not only the recipients of the loans of the National Bank or Alpha Bank. And we should not penalise people who have chosen to take loans from the Agricultural Fund from our side. It is not these people's fault for the rural mess. Because, in other words, we could not punish ourselves in the past, but neither now, the leadership of the Agricultural Bank for the destruction of public money, are we now coming and putting these people in a difficult position? I would really like to see your commitment to this. And I would like the solution within a time horizon, so that these people can feel a confidence in their future. In fact, their situation - all of them - is bad. They're poor people, they're human beings. Most of the loans are agricultural. They come from the rural area. It is not one of those farmers who took the loans and did it and it is. They are people who threw them either into their work or to get a home in their area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u37	My briefing, my colleague, on agricultural loans, according to the document of the special liquidator of ATE in liquidation, is that in 2015, a framework has been designed with favourable, as far as possible, conditions such as a reduction in total debt, a satisfactory repayment time. These arrangements have already met a sufficient number of farmers - debtors. You are now setting a more general framework for the agricultural sector. We, of course, have negotiated in the last negotiations on red loans and, of course, have put on the subject you are referring to. In fact, we think that with the new framework - you will see it in a few days' time - for the extra-judicial compromise - there will also be farmers, not only in the bank, but they may also have debts in tax or social contributions - farmers will be able to exploit this new framework together with the framework that I think I described to you. I accept what you said, namely that most people suffering from this are not big farmers, but people who need special care. You can be sure that we are considering this. It is an important problem and a social and economic one. It is social for the reasons that you have said better than me, but also economic, because if these cannot be solved, they cannot breathe, so they cannot do new processes and jobs, and so everyone loses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twelve students and students and two educational attendants from the private high school "Dimantopoulou". The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Welcome back, guys. I would just like to inform you, in order to have an accurate picture of what you are following, that parliamentary scrutiny is being carried out this morning in Parliament. In other words, there are Members who also ask questions from the Minister who answer the questions put by Members. Members who ask questions are attending the meeting, and the Minister is present. That is why the image of the House is not an image with many Members. I'm saying this, so you don't create a false picture of the functions. I'm telling you, to get an accurate picture of what we're doing here this morning. Subsequent to the second question by Mr Leonida Gregorakos, Minister of Finance, 31/3-10-2016, a second question by the Independent MEP, Mr Leonida Gregorakos, about the compensation of shareholders of the Cooperative Banks. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, I would like you to accept what I would like to say as a good criticism of the slowness of yours, of course, and of the government, to answer my question for eight months. But I understand that this is a question that you could not easily answer. However, in order to continue with these children, which the President has said, I would like to say that the topical questions, Mr Minister, have, as you can see, been enacted in order to control the government and have a certain purpose within the framework of democracy and the institution of Parliament. In other words, they have the search, they have the debate, the consultation, they have the criticism, the adversarial, the dialogue, they have the control. That is why we ask you this question. My question was tabled in February 2016, that is, for eight months. I understand it's a tough question. That's why I won't expand much. But I really want you to answer me. We are being watched by many Greeks, Mr President, now. It is a very important issue. I understand that the government could not answer and that is why the Minister was late to come here. And I say all that in good faith. Minister, I tabled the question on 10 February 2016 and related to the major issue of compensation for the cooperative banks' depositors. Big deal, Mr President! These depositors to enjoy higher deposit rates had turned to banking products from cooperative banks. As far as bank managers are concerned, we must make our criticism, Minister, all of us. I am making it self-criticism and making my criticism for the past few years of the role played by bankers and banks in the whole situation that the country is facing today. It's just another time, it's very serious. You have an opinion on this, but as it stands and on the whole of the country's political system. It was a game that we were never able to clear up, Mr President, and it was never given responsibility to the bank executives and the ordinary bank officials, who, of course, were taking orders from some executives above them. So they bound small executives with the orders of the senior executives, that there is no risk of anyone putting their money - in view of the highest interest rates - and that this money would certainly be. One of these banks, which has been badly affected, and there are too many depositors, is the Peloponnese Bank. Those who had deposited their money on mixed bank products cannot take their statements, Minister, and you know it. I understand it's hard. So I ask this question and I want you to answer me in particular. Can you change with retroactive effect, the status of cooperative units of the bank, so that they are considered under conditions as investment and deposit, and in order to be able to compensate, Minister, those people who have invested money in cooperative banks? I have prepared, to help, a legislative initiative, an amendment - which I am ready to put before you - so that micro-enterprises can be excluded up to EUR 100,000. Something must be done for these people. I told you that too many people are watching us now. They have appealed to justice, Minister, but, as you know, the Greek courts - with all due respect for justice and the institution - are late to make decisions, and all these people are on board hanging. So I believe that the best of you, of course, if you have the political will, because I know that it is a difficult decision, is the initiative of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister for Finance, Mr Euclidis Tsakalotos, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u41	Mr Colleagues, you actually raise two points, as I understand the question. The first issue relates to what information the banks gave when asking me, from you, to put a share in it. This is a big issue in Europe in general. You will have observed that there have been too many trials, which have been won by people who went either against insurance funds or against banks, where they told the court that they told us specific things about what this investment package I buy and gave and provided insurance companies and banks with wrong information about what it is. That is the issue. So, in my view, we must consider whether our legal framework - and perhaps I should also discuss it with the Justice Ministry - covers these people if a bank, an insurance company, gives the wrong information about what this package is. It must be able to go to the courts and receive compensation and quickly as it is done in European countries. I also agree with what you said in Britain'slow justice is no justice', namely that the late justice is not justice. Now, the second part of your question - I think we are in the first agreement - is whether we can deal with the shares, in a way, as if they were deposits. And as the deposits from the deposit guarantee system, 100,000 euros per bank, are protected, it can be done for that too. Unfortunately, the European Union directive, which we incorporated in the House, 4370/2016, does not allow us to do so. So he says the shares aren't like deposits, they're like shares. And as you know, in the haircut series always when it's cleared, when there's a problem - and that's with the new bail system - in-, the shares are one of the first to get tired, that is, they have the first row. In other words, the European framework says that what you ask me is not possible. He says the share is not a deposit, the share is like a stock. It is like a microinvestment and this is quite binding, as you can see, so we can do something about the second part of the question. However, I think it remains important to discuss the first part of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Minister. Mr Gregorakos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u43	Minister, I understand that this is a difficult thing and you cannot now respond to parliamentary scrutiny. However, I have specific proposals to make: to deal with these depositors, as treated by ASPIS. As we did then the arrangement for S.H.I.E.L.D.'s shares, see if this can be done now. So my proposal is kind, kind, and political. I think, Minister, that if you have time, you should soon call on these depositors to see how far this problem gets - because the problem is too long - and make a decision. I have told you that I have the amendment which I will table to help you. The amendment is ready. I have discussed it with colleagues who know about these issues and I have prepared it to give it to you. From this point on, I believe that this is a major political issue, as you said, not only in Greece but also in the European acquis, whether the banks correctly inform, whether they treat citizens on an equal footing, with the same information and who are those who, Mr Minister, at some point, we need to know - and in Greece we need to know - were giving the wrong information, putting our fellow citizens in and getting some shares of various banks and other institutions and insurance funds, but, ultimately, this information was false information, so that they deceived many Greek depositors. I think they've lost a lot of their money. Some are worthwhile people, they are businessmen of the market, who have been in a bad position since you have not taken the initiative to see what is going to happen to these people. I think you'll see it in good faith and invite them to discuss it with them. I am tabling the amendment to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u45	Three brief comments. The first is that I will say nothing more about what you said about banks and information, because I understand that we have a full agreement on this issue. So there's no need to comment. The second point is that it goes without saying that I will look at the amendment and solutions that may exist and see what room we have. There is no doubt about that. The third brief comment is that in our Government we are convinced that a new wave of cooperative banks is a component of our development policy. Cooperative banks have many advantages. Of course, we must plan it from the beginning, have better corporate governance. I am not talking about a particular one, but I say that there were cooperative banks that did not have good corporate governance. But they have many advantages. For example, commercial banks have too much tendency to lend pre-cyclically. What does it mean procyclically? That they lend abundantly when the economy goes well and shuts it down completely when things don't work out. That is why I want to inform you that we are in contact with the spärkassen of Germany, which is a quite successful model, to see how we can have a new wave of cooperative banks to help the development plan in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate is closed and we are interrupting for five (5 minutes) to enter the agenda for legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘Integration into Greek legislation of Directive 2014/94/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 on the development of alternative fuel infrastructures, simplification of the authorisation procedure and other provisions of fuel and energy service stations and other provisions’. The bill was debated and passed at the beginning of yesterday. Today's session will discuss the articles of the bill as one unity. The procedure is as follows: The rapporteurs and special speakers will first speak on the articles, then the remaining two speakers, who will speak in principle and on the articles, and then take the floor to those who are enrolled in the articles. The majority rapporteur, Mr Konstantinos Spartinos, has the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, yesterday I think that, as in the committees, the Minister and all the rapporteurs, the speakers and colleagues who have placed themselves on the draft law were presented in detail. I will not repeat what I think has been quite thoroughly presented yesterday on all the chapters and articles in the bill. I would like only from the debate so far and from the hearing of the bodies which we had in committee to highlight two - three specific points, which have, I believe, been particularly concerned by our meetings. The first point is that we had a broad consensus on the principle in this bill, and I think this is due not only to the fact that most of the first chapter was the transposition, the incorporation of a directive into national law, because there were many other articles and other chapters, which also raised issues other than the directive, which had no obligation to implement, as the directive stands, and I think they were such as that which corresponded to the real needs of the economy, society, the protection of the environment and the strengthening of employment. And that is why I think it is not easy for anyone to oppose this draft law in principle. Of course, I would like to note that some of the opposition parties, when for those reasons I have explained - in line with the real needs of society and the economy - are voting in favour of a draft law, consider their obligation, because of the tactical nature of their parties, to counteract the government over every other scientist. We have also followed this yesterday from a number of positions, particularly from the Special Speaker of the Democratic Independence and the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. They told us about a lot of other things, absolutely irrelevant. They told us about the impasse of the government with the troika she left, she says, so the second negotiation stopped. We almost moved and we were crying because the troika left. Because they obviously forgot to say that this was pre-aggregated, that the troika would stay until yesterday and then leave and that the debate would continue in other ways and continue. I would say that the most interesting aspect of the New Democracy in particular was, at some point, to place itself on the very serious problems of this second negotiation, of labour rights. In other words, the New Democracy should tell us whether it is in the interests of the BSE and the International Monetary Fund for the liberation of redundancies, in order to keep the landscape of labour rights unreserved or not, and is in agreement with all the other social bodies of employers and workers who are today in the same position as the government and who are negotiating and who are, I would say, in essence along with the Government on this issue. They talked to us about the refugee, the deadlock of the refugee, the deadlock of the Cyprus issue, the statements by Mr Erdogan about Losan, the "Chamiko". All this was remembered and we were told yesterday, I assume as a counterweight to the vote that they gave to this draft law at first. This is a comment which I could not do. I will go on with the issues of the draft law more specifically, about the points that I have said to you. Today, with this framework that comes under the directive and other provisions, a national framework on alternative fuels can be launched. We heard yesterday - and other colleagues who have experience in this area - various ideas, opinions and proposals, which, as long as they were not able to integrate them into a single strategic plan. I think that today is an opportunity with all that they have told us to contribute to creating this national framework of policy and strategy on this area, which is a very dynamic sector, not only in markets, but also in society and in the economy, it also affects employment, and it must also be adapted and developed in such a way that it is in the social interest. I would also like to make a comment here on the position of my dear colleague from the Communist Party of Greece. I understand his negative vote. It is not so much a question of voting, because it is a directive of the European Union and it is a whole thing against it. That's a point of view. But I would like to comment on the fact that the progress of man since the first tool from stone to this day has been made in a regime which, for a very short time, if we look at it in the whole history of humanity, was socialism in just part of humanity. This does not mean that because of what the man achieved outside the period of socialism it is for flying and did not help him improve the quality of his life. Alas, if we wait every time to solve the social issue and then try every day to improve the lives of our fellow people, the lives of all of us with the progress that society is making, which, obviously, within a capitalist regime, is the issue of profit and the issue of exploitation of all these new opportunities that are being opened up. No one disputes this, nor will anyone argue on the left that with such bills or other relevant legislation, the social issue is resolved. We simply think that we cannot be against any evolution in the face of a general ideological platform, which is constantly repeated and - let me say - in a very monotonous way, which is not creative. I would like to make two final remarks: one is for Article 28. There it is clear to the large majority that the question of safety cannot haggle it with the issues of costs. However, the cost should not only be measured as the cost of transporters, companies, which are actually charged and for which the Ministry should do what the Minister has said and committed, namely negotiating a discount package with concessionaires for their tolls and the second and most important, which concerns the entire population, to proceed quickly to analogue tolls. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. Costs need to be seen in total as a social cost, which costs the final consumer. On the one hand, they say that it is being burdened by increased tolls, but on the other hand there is the destruction of the side road, its maintenance, traffic accidents, fatal accidents. This social cost, shouldn't we count it? And the last thing I want to say is a comment made on Article 29, on TEIs and higher TEIs, that they are left out and that the Government is not interested in the rights of this category of our fellow citizens. That's wrong. First of all, to remind colleagues who had the government before, that in 2014 a project was passed for diplomat engineers. They had not at that time predicted for graduated technicians. Today, we, this government, have promised that the Ministry that brings the bill, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, will have a holistic approach to the question of TEIs and not just the graduate engineers. The question of TEIs and the rights of graduates of these schools is a more general matter. And then, of course, once this issue has been resolved, I, too, support it - and I also support it - will be the same regulation for the engineering masters' industry as for mechanics. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Constantine Karamanlis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, before I begin, to make a brief comment, because I have heard the rapporteur from the Couple complain because some Members of Parliament, the rapporteur for the Democratic Independence, have referred to some issues of topicality. As far as Mr Kefaliannis is concerned, I think he did so with a very mild tone. You all know that within this Parliament we cannot treat people. Isn't that right? In other words, if anything, the parliamentary representatives are able - and this is why they are here and are provided for in the Rules of Procedure - to refer to more generally topical issues. I will be brief, Mr President. This bill is moving in the right direction, because it simply establishes self-evident. It harmonizes our internal legal order with a European directive and lays down provisions which are part of the OECD recommendations, an organization of which - let us not forget - when SYRIZA was opposition, it had based almost all the proposals. I would particularly like to refer to the two articles, which I think are the most controversial. First of all, we are talking about Article 28, which prohibits the movement of vehicles more than three and a half tonnes on the side road. As many other colleagues have pointed out, there have been several reactions from the relevant bodies in this article, which are basically at risk of increasing transport costs. In the committee, following a proposal made by the Qualified Opposition, but also by other fellow Members from all the parties, the Minister pledged that next week he would meet with the trade unions as well as the concessionaires and propose the creation of some discount packages for these drivers so that we do not have an increase in traffic costs. In its location, the Minister said that only 9% of road accidents occur on national networks, while 91% of accidents occur on provincial networks. We therefore agree that all vehicles, including lorries over three and a half tonnes, are moving safer on the national road network. And I think that those of us from the region are well aware of that. But I think that some parameters need to be defined so that we do not have any other kind of problems. For example, we need to discuss whether the ban on the holidays and weekends of truck traffic will be lifted, otherwise there will be a matter of transport on a weekly basis. Transit through the road network of trucks over three and a half tonnes must be addressed, with a view to loading products, materials and machinery. The Minister promised to take care of all this. It should be ensured that lorries over three and a half tonnes, due to size, also pass through the national road tunnels. And we need to see whether - what we said at the outset - there is a possibility of reducing tolls. In any case, we agree on security. But here, I would just like to mention what is happening in the European Union. In France there is a general ban on lorries of more than seven and a half tonnes, with the exception of special vehicles, agricultural vehicles and equipment on the provincial network. The general ban also applies to more than seven and a half tons of trucks and trailers on the provincial network. The same is happening in Italy. Our proposal, therefore, is to consider whether we will be able to align ourselves with the European directives, with practical practices that will actually resolve practical issues, on which road network, where, when, the traffic of these trucks is allowed. Now we're going to Article 29. What we understand by reading Article 29 is that a nine-member committee will be set up to draw up a draft proposal for the adoption of a Presidential Decree regulating the profession of engineer, setting out professional rights for each specialty, detailed listing and matching, on a case-by-case basis, the specialisation of engineering activities on the basis of paid professional rights, and the procedure for exercising them. But there is, as we all know, a big issue here. For example, we all know here that architects are whining because they do not sign topographically, while politicians can sign and sign. Political engineers on the other hand do topography and architecture. They, however, have complaints because they cannot sign architectural studies in traditional settlements. The topographers and they have complaints because they don't want anyone else to sign topographically except them. So there are issues and there are many interests. Because what is currently in force is a law since 1930 on substance, n.4663, I think we all agree that it should be updated. But in what direction? And here we want a clear answer from the government who will do what, who will keep his rights, who will lose his rights. It is therefore a good thing that this whole framework should be reviewed. Besides, we all know that after years science does not stand still and needs are different. But this should be done with very close attention and with scientific, social and professional criteria, especially now that the profession of engineer is perhaps going through the biggest crisis and hundreds, as we all know, engineers from the TEI are being erased and migrating, like other young people, abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, for a minute I would like the floor on staff to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u53	Is there any staff, Mr. Spartin?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Karamanlis said something about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u55	Here, you have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Karamanlis gave me intentions I didn't have. I hope he didn't do it consciously. He said that I should not have every colleague and, in particular, the parliamentary representatives should have the right to comment and that we want to squeeze them or something. There is no such problem on our part and there is no intention. When such matters are raised so differently from the subject of the bill, we think that we have a right and an obligation to comment on them, so that the dialogue that these colleagues have opened up can go ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. However, you know that it is usually time for colleagues to leave, and for them to be a little more relaxed. The misunderstanding is resolved. Mr Shahinides from Golden Dawn has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. I believe that very much because the articles were not and we have mentioned most of them. I would simply like to add something about the provisions relating to the supply of alternative fuel means. I would like to mention that the gas infrastructure projects that have been implemented in recent years have laid the foundations for our country's transformation into a Eastern Mediterranean energy hub. As regards the energy supply and the creation of a regional gas market in Greece and south-eastern Europe, the ports of Thessaloniki, Kavala and Alexandroupolis can play a key role, especially if they exploit the Russians' expressed intention to install a floating gas storage tank LPG and LNG. We were also placed yesterday in Article 29, which deals with the arrangements for the profession of engineer, and we told you that, in essence, instead of unlocking, it locks too many professions. As has been said many times in the House and in the committees, political engineers of the TEE will not be entitled. We forgot, of course, to mention yesterday and the topographers, graduates of the TEEs. Finally, we cannot accept the curiosity of your legislation, which we have mentioned, beyond some fragmentary provisions. If we look at the Report of the General Accountancy Office of the State - we have mentioned it in committee too - we will see that no expenditure on the state budget is identified, due to a lack of data. I was impressed - and no one mentioned it - what we received in the parliamentary e-mail. I think you've all received a complaint. Mr. Minister isn't here to ask him. The complaint is Mr. Theodoros Delagramatika. He declares he's a political engineer and has knowledge of the subject. Yesterday we heard the Minister's position that he did not consider it appropriate to make a reference to the decompression components and the safety systems of the tanks. I make this specific complaint in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the minutes the complaint referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The complaint is a last name. It shall indicate up to its identity card number and number. I will read to you some points which I think are very serious and I will ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to see them from the Minutes. It says, therefore, that ‘It is a fraudulent legislature to circumvent the existing Union and national legislation on environmental protection and prevention of explosions and fires in liquid and gaseous stations, for reasons I will develop below’. In fact, he declares his quality that he is an engineer of the TEI and that he had sent out-of-courts in September 2013 to Mr. Hatzidakis. It was also in a committee in 2014, for an opinion - a response together with four others. It also states that the dynamics of pressure growth due to gasoline vaporisation vapours, according to rate and science, are not curtailed. I went to the trouble of looking online who this gentleman is and from what I read, he is natural, specializing in decompressing gases and even considered one of the best in his kind, because on his theories he was based up to the seismologists for the gases collected from lava. So he's talking documentarily. I read it exactly as he has written it to you: 'Mr Hatzidakis, Mr Hatzidakis and the relevant economic and criminal group, which I have already denounced in a proper manner, has legislated the system of allegedly measuring incoming and outgoing quantities of liquid fuels in the stations' tanks, for the suppression of allegedly smuggling, fraud and theft of consumers. The group of facilities of the Ministry of Transport participated in the design, recording and enforcement of the requirements of the technical specifications of the system of input-output. It writes down some technical features that they should have. Below it has noted: "They have imposed obligations on the way in which liquid fuels, oil-gases, gasoline tanks under the atmospheric pressure treaty are stored. They did so consciously, to legitimize the implementation of the colpo grosso project of 150-200 million." This is where the Minister is called, if he is lying, to make a statement or sue him. Its text is signed, and at the end it says: 'because they are pressed by the need to legislate in order not to close the stations below overheads, they are relegating the obligation to place a vapourification valve on the petrol tanks, which had been abolished to operate under atmospheric pressure conditions. In the case of a legal act of 35 mbar, i.e. almost zero pressure, because of the free ventilation of vapours and the spread of these vapours into the environment, the following will happen. Firstly, it will continue to pollute the atmosphere, as is the case now. Secondly, there will continue, as will now, to be the risk of explosion and fire disasters at the expense of the already three hundred thousand citizens - users of the over one thousand six hundred stations, whose continued operation is proposed for an indefinite period. And thirdly, we will add to the existing danger and many thousands of new users of overheads and even to an unlimited number of new stations, as proposed.' It closes: "The use of this instrument in a tank with a treaty of any pressure anyway constitutes a crime and because a crime characterises the whole situation as I described it, please act legally to restore legality and inform me accordingly". We'd like a placement of the minister. As regards the position of the SYRIZA rapporteur, he did admit that only the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy and Democratic Alliance raised yesterday the issues that were irrelevant to this draft law. Contrary to us, our Parliamentary representative was placed on a point of order only, and I in my speech, in the fifteen minutes I had - and I was abusing myself the time and went to the seventeen-and-a-half minutes - I dealt only with the draft law, like our speaker and competitor Elias Panagiotaros, who also dealt with the draft law. I'd like the Minister to be here to ask him if he has any allergies, because he's probably scratching in the slut. What did he do in his speech? He referred again to nationalism. For us it is an honor to be called nationalists. It's a great honor. I simply think that the Minister has done so, because he now has every right as a third party to refer to the second party. In fact, he said: I say this because some are playing very nationalists and through the criticism they are making, I would like them to see what nationalism they are talking about at the audience they are addressing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. And he mentioned that in what has to do with the side roads. We ask this. If this is the case - of course we do not want heavy vehicles to run over three and a half tons - but it is something that the state should have foreseen. It is certainly a huge fee for drivers to pay for tolls. We as Golden Dawn had made a proposal for the reopening of MOMA to get the big-time workers out of the way so that the Greek citizen can be released freely, as provided for in the Greek Constitution. And to conclude, if we want to reduce Greece's dependence on conventional fuels, then we must make immediate use of the domestic sources, as we have repeatedly mentioned, of hydrocarbons and use of the appropriate means and scientific resources that we possess as a country, to achieve the best results, for the benefit of the environment, the best results and the best results of our country. We can oppose energy poverty affecting energy weak Europe and, at the same time, emerge as a key pillar of energy supply. We are positive as Golden Dawn against any action, but it is intended to protect the environment, but under conditions and only if it is not a sign of bad news and new measures. Thus, even when a draft law has some positive provisions, unfortunately, we are often in a difficult position, because you are bringing last minute amendments and legislation is not what really deserves the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and students and two educational sessions from the Royal High School of Evia. Welcome, guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after participating in the educational program "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the 57th Athens Municipal School. Also welcome, boys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Mr Ioannis Maniotis has the floor from the Democratic Independence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, only as a bad joke could I consider the comment made by Mr SYRIZA, that it is not useful, appropriate, ethically right to talk about the news when we take the floor from the Step of the House. I would just like to remind you that, in turn, and always the representatives of SYRIZA to the opposition only did this thing: they were talking about anything other than the bill we were discussing. As a result, any attempt to suffocate within Parliament falls into the void. Because, therefore, I am a fan of Members' ability to comment on topicality, I will begin exactly with it. Yesterday a document was published, a report - confronted by the European Union in relation to the quality of Greek education, another tragic result of SYRIZA's policy in the most important area of public life, which is education, education, an object, an issue that deeply affects not only the actions we are discussing here today, but also affects the future of our country. What did this report say? That in the last two years, with the suspension of evaluation, by degrading the role of the boards of higher education institutions, in the bad way that has been handled by universities, we still have another backwardness in the level of education. We have another retreat, because obviously it is not just that excellence is retreat, but the worst of all is that it always works to bring society and the new generation to the logic of the average and, if possible, even under the average, far below where the ambitions of young people are. I will proceed deliberately with the news. Mr. Secretary, I want you to inform the Minister, because I want you to answer what I'm going to comment on. Yesterday I asked the Minister to inform him that it was on the front page of "KATHMERINI", which told the Minister that he had serious political responsibility for the fact that the road station, the old train station of ETHEL, has not been transferred from the Greek airport, and that this should have already been done. The Minister replied extensively that all these issues are related to the responsibilities of the private investor. I, on the occasion of this debate, would like the Minister or the Ministry to answer the specific question I raise again with very specific questions: First, in the summer of 2014 with the new Athens-Attica Regulatory Plan, thirty years after the Tritsis Act, we have set a framework for integrated holistic, sustainable and circular development of the Attica basin. This bill was voted against by SYRIZA. In there, however, we provided for this regulation which would enable the great investment of the Greek airport to be carried out, without anyone being able to challenge this decision to the Council of State. In other words, we have incorporated this important international scope and metropolitan importance for the Attiki landscape of the Lefkanopedi in an overall, integrated regulation of the area of the Lefkanope, so that all projects and actions for the Greek area are fully integrated in this direction. Therefore, we have overcome the big issue that some would probably put, the issue of unconstitutionality in relation to this great regulation. In November 2014, the contract between TIADED and "ELLENIKI SA" was signed and the government wanted - a right and we had some positive results - to amend the contract with "ELLENIKI SA" and September of this year, after about two years, signed and ratified the new amended contract for the Greek airport. It's n.4422/2016. What's in there, Minister? There it provides that on November 14, 2016 – ten days ago – the area of Greek will have been delivered to "ELLINIKI SA" clean in order to begin the development projects of the Greek airport. We are talking about a billion-dollar investment, which will bring tens of thousands of jobs to the Lefkada - is estimated at up to seventy thousand - and hundreds of millions as revenue in the public funds. Question: Has the Minister, Mr. Spirtzis, who signed Law 4422/2016, signed a memorandum of understanding with "ELLENIKI S.A." and TEAD to make this transfer, that is, the OSH train station have been transferred three days before the area was delivered to the private contractor? When should the land have been delivered? Done at Brussels, 14 November 2016. Consequently, when should the road station have been removed? This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Has he been removed? Oh, no. And let us say that we are going through this and that there can be a reasonable delay of one, two, three, four months. In order to make this relocation, it is certain that preparations are needed for too many months. The question is top: Is there an area? Is there a mechanism looking for the area? Are there funds to buy the area? Has there been a plan for a new area plant? Is there any money to create the new facilities where the new train is to be transferred? I say these, ladies and gentlemen, because in Greek today the four hundred buses of ETHEL, the Road Transport, and the eight hundred workers occupy an eighty acres, and every day they make two thousand routes to serve the inhabitants of the south of Lecanopdi. When is all this going to be done so that there is no problem with the investment, but - as serious - or with the smooth movement of hundreds of thousands of citizens of Lefkanos who are transported by buses from the Greek train station? It is therefore very important that the government and the Minister responsible, because they are matters for Mr Spirtzi alone, should respond to that. Needless to say, of course, we had a public dialogue with the former Minister of Culture, Mr Balta, in the summer that passed us before the remodelling - on the issue of the proclamation of the Greek area as archaeological. And yes, a number of issues have been resolved - the Central Council of New Monuments - but the ministerial decision has not yet come out and we have further delays. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, with some remarks on a number of issues raised by this bill. Once again, we as a Democratic Integration, because we worked with our members in the Council of Ministers, we support the implementation of this directive. However, there are a number of comments which have also been made by the institutions: Firstly, the terminology that exists in several parts of the bill should be extended and included in the term 'liquid fuel storage and distribution facilities' and not as it now refers to specific issues. Secondly, it is the question of the professional rights of engineers to be dealt with by the committee or committees set up. I should like to ask the government to have some guidance on these presidential decrees, because it is not possible for committees to move to the air, without direction, on the basis of the legislative procedure. Of course, it is a good opportunity at last to resolve the huge issue that has been in existence for many years with the graduates of TEI and finally, in a way of holistic, integrated and cooperative, in a way that supports the country's development, to see how this whole Greek society will be solved. As far as the side network is concerned, I think it is good that the Minister made a commitment next week to pursue a policy of meeting with the relevant bodies involved in order to ensure that there are discounting policies in tolls, because that will really contribute. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that on our part, once again, we will support all the initiatives of the government that are heading towards the progressive reforms and the development of the country. We shall, however, vote against all our forces with all the anachronistic, darkening approaches which, unfortunately, as long as the weather is over, are growing in this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Maniotis. Mr Emmanuel Synthrakis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we tabled a comprehensive view of the JRC on the European Alternative Fuel Directive, which prepares the legislative framework for investment operations, the development and specialisation of a national framework for alternative fuels policy, and it will have as its main aim - as the Minister said yesterday - to ensure incentives for business groups in fuel and transport, while preparing for more dynamic business activities in biofuels. So, in this line, all the remaining parties in the Euromonstrate are also in favour of this European directive and the draft law as a whole. As you can see, the JRC is not only in agreement, but it will vote against Articles 1 to 13 concerning the European directive. Article 12, which we are also voting against, concerns the licenses of motor vehicle repairers - you oblige them to obtain a separate extra licence for the carrying out of motor maintenance and repair activities of motor vehicles, which concern a number of fuels - and the training conditions for it to be acquired. The corresponding standards for automotive workshops themselves are also strict. What are the consequences? You generalise the certifications, divide the professional rights, impose the qualifications, training and the corresponding vocational training centres. This makes it easier to concentrate on the sector with the extra costs of infrastructure and training imposed on small workshops. The difficulty of meeting the requirements is practically pushing the weakest to lose access to this market segment. Our position is that the degrees of existing technical schools can provide the necessary qualifications, regardless of the type of cars. Of course, the necessary training must be provided by the State free of charge or against a symbolic amount and any business activity in the field of training should be abolished. In relation to the provisions of Chapter II and Chapter III, I would say that the OECD requirements are being met here too - which is also acknowledged in the explanatory statement - on the pretext of the environment. With regard to Articles 14 to 27, which relate to the simplification of procedures for granting and changing permits for stations, we have disagreements. We are, however, clear that our disagreement is not about simplifying the licensing procedure. There, we agree. However, we disagree here: in the pretext of simplification, you are transferring control powers to individuals. The arguments are not correct that we have bureaucracy and delays with the state. Well, then, remove bureaucracy and delays. A public body, which works for the benefit of the people's interests, can solve such problems. Of course, the issue is which state, which authority can serve these needs. However, the urban governments, the urban state, are interested in large-capital investment in the sector - and not just - and not just micro-enterprises. After all, this is the OECD guidelines, that is to say, speeding up and reducing investment costs with a view to mono-saleping the market. You realise that we do not agree with these two chapters and we are voting against Articles 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 20, which abolish important documents. The legislative improvements also change the nature of the draft law, i.e. the substance of these articles. As you say, if the period of thirty working days elapsed without the licensee approving or rejecting the request, the person concerned shall be deemed to have established the agency’s business law. Well, we do not agree with this process. We have no objections to the provisions of certain articles, such as 19, 21, 22, 23 and 24, while we are voting 'present' in Articles 25, 26 and 27. Under Article 28 - IV, Chapter - which prohibits the use of national road roads by lorries - it is necessary to prohibit the use of this road network by lorries of more than 3.5 tonnes - which includes motor vehicles of self-employed persons, as well as small public lorries of use, as well as we do not agree. There was a lot of talk yesterday. In fact, the Minister referred particularly to the dangers that exist. And there are others. However, the question is: Who is affected by this measure? The big companies, Greek or foreign, or the self-employed, the small public lorries? So here's how the small are displaced to concentrate the industry on a few hands. The question is why self-employed people and public lorries drivers resort to the side streets. It is precisely because there are the exterior and parallel tolls that you and the previous governments have imposed on the national arteries as a result of their privatisation. Because it is your governments who have sharply increased transport costs, especially the smallest professionals in the sector. And what do you propose as a solution? Prohibitions and fines. If you really wanted to solve the problem and no one would be in danger, nor the truck drivers, nor the citizens, would you take the toll and we would have a safe public road. But you don't. That is why we are voting against. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Under Article 29, the Government brings provisions which are irrelevant to the content and philosophy of the draft law concerning the professional rights of civil engineers, architects and topographers, without enabling substantial dialogue and discussion with stakeholders. In other words, it follows the practice of surprise, precisely because it escalates the attack on the rights of these workers. This provision perpetuates the two speed mechanics status on the same subject, so that graduates of ATEIs, as well as colleges, foreign bachelors, etc., will be used as a fragmentation and leveling legend to the bottom of the working conditions of both diplomats and diplomats. Recognition of three-year foreign student colleges is promoted as equal to home school in the context of the application of Directive 36/2006 of the European Union. You are fragmenting the scientific cognitive objects by introducing fields of knowledge, thus opening the way for multiple cognitive objects of the various schools, which will be matched by multiple sub-skills. Their recognition as basic qualifications is not accompanied by the patenting of professional rights for all. On the contrary, all this will enter the general pot of presidential decrees, which will share fragmented rights through certifications, examinations, etc. Faced with this current problem of new skills, it is another pretext for the government to speed up the law on the liberalisation of the profession. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some time, Mr President, and thank you. With the new legislative improvement in Article 29 it is introduced - and it is revealing - that the provisions are based on respect for the principle of professional freedom under Law 3919/2011. So it is revealing why the government intends to bring this particular provision. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the JRC believes that the way out for the working class and the self-employed, scientists, poor people's strata must be found in the reverse of the fraudulent proposal for the green economy, energy security, the liberalisation of professions, so-called fair growth, which the government tells us, with Greece, the protagonist of developments, and, more generally, the unregulated capitalist development that gives rise to the economic crisis and destroys the environment. In our opinion, the solution lies in the central planning of economic life with the aim of satisfying all the people's needs, including the protection of the environment and public health, the use of natural gas energy reserves for substantial earthquake shielding and flood protection, to meet all the needs of the working class and poor people's strata. No more delusional. After all, the answer to the people's problems is not green capitalism, but socialism, but at the same time, Mr. SYRIZA's representative, and today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Synonymous, you're clear. Put a perfect one on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u64	We have tabled several proposals for legislation to relieve people's families, for unemployment, for the reintroduction of basic wages. You haven't accepted them. You have not brought them to plenary. You refer their solution to the "Monday Presence", while we give the battle today to regain the losses of workers, but to understand that their perspective is socialism. Finally, the amendment we have tabled, Mr President, is to be accepted. It concerns workers in ‘Active Infrastructures S.A.’. There is no reason why this amendment should not be voted in favour. We would like Members to say in particular whether they accept it. And we would like the Minister to tell us if he accepts it. As far as I know, in front of the workers themselves, this amendment is a good one and will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u65	Good. The Minister will be placed in due time. Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have exhausted the issue of the draft law - the incorporation of the European Alternative Fuel Directive - at previous meetings. I am going to stand by three articles, for which a lot of talk has been made. Article 25 applies to ground-freight stations. Here the standards are strict. We believe that the control mechanisms should give an answer as to whether or not this scheme should continue, after seventeen years already in force. We cannot say 'no' in this article because it will close a thousand seven hundred stations. One of the prisoners. Secondly, we urge the government and the public administration to develop a strong activity in the control of the safety standards of these existing liquid fuel stations. Article 28 applies to prohibiting the use of the side road network by large vehicles and machinery. We're positive. Safety, of course, urge that all these large and heavy vehicles be kept off the side, the poorly maintained, the old safety standards, and that they move, like all professionally, along the high roads - nationally or otherwise - regardless of whether there are tolls or not. What do we do? From destroying the side roads and complaining to the inhabitants of the large roads is a solution that we prefer. Article 29 concerns engineers. This is a step. Some specialties were behind. They were excluded from the sector and the workplace. However, we must also point out that this article includes a number of procedural, more specific and more general arrangements than principles and guidelines. We would also tell you to look at the professional profiles, as described in the International Code of ILO Professions, which is internationally recognised in Greece, as well as fully accepted. In addition, we believe that the definition of regulated activities, as provided for in the relevant European directives, is required. Finally, we are giving this idea - there could be a permanent committee which, with the appropriate composition, would deal with issues relating to the exercise of the profession of higher education engineer, either from TEI or from universities, depending on the technical hierarchy. To conclude: I have heard Mr. Maniotis and from him I take all for the Greek and for the investment and transport of the train station. I would like to report to you, Mr Maniotis, a new development. The development is that this is now developing a two-cylinda between "ELLENIC S.A.", representing, I would say, the Greek state in investment, and the investor on the occasion, Mr. Minister, the proclamation of new areas as forests. In fact, my information says that it is attempting to declare a planting planted tree planted after 1950 as a forest - that is, it is not a forest which is self-sacrificing - between the runway from land to the beach. So we realise that there are many obstacles. And I would say that we need to look into this to see whether or not this investment will go ahead and how. I'm afraid I'm entitled to my location for the Greek. When the ratification of the contract was here, I said that I feared that the Greek office could not withstand and manage the volume of town and other interventions to be made. I hear here, in fact, that some arbitrary buildings must be demolished there. Even these are stuck, while they are arbitrarily recognized with the law's booze. So we urge Mr. Spirtzi to deal with this as well, in addition to the transport station and forestry, which is or is not. In any case, we want some answers so that we know whether or not the investment will go ahead. I am not in a more profound debate because there is already a correspondence between Lamda and the Greek State, but at the moment I am not touching it. I expect to see how the government reacts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u67	We thank you for managing time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u68	Can I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u69	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u70	Although it is not my responsibility to say a few things, perhaps some colleagues - and fellow Members and colleagues - do not remember a few things about the procedure. The first is that the investor today has to testify to the master plan and the environmental study, in order to approve the presidential decree...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u71	The environmental study is not submitted by the investor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u72	The investor. The master plan on Greek and environmental issues is submitted by the investor, approved...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u73	After he's given.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u74	And then the presidential decree is issued. I said yesterday that whatever delays exist, it's not because of us. It's not because of us! And it is not the only investment that has proceeded with the procedures of the previous government, which investors themselves are coming and delaying the implementation of these privatisations. I would say, therefore, to answer the questions about the train station as well: I have asked that - and I will table it shortly - the agreement that has been made on when the train has to leave. The train mustn't leave now. So you see that there is no hindrance from us. In order to ensure the public interest, it will be good to look for where there are genuine responsibilities. And where there really are responsibilities, it's not from this side of the hill. It's one of those people who set these conditions for this contest and made it then and it's also in the investor. Secondly, there are different - and I know not only in Greek, but throughout Greece - such gray zones for what is forest, what is not, etc. I hope that this is not the case, when neither the spatial planning nor the log has been completed since 1821.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u75	Thank you. Mr. Lazarides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Maniatis, move the process forward. Mr. Amyras was absolutely specific and managed the time. I must point out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u78	We'll have a second. If you don't want to talk for just a minute, we'll take more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u79	We're not making a time-out now. Here, Mr Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. I, Mr President, cannot leave today's question from the New Democracy, Mr Nikita Kaklamanis, who has asked a question today and has provided revealing evidence of the falsification of the facts in order to get to the memorials with the painful results. I would like to mention the information he submitted this morning in this Chamber, Mr Kaklamanis. He said that for the period of Simitis, where people made sure that the deficit would appear under 3.5%, in order to enter the Eurozone, the deficit - with elements of the Bank of Greece as tabled by Mr Kaklamanis - was not only less than 3.5%, but was 5.8%. In 2004, when Simitis lost the election and took over Kostas Karamanlis, the deficit had reached 6.5% to 7%, while, respectively - always with elements of the Bank of Greece - in the period 2004 to 2009, the deficit was reduced, despite the fact that Simitis had committed the next government - that is, the government of Kostas Karamanlis - with excessive defensive expenditure exceeding 84 billion and we were fifth to the armaments expenditure. I am therefore still waiting - as I have asked for the last three times I have spoken on this issue, namely that this period should be illuminated - by colleagues from the New Democracy to be placed on it. Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft law, Directive 2014/94 on the development of alternative fuel infrastructures is incorporated into Greek law and related provisions of national legislation are amended. Over the past few days we have discussed measures for the development of alternative fuel infrastructure, in application of European legislation, for the redefinition of the licensing process for power and power plants, as well as other issues. We very much welcome the efforts of the relevant ministry to adopt Members' proposals and positions, moving towards better changes in articles. We therefore have a bill supported by all the bodies, as is apparent from their positions in the hearing last days. In addition, the integration of the institutional framework is expected to give a new impetus to the market for alternative fuels, as it will facilitate the process of authorisation and operation of service stations and will generally encourage investment in this sector. It is the Greek Government's obligation to establish a national policy framework for the development of the entire grid required to promote alternative fuel forms, namely LPG, compressed natural gas CNG, LNG liquefied natural gas and electricity, which relate to infrastructures up to conversions to engines, engines and infrastructures that need to be made within a specific timeframe. We also noted yesterday that the importance of liquefied natural gas as a fuel for shipping in the near future, under specific conditions, can be one of the most appropriate solutions for shipping. For example, with regard to LNG, a sufficient number of refuelling units should be provided in ports for the operation of ships by 31-12-2025. The whole programme should be completed by 2030. From the use of LNG there may be benefits for shipping companies because of the cheapest fuel. The transition should be ensured in such a way that it does not affect the competitiveness of the sea transport instrument or shipping undertakings when building new vessels or converting existing vessels and ports. The new regulations provide inter alia: automatic authorisation of the offices after the deadlines have expired, monitoring by the register of operators the validity of their certificates of operation, a reduction from six to five months in the adoption of a Presidential Decree on the professional rights of engineers. Furthermore, in accordance with the provisions of the draft law, the lending of fuel stations in terms of time and procedure is simplified and strict disciplinary penalties are laid down for those who do not respond to their work. Chapter I defines the minimum standards for the creation of infrastructure, including the rechargeable electrical vehicles and the refuelling points for LNG and CNG gas and hydrogen. In addition, the technical specifications for the reloading and refuelling points and the specifications for how to inform users are to be made (Article 1). It is envisaged that other Member States should be able to consult each other with a view to coordinating and coordinating the measures referred to above. In any case, the provisions of European legislation on State aid rules and on the environment and its protection must be complied with (Article 3). Measures to supply electricity, hydrogen and natural gas to transport shall be specified and the corresponding timetables for the existence of a sufficient number of points of refuelling, refuelling and implementation of the individual commitments shall be set at the end of 2020 or 2025 or 2030 as appropriate (Article 4). Furthermore, in the existing provisions of that Article, the framework is defined under which public accessible rechargeable points managers buy electricity. Managers shall provide the rechargering services of electric vehicles, on the basis of a contract with customers or on the basis of ad hoc charges, as specified in particular, and it is necessary for the State to inform users of alternative fuel infrastructure, on the basis of European and national standards (Article 7). Then we see an amendment to Article 10, as with a new regulation of this bill at the power stations, they will also include those which have, among other things, liquefied natural gas LNG, as well as another measure of course aimed at the future development of this market. It is Chapter B that, through its regulations, promotes the simplification of the licensing of liquid fuel stations and the acceleration of all relevant procedures, while applying the OECD's pending recommendations on the environment and fuel marketing authorisations. In other words, the authorisation procedure for the establishment and change of a licence holder for the LPG, LPG or mixed station is redefined and the relevant misunderstandings are updated. In particular, Article 14 provides that for the suitability of a plot or plot location relating to the establishment of these stations a private engineering designer will henceforth be submitted, instead of an autopsy designer, to be carried out with the existing scheme, and for the decision to approve a node connection of the non-oil-project stations or the authorisation to subtract the pedestrian level.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u81	Complete, Mr Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u82	In closing my position, I cannot refer to the provisions of Article 29, where the conditions for the exercise of the profession of diplomat engineer are redefined and the specialties to which the members of the Technical Chamber of Greece (TEC) are integrated are extended. The overall regulation of the profession of engineer will now relate to the whole of all thirteen specialties in order to make a uniform regulation of the profession of engineer, contrary to the original regulation, which applies only to the three basic specialities, namely civil engineering, architect and engineer topographer. Professional rights of basic skills are not clear and frictions are created between engineers. Because there is a problem of harmonisation, we think TEE is rightly defined as the vehicle of the whole technical world, to testify to professional rights according to study and experience, thereby ensuring merit. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, given the global shift in alternative fuels, our country must move quickly in order to activate directly and indirectly involved sectors, by stressing the divergence in the energy, industry and automobile industry. We support this draft law, which only benefits and positive elements can give our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, European Directive 94/2014 is a realistic directive. By serving the strong political will among the peoples of Europe for an energy shift towards electricity, hydrogen and natural gas, it is realistically setting out the conditions to achieve a reduction in the dependence of our economy on oil and fossil fuels. In order to synchronise ourselves with other European peoples in the joint effort to tackle climate change, we must develop an efficient network of infrastructures and facilities capable of meeting the energy needs of the citizens with alternative fuels and technically and practically supporting the choice of our fellow citizens to turn to them. For our country this effort is now moving one step further. On the basis of the necessary harmonisation of Greek legislation, we are opening up the way to attracting energy investments, which will surely be strengthened worldwide, following the expressed preference of the market in alternative fuel engines. For example, we can already talk about an energy shift in global shipping, also based on increased orders to build new ships that will now only use alternative fuels. Greece has a lot to gain by following this road, the road to alternative fuels. Article 9 of the first chapter of the draft law incorporates Annex 1 to Directive 94 into Greek legislation and in this context provides for the possibility that the Government may give some incentive to strengthen the choice of citizens and companies to switch to alternative fuels. The government must immediately find a way to exploit this provision. Perhaps after the second assessment has been completed, Minister, you can find a way and manage to specify what is stated in Annex 1 to Article 9. Regarding Chapter II of the draft law and the attempt to simplify the licensing procedures for stations, I have to comment that its success will be judged to a large extent by the effective functioning of the digital office register provided for in Article 21. Many of the points made by the Vice-Presidents and the committees involved have been respected. The red tape may be a blow today. However, much will be judged by the correct application of these provisions. It's hard, but we have to try as a country. Chapter III and Articles 22 to 27 deal with very serious technical issues - we said this yesterday - mainly concerning the safe operation of agencies for workers and citizens. The update of the procedure for venting the fuel tanks provided for in Article 22, the authorisation of stations in groundhouses, Article 25, but also the reduction of the safety distances referred to in Article 27, is very problematic. The people of the apartments who on the ground have a fuel station don't feel very quiet and I don't think, unfortunately, that the authority of our political system is enough to convince them that what we legislate is for their own good. In my town, Thessaloniki there are many of my fellow citizens who are making an honest effort to rely on reasonable arguments, scientific evidence and to show confidence that the first person who does not want to happen the evil is the owner of the agency and the workers who work in it themselves. But you can't get them out of their minds that sleeping over a tank of fuel also involves some degree of danger. We will be present in monitoring the implementation of the relevant provisions, and of course we will exercise our right and obligation to proceed to parliamentary scrutiny whenever we consider this to be the case. With the footnote that the draft law before us follows it well, and with the cooperation of the vast majority of the bodies, the provisions of the first three chapters emerged. However, I move on to the fourth and last chapters, which have two very important articles. One is to regulate the profession of engineers and to ban the crossing of heavy commercial vehicles from the side road network. It is true and I repeat that we are positive and will support the Minister's efforts to move forward with the long-awaited regulation. As far as the profession of engineers is concerned, we will monitor closely and carefully the work that will be done by the committee drawing up the draft Presidential Decree referred to in Article 29, and we will intervene with proposals and solutions, where we can and do so. In dealing with our position on Article 28, I do not hide that we have been negative. But after the Minister's position, who said that in the next few weeks he will be in contact with the relevant bodies to discuss the prospects for a discount on tolls, we will change our attitude towards this article. We will find together solutions to this matter and we will strengthen the position of the Minister in our own views. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, you have deprived me of a minute as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u85	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u86	So everyone agrees - first and foremost, transport professionals themselves - that this situation is clearly and is dangerous and that it must be changed. But the problem is also of an economic nature. It's not just environmentally speaking, it's not just safety. It's also economic. Greek drivers choose from need for side roads - that should be recognised. Their foreign colleagues do the same because they know that there is no corresponding control. Clearly there are too many accidents, Minister. Yesterday you described it to us. But of all these accidents, it's not all due to transporters. There are also accidents due to other people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So it is a complex phenomenon. It's a key security issue. We urge the government to find a solution to tolls and reduce transport costs for professionals. Finally, I would like to make a very important comment on the issue of engineering technology. It will be dealt with in total for all graduates of TEIs. This is the government's commitment. That's what you said, Minister. And this commitment of the government we in the Centroon Union are keeping it. We are anxiously waiting for us and all the graduates of the technological institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, too. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, before I place myself in the bill, I would like to raise a point that we and Mr Synthrakis have raised with timely questions, which is currently on the agenda in Heraklion. With L.4412/2016, a transitional period has been foreseen until July 30th, but a diagnosity has emerged between Heraklion Municipality and the managing authority as to whether it can make the auction of the second phase of the Captain. It is an issue that you need to see, if you can today, for this tender to proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u89	I'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u90	I told you that we have asked it with timely questions. The tender documents are ready without you having issued the standards and sent to the managing authority. Unless it can't be done, so speed up the adoption of the implementing and regulatory acts to work out the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Kegeroglu, it can be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u92	Once it is possible, we need a direction towards the managing authority in order to give this auction permission for a very important project that is already part of the ESDP.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u93	He's going to support the Ministry...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u94	The bill we are discussing is, of course, about the licensing of power stations by introducing alternative fuels beyond traditional ones. But this is also a question of strategic energy planning for the country, for which the government is not talking about. It is limited to individual incorporations of directives as bricks and horns of articulated nature, but has no strategy. After all, this is also the big government's overall political deficit, which, two years ago, has frozen all the issues that could create conditions for getting out of the crisis for economic recovery and productive reconstruction. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government and Mr Tsipras personally have been on the triple of evaluations with the prior mandate and assurance that we will be done on 5 December. This means that the ministers - and so I take it - will not negotiate on the substance. They will even sign without tears this time, after they have no more tears, even crocodiles. Ladies and gentlemen, any debt settlement, even the best we are seeking, cannot be a solution to the problem of recession if Greece does not have a national strategy with a development and productive plan. Let that be clear. The government is practicing foreign policy and all the things that are happening around us, in our region more widely, without any plan for how to move. It's extremely dangerous what's going on. While the country has long gone away with the sacrifices of the Greek people by the contributors to the budget deficits, it is obvious that it has been among the contributors to the government's political deficit, which society pays with more and more measures. National energy planning should become a priority. Integration of natural gas as a fuel for transport, gasification, only benefits. Economics for owners of vehicles and also for the national economy, since it is the most economical fuel. However, it has benefits for the environment and for public health, since the composition of the exhaust gases emitted has low concentration on hazardous gases, such as carbon monoxide. So is the electromobility that is increasingly adopted by the automotive industry. Greece before the 2004 Olympic Games renewed the type of public transport buses by jet. Fourteen years later, we have to agree on strategic energy planning, on the energy mix and on the specifics we are debating now, on vehicles, to decide. Finally, from a date on which all state vehicles must be supplied only with gas or power-driven vehicles. Financing by the NSRP or by the development law or any programme should concern the supply or replacement of vehicles only gas or power-driven. Obviously the incorporation of the directive we have worked on since 2014 with the participation of Giannis Maniotis as Minister of the Environment, is positive and we are voting on it. But it's not good enough. If we do not escape the simple incorporation and agree on tomorrow, the country will continue to crawl with society to bleed more and more. I now come to an issue that was included in the bill, although irrelevant, by Mr Spirtzi, in the hope that this would convince engineers to vote for the SYRIZA-ANEL's resignation in the TEU elections. It concerns the professional rights of diplomat engineers. Of course, Mr. Spirtzis, who reacts by laughing, did not make it. You know that the SYRIZA party - ANEL was suppressed. But the questions remain. Each Ministry with corporation actions will determine the professional rights of sectors related to its subject matter or not related to it? So, after the Professional Rights Infrastructure of certain categories of engineers, can we expect that the Ministry of Agriculture will come to determine the rights of farmers and veterinarians? The Ministry of Finance, the economists? The Ministry of the Environment, Environment Engineering - why is it responsible - and the new Ministry of Digital Technology for computer engineers or the Ministry of Health to determine the rest? Is this possible in the year 2016? Not that they didn't exist in the past. They were, but the structure of governance and the system as a whole was different. You, of course, Mr. Spirtzi, do your job. The one you always do. I do not doubt you because it is well known that you are interested in this matter. But the Minister of Education, who signs the bill and at the same time promises different things to the presidents of the TEIs and of the Governors, that they will set up committees to grant professional rights to the 192 TEIs and Universities Departments, can he also sign it in this bill and, at the same time, lie to the presidents and to the masters? But the article is also written, Minister. He doesn't mention computer engineers. They do not exist and, from the shipwreck engineers - engineers, they only mention shipwrecks, as the name used to be. It's better to retire. But since I told the shipwreck engineers, let me tell you that the practice of legislating each ministry is not new. Here's what he's done now for shipwreck engineers - engineers the Ministry of Shipping. That's the homicide. It comes up and says "I put on the shipwreck mechanics - engineers, additional obstacles, to start the profession of mechanic ships". Why? Because he wants to serve the other side of the mechanic ships. So these obstacles cannot enter every ministry at a time and determine everything. This must be over. I propose that it should be withdrawn, without being against the way it says in it, with the dialogue committees and so on. To make it, but to adopt it, the Ministry of Education must be expedient and relate to all of the specialities, since, as you know, even to the artisans - the marble, let us say - the outline of the profession is responsible for the Ministry of Education, the EEA. It is the Ministry of Education which has responsibility for the Ministry responsible at all times. Obviously, for many specialties it is your Ministry of Agriculture, for others the Ministry of Agriculture, for others the Ministry of Health, for others the Ministry of Economy, for others the Ministry of Development. That is, I think, the rationale and good legalization, and that is what we need to follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, too. Mr. Carras has the floor for a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u96	For a while, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u97	So you said, I didn't say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u98	Then I'll talk for a while from my position. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u99	You said!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u100	So I'm reforming what I thought I'd say. I shall begin with the last one, which Mr Kegeroglu has put forward in relation to the professional rights of engineers. I would like to remind the House, Mr President, that, with a timely question, I had addressed the Ministry of Education on the professional rights of TEI engineers, which have never been designated, even though some twenty-fifths of the TEI sections have been operating for twenty-five years. I explained in my position, Minister, that I am not seeking to equate polytechnic engineers with TEI engineers. I understand the difference that exists, but I think there is a need to regulate the issues of these people as well, because there is not only confusion today, but also inability in times of crisis and unemployment to be absorbed by the market on the basis of their studies. So I remind you of this in the Chamber. It is an issue for which I have received a reply from the Ministry of Education that it is studying and awaiting presidential decrees, which will be issued by the Ministry of Education. It is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the issue I am referring to, it is a classic responsibility of the Ministry of Education, because it concerns the next stage after completing studies. There it can be evaluated what a person studied, what he can practice as a profession. A next point which I would like to make at the moment in relation to the bill is the following. As a general line, the energy market in Greece is a deficit. So what does that mean? It means that we are also looking for alternative sources of fuel to cover the deficit and, besides, we have a problem of pollutants. I have already referred to lignite combustion issues for the production of electricity, for which the country is forced to buy pollutant rights from the international platforms. We had discussed fuel issues days ago, and there is, in fact, a bill on the issues of the Securities and Markets Committee, which regulates energy markets, but there is no energy market in Greece in the end. I am coming back, therefore, and I say that it is useful to see the issues of alternative energy sources as well. My opinion is well known. The EIA and the alternative sources have not been achieved. We are calling years of efficiency, we are putting five-year programmes, we are constantly prolonging them, we have never concluded where we are. In any case, electricity generation is now energy-intensive, in the sense that a large proportion of lignite is consumed, but, moreover, even though it is renewable, water wealth and it needs rationalisation, because it often takes too much of the aqueduct of water wealth, and we do not achieve the desired result of such production. Finally, consumers are charged with the well-known fees, EMCDDAAR, pollutant charges, which are charged to the electricity accounts. These are unfamiliar charges because, for example, in an account where it is below half - I am not referring to municipal fees and taxes - the consumption of electricity, we add charges, in order to maintain the ability of the state-owned electricity company to operate. So I'm going to another topic, which I'm interested in. I have already seen an amendment from the Communist Party, on issues relating to UCLAF and ICU. I would ask the Minister to answer me if he will accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u101	I'll talk then and I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u102	Will you be able to accept it, in other words, to talk about it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u103	You should talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u104	Good, thanks. I would like to note this since I have the statement by the Minister. The amendment is necessarily a one-way path as it comes. Why is he coming as a one-way? For the reason that I am the one who objected to me and to the company 'CITIORIC INDUSTRIES', but there is a number of staff working there with the competitions, from what is said here, in 2000 and 2003, and today we are bringing him to unemployment, and we are bringing him to extermination. I, too, propose to my colleague Mr Saridis that we vote in favour of the amendment. But I would like to point out this. There is a great deal of unemployment in Greece and indeed in young people, unemployment may reach 50%, and because these people are young and worthwhile and migrate, we are living another form of immigration. We are now exporting migrants and a high level of education, which I will make a further observation: we all wish to come to development. If it is time for growth, Mr President, will we have the necessary scientific, staffing potential to support this development, or will it have migrated and created professional, family conditions that are irreversible and then we will be forced, while the country has spent and invested in the education of these young people, to bring from elsewhere, additional immigrants, scientists? These are very serious issues. I will return to the amendment and note. Yes, where there are empty organic positions to transfer. But this is the last time, Mr President. Find other solutions. We do not want to lead anyone to unemployment, but to find other solutions to create individual positions. It says, therefore, "They include by way of derogation", I accept, we will not make an assessment, we will do nothing, "in vacant organic positions of the company "KITIAN INDUSTRIES S.A.", - it is right to meet the needs of the "CITIAN INFRASTRUCTIONS", "or in personal positions that will be recommended to that company for this purpose". In this respect, I would ask - and I will be persistent - that it should not be repeated. Let's take care of it, but let's go to another body, Mr. President. Let us seek empty organic positions from another body. Because that's how we do it now? We make "CITIZENS S.A." - I don't know if the number is too large, I haven't heard what the number will be transferred - once more problematic and we'll be here looking for ways to settle these positions and we won't be able to do so. It's not just that we want to take care of these people today. Then, Minister, we will not be able to do so - and I am sure of that - if it goes over-the-counter staff in personal positions. I would like to ask you to seek to cover organic sites so that the needs can be met. Personal positions - and I shall end with that, Mr President - have no work. I do not want to talk about people who will understand them, but, when we talk about personal positions, they are overnumbers and they have no work. With these thoughts, I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the High School of Amphissas (first Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Parliamentary Representative of the River Mr Spyridon Dannelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a parliamentary representative, I would like to refer to a few issues very briefly, which are awkward with the draft legislation under discussion. Before that, however, Mr Minister, I will add my own voice to those of my fellow Members Syntagakis and Kegeroglou, for the absolute necessity of decommissioning the issue of the completion of the work in Cape Verde in Heraklion, which has been going on for eight years. It is a pity to miss this opportunity after the project has been incorporated into the ESDP. Let this case get out of hand. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been warning at an unsuspecting time, very early on, because we saw it coming: the contradictions, the disquieting, the refusal of the incumbent ministers to implement the contractual commitments, but also government planning, when they were bailing out publicly with the then president of the TIAD, who was trying to implement this programming. Result? Two billion euros is the divergence from this year's privatization objective. While 2.5 billion had been budgeted, after many labors and sufferings we gathered only about 500 million. How will this discrepancy be covered? Who's gonna pay her? Will the three of the four Greeks, who are unable to be consistent with the payment of their accounts, or 30%, which states that they want to leave Greece and seek better luck in another country, particularly in Germany and the United Kingdom, or are farmers, who, through taxation on direct payments and an additional fee of 100% for next year, actually being exterminated? What's he telling us? It tells us that the large loose ends, bureaucratic and other, objective and pre-formative, will be overcome in 2017, which, for the second consecutive year, we budget an unthinkable sum of EUR 2.6 billion. The regional airports of 'FRAPORT', the thriller of the DESFA, the property in Afantou, Rhodes, which is blocked by the Ministry of Culture, the case of 'TRAINOSE', which remains attached to the Court of Auditors? We heard about the Greek one just now, but the image is extremely problematic. However, there are raisins of optimism in relation to some of the economic indicators. Even subtle, unemployment is falling. For the first time, after many years, we have one - even marginal - increase in wages for employees. Processing, as well as jobs in this area, seems to be moving upwards. In the export sector, which had collapsed in the previous period, something seems to be moving. In general, it seems positive to be a series of economic indicators. What does that mean? Does that mean we're getting out of the crisis? That would really be the positive scenario, but we are, unfortunately, a long way from it, even though we would all really wish to be close to the exit. The new delays in the closure of the assessment due to involvement in labour and finances, the voices that are densing for a fourth memorandum, but especially the Greek impossibility of attracting new investments that will produce national wealth, and of course will bring solid jobs, taking us out of the long-term loan cycle, threaten again to cancel any optimistic scenarios. Ladies and gentlemen, Mario Draghi declares determined to continue the expansionist monetary policy. This means that we need to run to complete the second assessment and intensify structural reforms, leaving aside frustration and ambiguity on the part. It is a one-way road to participate in the quantitative relaxation, an opportunity which we will not have for a long time. In all this, we must not miss that Erdogan's ever-growing aggression escalates uncertainty and precariousness in our neighborhood. It seems to forget that the pacta sunt servanda, i.e. that the agreements must be respected, unless the conditions have changed. It is a rule that brings international balance. It reiterates at every opportunity the question of the Treaty of Lausanne, at the same time as it confirms that it does not question the sovereignty of neighbouring countries, as he did on Monday in his speech at the NATO Parliamentary Summit in Istanbul, where I was a member of the Greek delegation. At the summit, he also accused the West of hypocrisy, saying that weapons from our allies are being used in Syria and Iraq and that countries that have two standards on terrorism will pay it dearly. He recalled that Turkey has welcomed over three million Syrian refugees, with little help from other countries and called for the practical solidarity of the West in order for these people to stay there. One day earlier, confirming how unpredictable it is, returning from Uzbekistan, he told reporters that Turkey should not be nailed to the European Union and indeed wondered why it could not become a member of the Shanghai Pact, since it has already discussed with the Russian President and the leader of Kazakhstan. In fact, on tomorrow, the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs said Beijing was willing to see a positive demand for Turkey to join this pact. Erdogan called on the European Union to make it clear by the end of the year if he wishes Turkey within it, otherwise he referred to the possibility of a referendum on the end of the accession negotiations as a choice of the Turkish people. He threatened that if the European Union did not abolish the visa for Turkish nationals by the end of the year, it would be released from the agreement on refugee. Yesterday the European Parliament mocked at the resolution it adopted on the end of the accession negotiations. Yesterday's glorious conclusion of the Cyprus negotiations in Mon Peleran, after Erdogan's phone intervention to Akinji, adds new heavy clouds to the horizon. In this bad reality, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who thinks that we still have the luxury to go into small-party games and in our trenches of trenches, offers bad services to the people and the country. With coolness and responsibility, far from disastrous divisions and falsified divisions between patriots and endorses, which have cost us both in the past, we must also agree with each other, with realism and self-confidence to support the Cypriot Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, too. Mr. Kouzilos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. In Articles 4 to 6, electricity supply is defined in the national policy framework. There is no national policy framework. The European Union is currently legislating, the European Union is giving us the instructions and we are implementing them and making them the law of the state. We have been looking to find this national policy framework that has been in place for so many days and is not there, we are not seeing it anywhere. We are going a little further, to ask you a simple question, that is, if you have mapped out how many vehicles are powered and gased, so that we can have a picture of what is going on throughout the territory and how the famous development, which you say, can be achieved with this bill you bring. Paragraph 5 of Article 4 shall be assessed within the national policy framework or on-site electricity supply. It shall apply as a priority to ports on the Trans-European Transport Network. There are two categories of port right now, central and extensive port networks. The main features are Thessaloniki, Igoumenitsa, Piraeus, Patras, Heraklion, and the extensive network are ports such as Corfu, Mykonos, Mytilini, Naxos, Paros, Rhodes, Santorini, Skiathos, Syros, Chalkida, Chios, Chania. I mean, we're talking about the big ports you're selling, like the PPA, sold. Yesterday there was a post on various websites on the Internet that it will be sold very soon - because Mr. Flaburaris, Mr. Kurublis - is preparing for the meeting. As far as we know, in early January there is a competition for the OLF. So, what networks are we talking about controlling, since they're foreign ports? As for the remaining ports on the extensive network, we are talking about the fourteen regional ports, which will follow after the OLTH after Thessaloniki. So we don't control this network, but they'll control it privately, they'll control it by strangers, they'll control it by those who have the upper hand. We should come to something else. If, at the moment, 'COSCO', that is, the PPA says 'I do not want to participate', what do we do? There is the 'POSEIDES' project, which I believe you will know, which will link the ports to an extensive network, to connect them to the gas transmission networks. The PPA then, in public terms, replied that it was taking part in this programme. Now what? We also don't know the luck of the DSA. From that point on, we need to see what will happen to Rethyssa, which is the DESFA, how Rethyssa and Megaron will connect to the Megaron road network, to connect and supply the whole natural gas network. We're talking about electric cars right now. Electric cars have also built Greek universities. Should we start growth from there? Do we need to see the Greek businesses from there, as my competitors, Elias Panayotaros and Yannis Sahinides said yesterday? Should we also see our production here? I'm on it. According to European Directive 94/2014, by 2025 the most important ports in the European Union, such as Piraeus and Thessaloniki, should have infrastructures for the supply of liquefied natural gas fuel, known as LNG. They will also have to define the sea and inland ports, i.e. all those who will provide us with the fuel you are going to sell to them. In fact, the fourteen regional ports that will provide these supply points with LNG, terminals, tankers and barges. Another issue arises here, too, how important it is that you want to sell it. Along with an extensive, well-organised transport network, which can provide all over Greece. But what are we talking about? For a public business. What are you going to do? You're going to sell everything, and there's actually no one to be able to do all this. In conclusion, I would like to say in general that once you sell gas, the DESFA, that is, the energy, you sell ports, so the number one with which you could approach ships, to provide us with gas, since their roads control big-workers, since you are not going to reduce and abolish the excise duty on natural gas, what development are we talking about? For what Community directive, which will be implemented and brought us jobs, growth, etc. And all those big words you're talking about? In fact, nothing will be done. We are not optimistic about the future of our country, and we are not optimistic about what is coming, because from what everyone says, the next government will be a New Democracy government, and that is why we are not optimistic, because we know that they will continue the same policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u109	So do we. Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we shall be voting on the amendment which, as I understand it, the Minister has accepted, but we as a New Democracy will not accept it, because we consider that other things are being concealed. I shall, however, come back to a number of issues that I have raised with the Minister, and I would like to ask him to give me an answer on the position of work. It is therefore appropriate to also be recorded in the Minutes. I had asked him whether there is any conclusion or some report of the committee of N.4337/2015 on the monitoring and coordination of the reorganization and restructuring of Athens' urban transport. More generally, I would expect further clarification as to what the Ministry's real intentions are in terms of urban transport - since we have the opportunity to have the Minister here - both in terms of the structure and the future of the workers. As the SYRIZA rapporteur has heard a number of things, I should like to say this. We are talking here not in a political or social vacuum, and of course we are not in a sterile environment. It makes sense, therefore, when there are topical issues, that we should be able to comment on them, because I think it is also a matter for colleagues and also for the Greek society in general. What I said yesterday, namely the attack taken by the Minister of Foreign Affairs - I mean on the Internet - from a friendly adjacent website to SYRIZA and indeed the ownership of SYRIZA MEP Mr Kouloglu - is something that concerns us. I have said so with the wish that the government should disprove it from Mr Kotzia' s point of view, which has not happened until now. My dear colleague Mr Spartinos, the SYRIZA rapporteur, dedicated seven of the eight minutes of his time to the bill, but to comment on the discussions, analyses and positions taken by colleagues, which is also legitimate. I should just like to welcome him, because this is really the democratic dialogue within the Chamber, so that we can also comment on the position of colleagues. I would also like to remind you that the New Democracy has taken a responsible stand in Parliament. Whatever is positive, we are voting for it - as in this bill and in almost all of its articles - and what is negative, of course, we are voting against it, unlike SYRIZA, who, when in opposition, was in existence and was introduced into the Chamber, was against it. In fact, bills such as, for example, for the protection of first residence, had voted against them for reasons of regularity, for reasons of opposition, for reasons of fact, which, in any case, I think have been returned to the government now. Because he also made a reference to the work of Mr Spartinos and what the position of the New Democracy is, I think that here really the SYRIZA Government and the government MPs should not talk about labour. This is a government, which was electorally saying that it will increase the minimum wage from EUR 586 to EUR 751 and we see that it itself, in the second assessment, proposes a minimum wage of EUR 527. Also, while he had promised to remove flexible forms of employment, we see that in October 2016 two out of three new jobs, which arise, are through these forms of flexible work. In fact, he promised to more than double the unemployment benefit. We see that in October 2016 the number of registered unemployed in the OAED reached eight hundred and eighty-four thousand. We, ladies and gentlemen, must tell you that, as the new Republic, we have said that Greece must follow the acquis communautaire and that the best European practices must be followed. For example, we do not think that lock out should be introduced, i.e. retreat, there is no need to change the minimum wage and there is no need to change to the limit of group redundancies. We believe, however, that there is a need for areas of trade union law to limit the excessive privileges of trade unionists. It's something we need to discuss. We have clear positions. But SYRIZA has turned the country back many years, I think he is not entitled to speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr Kefaliannis, for managing time. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u112	I won't waste all the time. First of all, I would like to point out as a positive point that even the opposition parties are advocating this adjustment. I have no more to say. I think there's nothing I could consider negative to comment on. But I would like to remind you that this adjustment is a prerequisite. We are at a very, I would say, a historic turning point on the subject of the second assessment, and I really want to describe as positive the fact that there is at least one responsibility with regard to this bill. I still want to say something and I won't get far. A moment ago - because we are now four Members for all the parliamentary work of a party and fall into our backs from here, and so on. - I was in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, where I was listening to the many good things of the European Union and how good it is for the Monet, for a man who has envisioned other things than what we have today. Because I am a little landed and my mind is square, I believe, first of all, that I belong to those who believe that the juncture is unique to change a lot of things in the European Union. It is not the European Union that envisioned those who made it, one of them is Monet, but others, such as Constantine Karamanlis, De Gaul, Antenauer. It is another European Union today and I am sorry to say it. In other words, we cannot, at the moment, have an explosive problem with refugees, almost left us alone, to hear that the Belgians are withdrawing their own people, resettlement not to be done, not to even send us the staff who are committed. Good and sanctuary for the European Union, but I think it has taken a little harder, which the choice of absolute austerity is destroying countries now, not just Greece. I think, therefore, that countries such as France, Portugal, Italy, Spain, Greece must fight with nails and teeth - and, I believe, it is this prerequisite - to change this circumstance, this reality, in order to enrich a particular country. I don't have anything with her people. I would like to believe, however, that the juncture is positive for us. I would also like to say that in this difficult turning point, tones need to be lower, what I saw today in this particular bill, to see it in general. We are fighting at the moment the surpluses after 2018 are low. We are fighting for a small extension, which does not go through any Parliament, for some constant interest rates and a period of grace a little longer, and things that do not cost anything. This cynical statement by some people, that we have elections, and we do not care what you are doing in Greece or in other countries, I think it works reluctantly for the European Union, so as not to use other barbaric expressions. I am a Europeanist, and I believe that most of us in here are and we will continue to be and fight to change this ideal, that is, to come to the Monet era, which was really a protagonist with clean and beautiful intentions. I have nothing more to say. We are voting in favour of this adjustment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u113	Thank you. Mrs Zaroulia has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. In yesterday's position, our MEP, Mr. Panayotaros, referred to the domestic automotive industry "NAMCO", which also the SYRIZA-ANEL convergence, is not helping. On the contrary, she is pushing her into foreign arms like those of the United Kingdom. Let us stress that, apart from passenger Pony, it also manufactures professional vehicles such as, for example, agricultural lorries, military, ambulances, which we need - because we know that the ambulances currently do not have spare parts and are immobilised, and even though I have asked a lot of questions, the government deserving of answering to me what is going to do in this direction - and fire-fighting vehicles, and indeed with special know-how. It has made a special patent for this Greek automotive industry, so that the fire extinguisher can obtain water from the sea while others, more expensive, imported, do not have this possibility. But it also manufactures other vehicles, which, with proper state support, since there was a national policy, could distribute them at low cost to the Greek market and would work to the Greeks as well. While the Greeks placed their hopes on the country's "first time left" for clearance and moral rule, it was known a few days ago that the Prosecutor of Narcotics Ioannis Koutras proposed to the Board of Appeals of Athens the discharge of the former head of ELSTAT Andreas Georgiou for the felony of the false attestation. In particular, the criminal section of the Ice Bay, in its decision No 1331/2016, set aside the number 11149/2015 Council of Appeals of Athens, as regards its decision that no charge should be made against Mr Georgios and the two Heads of ELSTAT for the offence of false attestation against the public authorities, in conjunction with the aggravating circumstances of the particularly high value. However, Mr Kutras, who has undertaken to re-examine a proposal to the Board of Appeal, assessing the elements of the case file - relates to complaints about technical expansion of the 2009 deficit in order for Greece to be introduced into the burdensome memorandum regime - it has concluded that there are no criminal responsibilities in the case and is therefore recommended that there should be no charge. I mean, one of the same. Doyakos did his miracle again. The last miracle of Isidoros Doyakos, shortly before leaving the office of the Chief of the Prosecutor of the Prosecutor's Prosecutor, was the re-covering operation of the former director of ELSTAT Andreas Georgiou on the tempted data, we read from the newspaper 'DOCUMENTO'. Of course, the current government, not only does not object, but welcomes this provocative decision. All states, all nations have a vision. Only in Greece is there no vision. You've got it all leveled up. You continue the disastrous policy of the monuments, isolated the country from geostrategic alliances in the interest of our Greece. You are negative as far as the new US government is concerned, at the same time that Erdogan manages it intelligently and for the benefit of Turkey. You, faithful to the dogma of globalisation, continue your destructive work. It is worth noting that America will send war equipment - in particular, 200 Humvee - in January for free, with all that that implies. So we see that our surrounding countries are armed. And, of course, they don't have the best intentions for our country. We all know the expansionist views of the Albanians, which not only hide but demonstrate them at every opportunity. The Greek Foreign Ministry, however, sleeps the sleep of the law, not to say anything heavier. You are dangerous, and the policy you are implementing will unfortunately find us many bad things. What are you doing? You don't care about the interests of the Greeks. You're signing memos. You are making the Greek people even more voluntarily. You lead him to tolerance, suicide and immigration, to bring here your new voters, who illegally cross the borders of our country, to take the homes of the Greeks you have made sure to take them with the extermination tax you impose on our compatriots. In this way you will legalise the raids, who invade daily by bringing them crimes, diseases, as they inform us of the relevant statistics of CEDEFOP and other relevant bodies. As much as you do not want to admit it, that is the truth, which you are baptizing 'racist rhetoric'. Like hepatitis A, our alpha or beta compatriot is racist rhetoric and not a reality! You are enemies of the nation! You are enemies of Hellenism! The sooner the Greek people understand that, the better for him. As far as your democraticity is concerned, which you do not want to invoke, I will tell you this: stop hypocrisy. Nobody believes you. You manage the country in a monarchy, fascist way, when the referendums that you make are changing and distorting the will of the Greek people, who has voted for you to serve him and not to serve foreign interests. Repeatedly we have denounced the blockade of Golden Dawn on television. This confirms the elements of the National Broadcasting Council, which proves that the political pluralism is not respected, as the representation of the Golden Dawn is smaller than the totally non-existent DIMAR of 0.49%. We don't have a democracy, do we? In addition, you are acting authoritarianly and deviatingly on the country's third political power, the People's Association - Golden Dawn. The fact is that it is not too few times that it comes up to this step and speaks from the Golden Dawn and even the responsible Minister, who is obliged to attend under the Rules of Procedure. There are not many ministers responding, as is also the case in the Rules of Procedure of the House, completely irregularly, to the parliamentary control of the Golden Dawn, the third political party in the country so far. Even the official press release of this House, when it does not completely disappear to us and does not mention us, refers to our party as if it were the last to be elected. For the truth, I will submit to the minutes the Inspection for Parliament and the European Parliament in October with a number of 169, where on page 4 in particular it mentions the Secretary-General of the Golden Dawn Nicholas Michaelakos last in the debate on this issue, which was held at the level of Heads of State on the conflict. And on page 41, at a meeting held by the Committee on Transatlantic Trade Agreements, where I expect my party to be mentioned after New Democracy, the JRC, the Potami, which took place, the Centroon Association, and then the Golden Dawn, which is much higher in the preference of the Greek people than in your place. You have circumvented Parliament's Rules of Procedure and you have interpreted it to suit your own tastes. You have no right to deprive us of the privileges of the third legitimately elected political power of the country. In a fascist way, you have not given us the position of our Vice-President, according to the will of the Greek people, but you have given it to another party that literally fell into the elections. Of course, you mean democracy. Indeed, you forget about democracy! What do you think? You call us fascists, nazis, neonazis and everything else that makes you feel, live your myth, while you are the real red fascists, the ones who steal the Greek people. You steal his homes, his wages, his sweat, his trouble, his pensions, his dreams. Nicos Michaloliakos, the Chief of the People's League - Golden Dawn, has had to enter the House, force you to show your true face, take the masks of hypocrisy, lies and that you are the ones defending justice and democracy. Who? You who have signed all the memorials and are preparing for the fourth and I am making the people poorer. Irrespectively Savages! Or better, you disgusting nuts!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Maniotis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, since an extensive debate was held earlier at the meeting between the Government and Civic Opposition on how the country entered memoranda, I would like to make something clear to both sides. The bad political game, SYRIZA and the New Democracy trying to hide their historical responsibilities for how the country entered the Memorandums in 2010 one and for how the country suffered the third Memorandum of Tsipras for the other, must finally be stopped. If they really want with honesty, honesty and a sense of responsibility to discuss the issue that is afflicting the Greek people for over seven years, let them accept the only serious proposal, the proposal of the Democratic Alliance, to become a committee of inquiry from 2001, namely how we entered EMU by 2016, namely how we reached the third and worst Memorandum of Tsipras. Otherwise, such discussions lead to deadlocks and conceal the real problems faced by the Greek people. I now come to the subject, which I particularly want to talk about, and which concerns the issue of the Greek and the current Minister, who I hope in his speech will answer the top question regarding the country's largest investment. And this is the airport of Greek. The train station of road transport must be removed. He should have been removed from his post on 11 November 2016. The government has signed this, the Minister present has signed it. Not only has there been no such relocation, moving, but there has been no preparation of any kind. What does the Minister say? "It's not my fault. It is the fault of the private.' Minister, if it is to blame for private investors, for resigning and imposing what is provided for in the contract you have signed. But you cannot tell us that the private person must have submitted the master plan and the strategic environmental impact study when, for example, you have not told him where he is and what he is kept on the basis of the decisions of the Ministry of Culture, when you have not told him whether or not he has forest land to the extent to which you are going to grant him. Therefore, since neither you nor the private investor are entitled to a fortune of the Greek State, the Greek citizens, say what each of you wants, we require full information from the Greek citizens, and above all from who is responsible - and it is your responsibility - for not implementing the largest relocation program from the Greek airport, which is the ETHEL train station, the road transport, from which, I repeat, two thousand routes are served every day, namely, hundreds of thousands of Athenian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr. Maniot. Mr. Karastasis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with one comment from Mr Maniotis' speech. I would like to remind you that on 25 January 2015 this place had 27% unemployment, it had a million two thousand unemployed, it had about two hundred thousand young scientists abroad, it had the OSCE and IKA funds with one 750,000,000 debts - some will know better - the other 800,000, 000. From there on, to have a debate on who is to blame and who is not to blame at the moment for the memorialities, I think that the Greek people are well aware of it. Now, let's get ours to the point. This regulation, which comes today with the directive to cover it, I think it creates a common institutional framework with which the use of alternative fuels in all countries of Europe is for the first time promoted. Because it has been adequately covered by both our rapporteur and the Minister, I would like to make a comment on this first piece of work for the agencies and the way alternative fuels are used. I think that with the draft legislation under discussion - and I think it is a response to those who criticise us - we are looking forward to the positive results of the national economy and the sustainable development of the country, as well as to the reduction of unemployment by introducing new professions in the field of repair and maintenance of alternative fuel vehicles, as well as in the new technologies that will appear for the way in which these vehicles will function. I would like to make an intervention because it has been said that we are discussing a directive. We are not discussing a directive today alone. We have a very important issue too. In Article 28 - and this is a very important issue with regard to road safety - it is unequivocally clear and the definition of the road network, for which the ban on the traffic of vehicles more than three and a half tonnes, applies as a network used alongside highways and alternatives to highways and highways. And there should be clear labelling of the text of the Law on the effects of this use of heavy vehicles, namely the breach of the road safety framework - this is the most important thing that the state must ensure to road users - the burden of the residential and natural environment alongside the network and the damage of the network that has been built with specifications of a smaller load and vehicle weight. I think that beyond the invaluable value of the lives of people who are lost in accidents and, of course, all those who survive with huge problems and are disabled throughout their lives, it is indicative that the cost of maintenance of roads, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, under a concession contract, amounts to about EUR 16,700,000 over the last three years. It is an amount that you can understand how it could be distributed. I think that this regulation seeks to decongested the road network which operates alongside highways and highways as the old national network. What needs to be left out of this article is the Minister's commitment to meet the concessionaires and the responsible ones on these roads in the next week, to have a solution to the possibility of using the primary national network at lower prices on tolls so that human safety can be ensured first. I believe that the Minister will make a very great effort to enable these possibilities to alleviate all these parallel roads which are used for local traffic - it is well known - but also the secondary national network, which we all know is a constant demand for all local communities. They must be abandoned to protect human life, protect the natural and residential environment on the side road, and protect the road network. I think we should also take into account the strong contracts, which exist from 2007 and 2013, when it comes to setting prices. We will remember how these laws have been produced and in 2007 and 2013. These concessions, all of which, I think, cause too many problems in the world. With regard to Article 29 for engineers, I think that there is an attempt to regulate all the specialities of engineers, that is to say, the nine institutions of all four young people - and I will mention them who are: the engineers of planning, town planning and development, environmental engineers, mineral resources engineers and production and administration engineers - so that only three of these specialities, namely the architect, topographer and civil engineering, as foreseen in the old 2014 legislation, are not taken into account. The award of specific professional rights to each of these thirteen specialities of diplomat engineers is a benefit to society, as the framework for the professional activities of the diplomat engineer is clarified in such a way as to serve the public interest and the safety of the construction and infrastructure of the country, private and public. I think it is very important here to mention - although the Minister said so - that the professional rights of TEI and TEI graduates - are people who are studying - will be defined, as they must have specific rights, by launching such procedures together with the Ministry of Education. I think I should make a reference to Mr. Maniots. Mr Maniotis, our country begins and has a national energy strategy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u119	Now she's getting...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u120	I'll explain now. Wait a minute. It turns into an energy hub in the Balkans. We do not erase and cancel any attempts that have been made in the right direction. But I can't make a report. You will remember that in 2004 with the General Building Regulation you had forced the entire Greek people, from where the gas would pass, to make the gas facilities. What did that mean? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President. For there to be facilities, they were costing about 4,000 euros. That is where the gas has never arrived, these facilities have been deported, and I think it was a huge shortage, because in at least three regions then the PSC did not. At the moment, the government is making a huge effort. Central Greece and central Macedonia and eastern Macedonia are included, so they can have their connections...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u121	Please...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u122	Mr. Maniot, please. Mr. Karanastasis, don't pay attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u123	I would like the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u124	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u125	I would like the floor for personal reasons, Mr President. Mr President, I will obviously reply. Are you kidding?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u126	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u127	I don't understand, Mr. President. I'm the one who's here, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u128	I mean, then, that the government is making a huge effort for all people who have paid facilities to have gas at the moment and who have been deceived because the gas has not gone and you know that. Before closing, I would also like to reply to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, who, in his speech yesterday, thought it was a good thing, instead of being placed in the bill, to attack the government on all matters. We do not wish in any way to be angry or to point out what will be mentioned in this House. I would like to say that New Democracy is making a desperate effort to return to the government. I believe that by pushing the country into the shadow of the international scene and the abyss of the crisis, where it has been carried away and held for many years, the New Democracy will have to wait - and I say this - for too many years and they know well. In a few days' time the government's negotiation will be successful and the second assessment will be closed. This will open the way, both for the regulation of debt and for the relief of people with red loans and for quantitative relaxation and I believe that the country will return to stability, creating conditions for growth. The alliances that the government has secured are a guarantee of this. Greece is finally coming out of the isolation of all parties that have ruled over the past few years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u129	Finish, Mr. Karastasis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u130	I shall conclude, Mr President. Heads of large states - and yesterday we mentioned this - such as Obama, Putin and Holland, social groups and the Pope have come to our country in the past year, not for tourism, nor to draw our ears, as they used to do with your own governments. They came to confirm their support for our country's effort and praise us for what we have achieved. So we leave you in the arms of polls, which give you great victories, and they will finally leave you out of the bridesmaid. We are therefore giving an appointment to the 2019 elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u131	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u133	Why, Mr. Maniots?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u134	On staff, Mr. President. My colleague made an individual reference and you have an obligation to give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u135	Anyone who can't take the word of his name in here can't take the word!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u136	He referred to staff and needs to receive a proper answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u137	It wasn't personal, it was political criticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u138	In two minutes, I'll explain what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u139	Aren't you going to the House Channel after all?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u140	I'll go. But, when my colleague is provoking here, he will get the right answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u141	Mr Maniotis, political criticism is not a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u142	I'd be out of here all this time!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u143	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u144	My colleague, obviously ignoring fundamental developments in the energy sector, has induced me because from 2004 onwards natural gas has not been expanded in some areas. So I answer to him that, from 2004 to 2009, others ruled, to whom it can be addressed. From 2009, however, until 2014, which we had the responsibility, whether in part or in whole, for the governance of the country, I inform him that the following has been done: Firstly, for the region of Epirus, the ITGI pipeline was provided to supply the continent with a natural gas network. Secondly, for the Peloponnese region, as regards the large pipeline that has been completed and which we financed in order to supply the Megalopolis gas plant in Arcadia, there is also an explicit legal commitment to set up a natural gas network in the Peloponnese Region.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u146	No, Mr. Caranastasis!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u147	In addition, Mr President, for the region of eastern Macedonia and Thrace, for the region of central Macedonia and for the region of Central Greece, three years ago, we have opened three international competitions, in order for the network to take place in these regions and the competitions have come to fruition. The question is: What will the current government do, given that these networks were put into the Juncker package, so that they could also be financed from European funds? The government has an obligation to apologise, not us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u148	It's all right in the country. With multiple triumphs, the country has arrived here! Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u149	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Karastasis, we won't keep giving up. Are we gonna do ping pong with Mr. Maniots?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, you are chairing. You don't have to comment on colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u152	It's a general remark. I didn't comment on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, Mr Maniotis will have to respond to those who built facilities from 2004 onwards, because otherwise they could not obtain a building permit, so how they would be justified when they paid EUR 4,000 and EUR 5,000 for each apartment, and at the moment they are completely devalued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, I would like to address two formal issues, and I will develop them and then move on. The first is that the amendment is accepted, although we have said so, and the second is that, in Article 18(1), I correctly repeat the number of CSCE, which is F2/1617/2010/B 1980, because it had become a mistake. That's typical. Ladies and gentlemen, it is really rare that there is such cooperation and an effort to improve a draft law in parliamentary procedures. That is why I have to thank and congratulate all the parliamentary representatives, deserveful opposition, rapporteurs and speakers and other parties. Obviously apart from the draft law and the faces and personalities play their part when we have such procedures. There has been an opportunity to discuss other issues. Some have been answered and some will be answered now. Mr. Kefaliannis, there have been six meetings of the Urban Transport Restructuring Committee. Three findings have been made. The restructuring is also going on, but it goes on in another sense, in another direction than the one you and the then president and CEO of the OSCE had planned. We have found the plan that he has proposed to the institutions for the restructuring of urban transport. In other words, there will be no capital hunters, there will be no and the rational disorganization of the three urban transport companies will continue. There will be no credit external workers, such as drivers, auditors and other critical specialists. There will be no mandatory distractions from the companies, because we have great gaps in the critical specialities. And, finally, there will not be - to say this in a few words - privatisation of Athens' urban transport, that is, what you and the governments that you have been involved in. With regard to Cape Verde - let us go to another issue - and the request made by Mr Kegeroglou, Mr Dannelis, Mr Synthraki - has also been addressed by Socrates Vardakis and the other Members of the SYRIZA of Heraklion Prefecture - Mr Stathakis answered. Whenever we have a change in the institutional framework of public works, public procurement, unfortunately, all services cannot respond. So what we're going to do is help assist the ministry's services there. I will contact immediately so that the competitive process of the project can be completed and I will help what is needed. However, there is no institutional involvement or embroidery.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u156	It's the transitional period, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u157	It's true, of course. It shall apply until the standards for tendering have been formally adopted by the OSH. Now I would like to say two things because there was criticism of the Greek. The previous government had a competition. The competition provided for the movement of many facilities, the train station, the Civil Aviation Agency, social infrastructure, the Transport Laboratory and many others. What had that government anticipated in making this tender for the transfer of these facilities? Just go? He predicted where they'd go? Has he predicted the cost of these relocations? Did he anticipate the cost that it would cost the government to leave these facilities and go somewhere else? Oh, no! Have we met this as a practice before? Of course, we've met before. We have met this before and the old political system had become addicted to making a competition, providing for relocations, movements, expropriations and transferring them to the performance phase of the contract, not before. It is what we overthrowed by the law no longer on public procurement, so that it does not come back to the public and pay compensation for no reason and that the contractors are asking for and I do not know what and the public are at the corner of the fact that it is not fierce in the performance of a contract. Don't ask us for the change today! For God's sake! In order to substantiate, however, and the answer I gave, I also submit the memorandum of cooperation which provides that the relocation of the train will take place three days before the transfer of the shares of "ELLINIKI SA" to the broker, which means a very long process. I wish the investor could overcome the problems he has and run the procedures. I put forward the memorandum of cooperation to see Mr Maniotis and anyone else who wants to see that when we say something, it's the way we say it. [[At this point, the Minister for Transport and Infrastructure Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There is a practice - I have followed it several times too - not to respond to extreme voices both within Parliament and outside. We are doing this because it really is so distorting that criticism is becoming populist, which is not worth it. But it is wrong, because when you do not respond, you do not show an extreme and populist criticism of such issues, you leave extremist voices and forces to grow. So there has been criticism of a man, Mr Delagramatika. The question he raises is about ventilation, pressure and suppression valves. It's my specialty, but it's not my role to be scientific in this matter. However, I would like to mention the following: there has been a complaint from Mr Delagratika. He has made a complaint to officials who have recommended this standard that is also within the draft law on these valves. Officials have been relieved. The previous government sent it to the Technical Chamber and the Special Scientific Committee on Engineering and the Special Scientific Committee on Chemical Engineering and the National Technical University. The limits set by the agency and we recommend them, we have them within the draft law, have been set by international standards and international standards and contribute to greater safety of the facilities than Mr Delabotics proposes. We'll send her back to the Technical Chamber and Metsovio to see her again. I'll file all the correspondence and complaints from Mr. Delagratika with the TE and the rest of the institutions. It's rich, it's really rich. [[At this point, the Minister for Transport and Infrastructure Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The federations of the liquid-fuel stations were also asked. Mr. Asmatoglou told us that he disagrees with one agency specific in five and a half thousand. I therefore hope that there will be even more careful criticism from the extremes of Parliament, because they are irreparablely exposed. But it is a good thing to talk about it here too, so that they can be exposed even more. The JRC's partners have been criticised for the article on the professional rights of engineers. The experience so far shows us that, where there is no reliable system and procedures for giving access to specific professional fields, that is, what has been done for so many years in our country, those who serve it serve the dismantling, the degradation of this profession and generally of the scientific professions. That's what's been happening all these years. In other words, when we are not going to streamline our legislation, what we are serving is neoliberalism in the scientific professions. We have two major schools in Europe. We have the European, the continental - let us call it this way - a system followed by France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Spain. There's an Anglo-Saxon system. We don't have a dogmatism. Our country, ever since it was founded, followed by the first one. If we go to implement the Anglo-Saxon system, this means that we have another insurance structure, another structure in certifications, another structure in the way our society works and our market. So if we go to one of the two systems - we believe in the European system - that means that too many spaces need to be changed. What has happened so far has been that previous governments should borrow and institutionalise scrolling legislation that has taken one of the elements of the Anglo-Saxon system and one of the European ones and dismantle the scientific professions. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I therefore believe that this article at last relates to the curriculum and the curriculum of study of a department with the access of its graduates to professional fields. It's very important. Indeed, it is not the case that applies to graduates from foreign polytechnics, diplomats and engineers, that it does not apply to our own graduates. I've heard other colleagues' placements. This is not about the Ministry of Education, it must be clear. The Ministry of Education founds the departments either at the IOIs or at the TEIs, it places not the professional rights, as they distortably say, but the professional outline of their graduates. The productive ministries that are responsible and nominate their professional rights by presidential decree. For TEIs, a commitment is that there will be a solution, not to the logic of the old-family parliamentarians of decades, who have maintained a so-called conflict between diplomats and graduate engineers to reproduce mechanisms and have election support every time from the political system. They can't pay TEI graduates for these mistakes. Not to mention names - once I had made - the ones who played the so-called counter. That is where we will have cooperation with all the governments of the Parliament. With the Ministry of Education we have consulted on these things so that we can take such an initiative and solve this problem once and for all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u159	No, Mr President, I'm not done. I have more answers to give.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u160	Consider the Environmental Department's request in Western Greece. They're waiting too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u161	And that's what we need to see. In the case of shipwreck engineers - engineers there is specialty, and indeed special, basic expertise. Shipbuilding engineers are specialty, and our Polytechnic is pulling out shipwreck mechanics. So, they're both shipwrecks and engineers, they have two specialties. Computer engineers also have their own specialty in electronic engineering. So there's no question. With regard to the amendment tabled, Mr Syntagakis, we and we are consistently implementing and serving anything we commit ourselves to. It is therefore accepted. On the side network, on my own initiative, a meeting has been held on Tuesday between the Federation and the concessionaires to discuss the toll of heavy vehicles over three and a half tons. The land transport sector has been affected, has been greatly affected by past policies and must, however, be supported by reductions in road safety, in other areas. We'll do that. To conclude, I would like again to thank all Parliament's wings and to continue to draft the national alternative fuel policy framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, I would like to speak for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u163	What do you want, Mr. Shahinides?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u164	To give an answer to the Minister because he referred to extreme voices.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u165	I mean, did you recognize...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u166	Are you an extreme voice? I've got...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u167	I filed the complaint, so I have the right to speak. Minister, obviously your partners are telling you wrong because they always happen to speak from the Golden Dawn - either me or someone else - to be absent from the Chamber. Make sure you get up to date. What I filed in the Minutes as a complaint is neither a voice nor a Golden Dawn conclusion. It was a complaint, and even when I started to mention it, I asked the House whether it has also come to the e-mails of the other Members of Parliament. I don't know the gentleman nor is he on Golden Dawn. I just thought it was appropriate to present it as soon as a complaint was made which has been directly related to security issues. So, where are you guys judging it to be an extreme voice? And a small point to make to Mr. Karastasis, because he said that the side road network...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u168	It's not like that now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u169	That's just what I'm gonna say. It's not a controversy. The side road network, Mr. Karastasis, has been created to withstand three and a half tons of trucks. It used to be a highway.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u170	Thank you. Mr Dimitrios Gassis and Mr Georgios Vartenmenos are calling for a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u171	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "Integration into the Greek Legislation of Directive 2014/94/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, I would like to take the personal floor on something that the Minister said. May I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u174	Now we're in the voting process, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u175	I haven't had time, have I? It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u176	The debate on the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is therefore concluded: ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/94/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 on the development of Alternative Fuel Infrastructures, simplification of procedure, authorisation and other provisions of service stations, and other provisions’. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Their vote will be taken separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u178	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u179	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u180	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u181	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u185	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u188	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u190	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u192	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u194	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u196	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u197	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u198	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u199	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u200	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u203	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u205	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u206	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u208	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u209	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u212	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u215	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u216	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u217	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u218	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u220	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u221	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u224	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u226	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u228	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u229	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u230	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u232	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u233	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u234	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u235	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u236	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u238	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u239	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u240	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u242	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u243	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u244	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u248	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u251	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u253	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u254	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u257	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u260	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u261	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u262	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u263	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u266	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u267	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u268	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u269	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u271	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u272	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u274	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u275	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u276	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u277	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u278	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u279	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u280	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u281	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u284	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree to Rule 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u285	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u286	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u287	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u288	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u289	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u290	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u291	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u293	Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 14 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u294	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u296	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u298	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u300	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u302	Article 14 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 15 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u303	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u304	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u305	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u307	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u308	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u309	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u311	Article 15 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 16 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u314	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u316	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u317	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u318	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u320	Article 16 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 17 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u323	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u324	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u325	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u326	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u327	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u329	Article 17 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 18 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u332	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u334	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u335	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u336	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u337	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u338	Article 18 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u340	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u341	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u344	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u346	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u347	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 20 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u349	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u350	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u351	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u352	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u353	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u354	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u355	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u356	Article 20 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 21 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u358	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u359	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u360	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u361	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u362	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u363	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u365	Article 21 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u368	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u369	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u371	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u373	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u374	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u377	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u381	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u383	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u386	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u389	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u392	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 25 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u393	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u395	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u396	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u397	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u398	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u399	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u400	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u401	Article 25 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u402	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u403	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u404	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u405	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u406	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u407	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u408	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u409	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u410	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u413	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u414	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u415	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u416	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u418	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u419	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u421	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u422	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u423	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u424	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u425	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u426	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u427	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u428	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House accept Rule 29, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u429	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u430	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u431	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u432	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u433	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u434	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u435	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u436	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u437	Article 29 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 757 and a special number 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u439	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u440	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u441	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u443	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u444	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u445	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u446	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 757 and a special 1 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u449	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u450	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u451	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u452	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u453	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u454	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u455	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘Incorporation into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/94/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 on the development of alternative fuel infrastructure, simplification of the licensing procedure and other provisions of fuel and energy service stations and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and in the articles. We shall now proceed to the vote of the bill and to the whole of it. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u458	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u459	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u460	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u461	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u463	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u464	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/94/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 on the development of alternative fuel infrastructure, simplification of the licensing procedure and other provisions of fuel and energy service stations, and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u465	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u466	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S1-commons.u467	With the consent of the House at no time of 13.45, the meeting for the day Thursday, November 24, 2016, at 18.00, on the subject of Parliament's legislative work: only debate and vote at first, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction: "The Single System of Mobility in Public Administration and Local Government, obligations of the persons appointed in the positions of Articles 6 and 8 of Law No.4369/2016, incompatibility and prevention of conflicts of interest and other provisions".
