ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 21-4-2016, the minutes of its PRID meeting, Thursday 21 April 2016, with regard to the vote in the entire draft law of the Ministry of Development and Food: "Agricultural cooperatives, forms of collective organisation of rural space and other provisions".]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We will begin with the fifth under the number 779/124-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, on the regional road of Thessaloniki. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Balafas. Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think it is well known that the way and the urban structure of Thessaloniki in the shape of a bow tie, to the extent that there is sea on the one hand and Shahik Soo on the other hand, separating the city essentially east and west, has made the regional road half the life of the Thessalonians. For those who do not know Thessaloniki, the road was designed in '70 and was implemented in '90. In other words, since its implementation, he had problems of updating and responding to data, which, in the meantime, had changed over the past twenty years. With data of traffic congestion within the city, Thessalonica and the visitor, who does not want to suffer the traffic burden - because he is headed from the west to the east, from the Serres Prefectures, Pierres, Pella, Kilkis - in order not to bear the load within the city, is headed through the peripheral to Halkidiki and the airport or is the reverse course of those who want to go to work - those who are left with work, anyway - in the industrial zone of Sindu and factories located on the west side of the city. It is this traffic burden that has made the first choice of this particular route, which is now identical to the daily life of Thessalonica. In that sense, I justify why I raise this matter and I think the Thessalonians who are listening to us have understood it. This road, Minister - I hope that your services have informed you -, already in 2011 has been under the jurisdiction of the region here. It is faced with a number of problems. He's not just overcrowded. It was designed for twenty thousand cars. It is used daily by a hundred twenty and a hundred fifty thousand users, especially during the summer months, with tourists and visitors in the city. It is faced with problems at its very beginning, such as the deterioration of the unslipper without an anti-slip surface, the precipitation of the impurities, the poor operation of drainage, the problems of engraving in several parts of the road, the lack of an emergency lane, which creates congestion conditions, the challenge of traffic accidents, due to its poor maintenance, incomplete lighting, especially in its connection to the outside region - we are talking about a blind road - and the absence of any provision of minimum services to road users. I mean, there's no place anyone can do out of the way to answer a phone call to see what's going on with their kid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u3	Please, Mr. Triantafylides, you will continue in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u4	Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President, and for the kindness with which you have told me. Thank you very much. So, on the basis of the above, Minister, we ask the government, firstly, if it intends to make the most necessary and immediate overall upgrading of the regional road of Thessaloniki, with co-operation and co-financing and the joint pursuit of upgrading it with the Region of Central Macedonia. Secondly, I would like to ask you whether the government intends to make the necessary and immediate disposal of funds so that the regional road can be modernised by following international standards and by ensuring the most secure movement of citizens. I shall refer to traffic, accidents and accidents and so on. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the honourable Member, Mr Triantafyllidis, for giving us the opportunity to debate and, as far as possible, to look at the very serious issue he raises. I am also grateful to you for giving me the opportunity to reply on the one hand as Secretary of State for the Interior, but also to remember, on the other hand, my payments and my capacity as a political engineer. I thank him very much for that too. The answer and what I will say, of course, have come through our consultation with the Services of our Ministry with the relevant European programmes responsible Services of the Ministry of Economy and Development, but also after consulting and exchanging documents with the Region of Central Macedonia and in particular with the Regional Metropolitan Unit of Thessaloniki. The answer, which I will give you, is about the responsibilities and responsibilities shared in this regard, of course, by understanding the very important importance it has for Thessaloniki and also in general. We will try to take a step in the direction of dealing with - treating the problem or the more intensified aspects of the problem, particularly the problem of road safety. I talked about treatment - dealing with the problem. The treatment, as you know, Mr President, is primarily about the correct diagnosis and identification of the causes, so that we can see what is planned for action and the implementation of measures, with clear timetables and funding as far as possible. In doing so, we must take into account two pathogens in the work that we are discussing. The first pathogen you mentioned it yourself. The project was designed in the 1970s, was implemented in the mid-1990s and took its current form as a closed motorway in 2005. And that alone creates a problem, a rigidity, I would say, which is difficult to deal with. It has intrinsic weaknesses this regional route. The second pathogen is the fact that in 2011, after the 'CALICRATES' vote and its implementation, the competence of the then Ministry of Foreign Affairs, if I am not mistaken, passed to the district, especially the issue of maintenance - it is not the only case, but this dimension and contradiction - are not particularly strong, without the corresponding transfer of resources, as we have already been informed, and without even passing the information of the archives and necessary staff. The main thing is that the corresponding resources did not go beyond the powers conferred on the region. The Region of Central Macedonia with the Technical Projects Directorate of the Metropolitan Regional Unit of Thessaloniki is trying to deal with the problems that exist. I note that in 2012 the Region of Central Macedonia had estimated the needs of 26 million and had 6 million in order to be able to do its job on this major motorway. This is the framework in which we are moving and in which they have moved all the years. Another regional area at the moment is not planned to be built. These are, therefore, issues of maintenance, rehabilitation, upgrading, modernisation, need to be implemented on the existing one. In this sense, in 2015 from the total amount, some 12 million were allocated to the region through central independent resources. The same amount, slightly increased, was also granted in 2016. For the first time, we had no reduction after years. A percentage of this was allocated, with the monthly disbursement for expenditure relating to projects of this type, such as the regional road, in the region of Central Macedonia. The project under way is the project "Conservation of the Regional Road of Thessaloniki". You know that, he's in progress. The tender was made in March 2015. The budget for this project is 6 million. The contract is the first after 2011 and was signed in November 2015, in a satisfactory time. This work is being carried out, that is, the work of maintaining the regional road, with a two - year schedule. The most struggling sections and the most problematic issues...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u7	You're welcome, Mr. Balafa. You can continue in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u8	Good. I can stop and see the rest of the issues then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. It's not just the overcrowded peripheral road. It is also extremely dangerous, Minister. Only in 2015 were seventy - five roads registered, with a hundred and fifteen persons suffering, five of whom were fatal. The causes of the wheels vary, mainly over speed, because it is a green road. There's no lights. The non-compliance with safety distances, of course, along with the geometric characteristics - i.e. the sharp turns and the downward inclination on some sides and the unequal nodes on this road - makes this risk even greater, plus slippery, plus incomplete lighting at night hours, all that I have said and I do not want to mention again. Minister, it is important that we look beyond the direct management. The Ministry does well and gives this money from the central self-resources, the 6 million for maintenance, with the relative maturity that the project has after the necessary procedures. However, if we do not want to talk about emblematic solutions, that is to say, solutions which will only make it easier for us to use this particular road temporarily, to think that together with the metro and a new relapse of the regional road - the internal regional road - of Thessaloniki should be within our plans and should be recorded as a first priority project, for which, together with your colleague Mr Stathakis, from the Ministry of Development, should also be given the necessary funding, at least to start a study. Because with the characteristics of the road, with the weakness of the side of the Shah Sou to become any folding, as it is forest-protected and the fact that on the other hand we have steep sides, aspects, there is no folding - it is also the issue of the absence of the emergency strip - we need to see the overall redefinition of this road. Is it gonna be a rehab? I also address the political engineer and the knowledge you have. However, on this particular road, whatever improvements are made, they will be marginal. And think that there we have the Papageorgiou Hospital, which accepts people from all over Macedonia and Thrace. At the end of the road, we also have the "Saint Paul" Hospital, and of course we have very large institutions, organizations, etc. I would like to thank the Commissioner for his answer. We talked about a hundred and thirty thousand vehicles for a twenty-thousand-dollar road when it got broken. Well, let's see it in perspective. It is not just management of the current misery and the need due to slippage, etc., but also to look at it combined for the next few years. The subway will be completed - God first - we say in 2020. This, along with this relapse of the new regional road, should be the definitive, radical solution for the life of the Thessalonians and their great anxiety with the traffic and the possibility of going to and from their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Mr Balafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. In view of what the honourable Member said in his dentistry, completing what I had to say earlier, I repeat that we are talking about a project that is under way for the next two years, i.e. the "Conservation of the regional road of Thessaloniki". I should also like to say that the priority is on the ground - and rightly so - the most stricken parts of the regional road, which is why safe maintenance is being carried out, replaced by damaged vehicle intercept systems, green projects are being carried out and there is a renewal of a horizontal and vertical road marking, which is very necessary for road safety by electronic message plates. Especially this month, in April, you know that, under the responsibility of the region, projects were carried out and carried out in order to rebuild the safe, which is very important, earth-moving work, cleanliness of the central island and particularly damage repairs on the road, which requires continuous maintenance, to be in good condition so that we do not mourn, as you have said, victims of road accidents. This is to tackle the problems of the most disadvantaged sections in the project, in the case of the regional road. From there on - you put it in your question and raised it in your denture - there is a more general issue. At this stage we will go basically with these appropriations, with these timetables and with this study, which is certainly not a small thing. We need to see how quickly these projects will be done, how these projects will be done without malicious works, how these projects will be made with the use of the last euro. That is why we have restored - on the occasion of your question - a channel which will remain open to the region, of course, as a ministry, its self-interest in the projects to which you have referred. However, there are more general issues, as you have said, of a relapse. These are, of course, other projects, which are not the responsibility of our own at the moment. I put it to you in the form of a question or in any case my impression that, as the Ministry of Economy informed us, aspects of addressing the problems of this project are not included and perhaps could have been included in the current approved operational programme entitled "Transport Infrastructure, Environment and Sustainable Development 2014-2020". We need to see, see, we all contribute to any aspects to which we have referred, which relate, of course, to funding, can be included in these European programmes. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent debate on Monday 25 April 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning complaints concerning the use of the services of the Municipality of Saronicos, for the election needs of a candidate for the local organisation of the New Democracy. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 810/19-4-2016 by MP Arta, New Democracy, George Stylios, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the provisions of the draft law on the recruitment of assistant teachers. 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance about the excessive charges which the Ministry of Finance tolerates. 4. The Question No 806/19-4-2016 by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Finance about the Greek Vehicle Industry (‘ELVO S.A.’). 5. Under number 803/19-4-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the deposit of bills and receipts from the list of Lagard and National Broadcasting Council (ESP). B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Anna - Michel Asmakopoulou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the financing of the 2007-2013 ESDP projects in jeopardy. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 798/18-4-2016 of the President of Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning non-performing loans. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 2380/15-1-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGlou Vassiliou to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the "restoration of the injustice of the last law on the single wage for the officials of the regions". Also, the Member, Mrs Catherine Marcu, is calling for a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u14	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-six students and schoolchildren and three educational sessions from the private Gymnasium "Madulides" Thessaloniki. Children, follow the session dedicated to parliamentary scrutiny. Members shall come and ask the Ministers, the Government, who shall answer the questions raised by the Members. That is why you see and there is no plenary in the House with many Members because of the nature of parliamentary control. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The third question will be discussed with number 796/18-4-2016, first question by the MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the energy upgrade of the municipal swimming pool of Nafplio. Mr. Maniatou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I have asked you a topical question on a very important issue concerning the sporting youth of Argolida, in particular the Municipalities of Nafplio and Argos. It is about the energy upgrade of Nafplio municipal swimming pool. In October 2014, when I had the honour of leading the Ministry of the Environment, with a body implementing the Renewable Energy Centre, the CAP, we launched an original and very interesting programme for applications of renewable energy in special facilities. Indeed, one month later, in November 2014, the respective municipal company, the Municipality of Nafplio, ICAO, submitted a complete dossier on the energy upgrade of the municipal swimming pool of Nafplio by applying the geothermal heat pumps in order to help save energy. This is a budget project of 800,000 euros. What is of great economic and environmental importance is the fact that its implementation and approval will give energy savings of 40%, i.e. a hundred and fifty tons of oil equivalent, that is to say, we will save emissions of pollutants of a hundred tons of oil and, furthermore, it will also save money from the operation of the swimming pool of 80%. Because, Minister, during the winter months, you realise that the cost is extremely high, so this unit does not work. Because, firstly, the dossier is complete, secondly, the specific form of renewable energy that is the unstable geothermality is a form of renewable sources that we want to expand to Greece and, thirdly, Nafplio, with the great number of visitors, also gives us the opportunity to present this implementation, we want you to tell us where the programme is. We have information that it is at a very good stage and the question is when the possibility will be given, the green light from the CAPE and the Ministry's bodies, in order to have the tender for this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, too. Mr Panos Skourletis will answer Mr Maniotis' question. Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Maniotis, it is indeed the case, as you say, in relation to the course of this project. There has also been this completeness in the file on the use of geothermals for the swimming pool. Of course, this project is part of a programme funded by the EEA, the European Economic Area. The overall budget is given for these projects. Ten proposals have been tabled. These ten proposals provide for an amount of EUR 9 664 000, where, of course, the budget for this project is also the one you are referring to. It's not exactly 800,000, it's 805,000. It doesn't matter that much. There was an evaluation of these proposals, and this project ranked tenths. The money that exists at the moment is sufficient to finance as much as the seventh project, and they will go ahead. Of course, this procedure, as you know, always gives room for discounts. And because there is also a sum that goes far from funding these seven projects, of the EUR 309,000, we will obviously have the possibility - and this has already been confirmed, as this programme is moving forward - to finance the eighth project. So, depending on the course of implementation of the programme, we hope that the resources will eventually be saved to join the tenth, which is what you referred to in your question. As you know, participation in this programme is 85% of the EEA's resources and there is also a 15% share of national resources. In conclusion, as this process goes on, we will try to finance all ten projects. Otherwise, in any other case, you realise that it is very difficult to find the resources, so we will not be able to satisfy the implementation of the ten projects proposed. The evaluation has been carried out by the CFP. I believe that this has been done on the right lines. In other words, there is no question of the way in which these works are ranked and in the hierarchy. It is important, if possible, - and that is what we want and we want you and the services - that all ten projects be financed. This is the picture that exists so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, too. Please, Mr. Maniotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u19	Minister, your answer gives us a note of optimism and a small note of concern. I want to keep the positive. And the positive thing is that we can agree that all ten proposals meet the necessary criteria set out in this programme, namely original forms of renewable sources and a great deal of publicity, so that we can introduce renewable energy into as many applications as possible. I would like, however, to ask, on behalf of both the Ministry and the CAPE, that the budgets of the remaining programmes be allowed to be adopted in all ten proposals. You have rightly said that we expect discounts in the tender procedure. It is obvious that there will be discounts. In my own at least picture of the energy market and the corresponding notices, we may also have 20% discounts and 30% reductions on all projects. This means that we can be extremely optimistic that all ten projects, including the municipal swimming pool in Nafplio, will indeed be approved at the end. I would like to ask your dentistry to have your own positive approach in the direction that I have just described.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u20	Please, Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u21	Mr Manatis, it is very important that the projects, which, particularly in our country, promote geothermality - in which we are not doing well, should have been made much more use of this form of renewable energy - are indeed of their own value. You realize that the ranking that has been done is after evaluation and rating. So, without me going into the way of evaluation, we cannot bypass it. I agree with what you said that all the possibilities must be exhausted for all ten projects to go ahead. There have been too many projects from the EEA. There is a very good cooperation, particularly with the Green Fund, which is working with them. The results of this cooperation have been seen first of all by many municipalities and many regions. We must agree - and I accept your suggestion - that we must take advantage of all the possibilities of being able to satisfy the list of all ten projects which have been selected at the moment. And much more so, that this particular refers to an area, Nafplio, which has its own special meaning, with its history and its great visitors, because of its history and beauty, to say things the way they are. We're watching it together, too, from the Ministry, so we can see what we can do better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Skourlet. The second question under number 808/19-4-2016, first question by the Member of Parliament, Eitolokarnania, of New Democracy, Konstantinos Karagunis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the increase in the number of importers in the pan-Hellenic exams for the academic year 2016-2017 from earthquake areas of the Prefecture of Eitolokarnania, is not being discussed. The fourth under number 802/19-4-2016 topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Finance, concerning “the loss of the one hundred-dollar adjustment due to the failure to inform the debtors of the new amount of the instalment after the increase in interest rate and the unilateral reduction of the amount of the instalment paid by the debtors in the banking account” is also not discussed due to lack of responsibility. The following questions will not be discussed as a result of a failure by the relevant ministers and will be redefined for discussion: The first under number 799/19-4-2016 top-level question of the first cycle of MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Iglezi to the Minister of Health, on the needs of the Technical Nephro Unit of the General Hospital of Halkidiki, which is not discussed due to a workload of the Deputy Minister of Health. The fifth under No. 801/194-2016 topical question for the first cycle of the MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning the removal of the titles from a hundred to twenty-three Greek families in the village of Dramadas of Chimara, is not discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who will be in Thessaloniki. The sixth under number 797/18-4-2016 top-level question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Union of Centres Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the risk of loss of funding by the European Union financial institutions for the assistance of refugees, is not discussed due to a workload of the Minister. The first under number 809/19-4-2016 topical question of the new Republic MP Rethymno Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on dealing with the immediate serious issues of the Rethymno Police Directorate and the building of a new police palace, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, who will be in Thessaloniki. The third, with number 805/19-4-2016, is a topical question by the MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Steerios to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning redundancies of workers in the company "Industrial Facilities Metal Construction S.A. (BEMECAP S.A.) which operates in Volos II Industrial Area, is not being discussed due to the unsuccessful obligations of the Minister. The eighth Question No 708/28-3-2016 by Mr Christos Stakouras, Member of Parliament, on the issue of the problems of the General Hospital of Lamia, is not debated as a result of an impediment - a workload - by the Deputy Minister of Health. The first question by MP Attica of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Health, concerning pharmacy hours, is not being discussed due to the miserable obligations of the Minister of Health. The ninth under number 663/15-3-2016 topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the participation of Greek businessman in the increase of the capital of Greek television channel and the delay of loans granted to the company "Gigas S.A.", is not discussed due to the absence of Minister Tsakalotou in Amsterdam. The eleventh question under number 775/11-4-2016 of the Independent Member of the European Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning ‘government co-financed by the arbitration of Community-funded public projects’ is not discussed due to the absence of Minister Spirtzi abroad. The second question under number 37844/267/8-32016 was asked and application for the submission of documents by MP 2 Athens of the River, Georgios Defyras to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the government's delay in the promotion of actions and the development of broadband by depriving 1.5% of GDP, is also not discussed due to the absence of Minister Spirtzi abroad. We move to the sixth Question No 785/12-4-2016 topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the re-entry of extracted land by PPC S.A. Mr. Vardalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you know - I imagine - that over two hundred thousand acres, expropriated on behalf of PPC to extract lignite and peat, minerals have been exhausted and no longer extracted. These territories, on the basis of environmental studies at that time, should be restored - which has so far been little done - and should be returned to the public on the basis of Law 1280/1982, without - I stress - in return. The problem, however, has its own story. In 2001, under Law 2941, the compulsory return of these territories to the public is abolished, rather than by accident at the present time. In 2014, L.4273, according to what the government argued at the time, the return of these territories to the public at the expense of the applicant for the declaration of expropriation is reintroduced. To date we have not started this process. But no acre has been returned to the public. I note that for this reason the Region of Western Macedonia is in court dispute with PPC S.A.. Minister, we're asking. What are you going to do first to restore these lands and return to the Greek State? You also ask whether, in the meantime, part of these territories or all of them have been used to obtain guarantees in favour of PPC, for example, registration of a mortgage or guarantee, and finally, if you are going to overthrow the entire liberalisation policy of the electricity sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too. Mr. Skourletis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, you ask many questions and specifically and more importantly in your question. Let's start with the last one. You should know that Greece is a member of the European Union, it follows the European Union's energy strategy, which provides for great changes in the energy market. This is a reality that we already have and from which no one can escape. The challenge is, how can you through this process of creating the new energy market, ensure access to the public goods of energy, freedom to do so in such a way that it is not at the expense of public property, public property, PPC, which in its own turn must understand that we are not in the '70s, '80s or '90s. This is precisely the effort of the current government, this is the effort of the current leadership of the Ministry, that is to say, to maintain a dominant position of PPC within a rapidly changing energy market. As you said before, by specific laws the obligation to return to the public the pieces of land that have been expropriated no longer exists. However, I would remind you that there have been compensation for these expropriations and many of them have been ordered by the court, i.e. it is not an arbitrary procedure. But there is certainly a problem as a whole for western Macedonia and there is a need for a more general planning, because it is an area that has suffered enormous intervention, it is the energy heart of our country, and in any case the state must make a design, which not only should heal the many times negative environmental footprints in this region but should go even further ahead and think about the post-living period, as we know, in the next few decades we will find ourselves in front of this reality. The strategy of fossil fuel decommissioning is also our strategy, while at the same time promoting energy from renewable forms and sources. So what I want to say to you is that what we do with the current administration of PPC, as the Ministry of Energy, is to see how first we can respond to the very specific issues that the wider region has. Last week I signed and sent the Presidential Decree on Pontokome. But it's not just Pontocoma. There are too many areas that are actually around bombed. There are environmental issues. However, we cannot see all this on a case-by-case basis, nor, of course, in a way that is irresponsible as the previous governments have seen, which were simply sucking off the land of western Macedonia. That's our design, that's our care. There is, therefore, a question of re-engagement of areas, but this must be done after a specific planning. There are areas which, although they remain the property of PPC, must be exploited in favourable terms by local society. This is to some extent done. There are areas that are currently rented, having been restored, for agricultural use. We are all concerned that these are all elements of a large project, not only for the Florina region but for western Macedonia as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister's answer confirms the fears of the Communist Party of Greece and the people of the region that the government no longer intends to do anything to return these lands to the Greek public and to exploit them for the benefit of the people of the region. Minister, in any case, you must provide an explanation. Why is there no way back? What's in the way? For example, are the laws that have been passed so far? So what? Can't you change them? Our fears are based, Minister, because that is not the main problem. That, if it were a problem, the government could solve it. The problem lies elsewhere. If one takes into account when the problem started, and why - in my prototype - I said that in 2001 the law had changed - it will see that then the liberalisation of the energy market and the relocation of PPC began. That is why it has changed and there is no excuse that because we are in the European Union, we must follow this road, and so we cannot do anything and we must manage a situation that has been imposed on us or which we want, in any case, to take part in it and we cannot give it another solution. The question, Minister, is this. Your government tells all tons that it will follow this anti-population policy, and in the energy sector, the liberalisation of the energy market, that is, just as the previous government did. You're telling us this. How within this difficult context we will look to keep the public character of PPC, IPTO, and more generally of the energy, holding 51% or controlling IPTO. But, Minister, life has proved - and this I think you will not disagree - that in the context of liberalisation of the energy market, the business groups operate on the basis of profit. In other words, any companies that exist operate on private economic criteria. I imagine you will be familiar with the Mytilene, Copeluzu, GEK TERNA, ELPE, EDISON and so on. These today have 45% of the total energy installed in our country. This is the case with the liberalisation of the energy market. 49% of PPC passed into private individuals. It is also planned to do so with IPTO. These are the winners of this policy of liberalisation of the energy market. They found a profitable way out, accumulated funds they had. After all, all the privatisations started this way. At first it was 0% or one share and 1% in public, then we gave 25%, after 49% and then they fully passed on to individuals. Remember what? OTE and other public enterprises? That is why, Minister, following exactly this policy, we have resentable increases in current, power cuts and energy poverty. When? In 2016, families of course cannot pay. We have a 40% reduction in staff in PPC today, flexible labour relations. That's why they've been established. That's why PPC passed large pieces to subcontractors, of course with hunger wages. In our view, there is a way out for the people, but the people themselves must fight, using all forms of struggle, claim it. To claim what? The complete abolition of all laws imposing the liberalisation of the energy market and of course in conflict with the European Union's policy, the monopolies and the bourgeoisie of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u28	And thank you. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. I think there has been a clear reference to my first speech that we do not deny the possibility of legislation, to see how they will return to the public specific pieces of land. But I repeat that this cannot be fragmented. Because, obviously, PPC is a company that is expanding, it is forced because of its activity to expropriate pieces of land, but this cannot be done in the bishop. Some of these must one way or another go back to the public, and that is what we intend to do. From there on, however, you have raised other issues relating to our electricity policy. It is, in fact, naive to think that in today's world, borders can be raised in the field of energy. At a time when pipelines, connections, completely transform the landscape and contribute to the security of the energy system, really, reading reality as it was twenty or thirty years ago, shows that you can't understand it and so you can't change it. We, therefore, had two political victories in this very tough negotiation that we started after September. First of all we managed to cancel the law on the privatisation of 66% of IPTO, people credit it to us and IPTO, electricity networks remain under public control and ownership and management. That's the truth to those who like it. At the same time, however, we are also actually canceling another law, the 'little PPC' project, the one who wanted to attack the Public Power Corporation and deliver it as - as with some alleged private competitors. So we are credited by this world and it sees what conflict today means on modern terms. This is the real conflict of interest today, and on this side we are with the world of work and the needs of the many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, too. The seventh question under number 755/5-2016 will be discussed at the time of the second question by the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, about the biomass power plants in the Municipality of Gortyna Heraklion Crete. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the context of the liberalisation of energy, on the basis of the European Union's energy strategy, as you said, which you are of course liberating it, in our view there is no good and bad liberation, just as there is no good and bad competition, as there is no good and bad profit, in capitalism profit is capitalist and if you have a different view, then that is really naive. But is it naive? Oh, no. Because we are observing - to come to this - that the interest in power groups with biomass fuel or biogas has increased, which is a real area of high profitability of large business groups, and on the contrary this liberalisation leads people to energy poverty. The General Secretary of Decentralised Administration of Crete, on 30-12-2014, gave the approval to the application submitted to the TENE by two companies for the construction and operation of two biomass recovery plants - the same investor, of course - where their distance is less than five hundred metres. We note that the Committee on Regional Planning in the regions concerned has given a negative opinion on this and also on other biomass plants in the same region. Justifiable, therefore, the inhabitants of Gagalon and Vallis in the Municipality of Gortina are protesting and even at the same time the investor comes in provocatively with an exterior to the municipality, which I will testify in the Minutes, of course, and is exalting, threatening, slandering anyone who does not agree with the investment and calls the inhabitants "true" and "fascist" because they react. A political solution must be given. The people are really willing to move forward to the end in order to be justified and I think they will be absolutely right. Why? Because they perceive - and other regions have the experience - that there will be a serious negative impact on agricultural production, the environment, their health and tourism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, let me have some time and I will finish. Why? Why, firstly, the area is characterised as a high-quality agricultural land, where any other activity outside it, as defined in Articles 9 and 7 of Law 3851/2010, is prohibited, although there are many common and ambiguities that are exploited by business groups. There are large areas of organic farming, which is certified by the Organic Agriculture Control and Certification Agency itself on 15-2-2016, which I will also submit in the Minutes. It is clear that this is a dangerous way of opening up the way for massive changes in the uses of land from productive crops with agricultural products that the people need. There are also gas pollutants and intense odours which will negatively affect, to an extent of a thousand metres, housing and crops, so that we have a deterioration in the lives of residents and agricultural products. Also, the project under study has been designed to process more than thirty thousand tonnes of biomass per year. The raw materials of the region, as identified in GDP, up to thirty thousand kilometres from the plant, are not sufficient to provide a stable supply, so the above unit is twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, all the seasons of time, which is one of the many conditions for the proper operation of the plant. In addition, biogas is produced by the anaerobic composition of pot, industrial waste and slaughterhouses. That means dirt and stench. Excessive gaseous pollutants such as micro particles, carbon monoxide, sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds and others will be emitted from combustion. In addition, there are falsified topographics from the company in the study, hiding the existence of a stream where the factory will be installed, which has diligently trampled and turned into a street. And proof of the falsification of the company's topographics are the maps of the army that clearly illustrate the existence of a stream. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It raises questions - and I conclude, Mr President - the fact that despite the fact that the building works had been stopped, the Technical Services Directorate of the Decentralised Administration, with an autopsy on 11-3-2016, has allowed the work to continue, apart from all the other things for the transport of heavy goods vehicles, which is likely to prove fatal for the underground networks and the hydraulic pressures that will be incurred by them through their transit. Of course, it's also a tourist area, Gortina, which I assume you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Synatiakis, please complete. You have your dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, I conclude with the question. There is one topic: Will you respect these popular reactions to make a specific political decision in order to cancel this decision of the Secretary-General of the Decentralised Administration? You are aiming and what measures you will take to stop overall the liberalisation of energy in the field of biomass exploitation and to cancel the approvals of the TEDO and the decentralised commands that have been given by solo until now to private enterprises and to Crete and all over the country. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u34	A little sooner, 'cause we have work to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u35	You see, the ministers are protesting because they have other jobs. So it is not a matter of the Bureau to be good or bad. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Let's not waste time. There are three issues which are raised by your question. One is a general point - you have said it in introductory terms - what we are doing toward the present dominant strategies. Here there is a completely different approach. In the dominant strategies you're trying to create the right power connections to change them as far as you can, because, if you're generally sitting at the end, side by side, and squeeze them, it's like you're watching the trains pass and salute them. So this conception of the Left, which sits on the side, is not our perception of how the Left should intervene at the current juncture. The second concerns biomass as such. Look, I see you have an enemy in this form of renewable energy. Are we going to encourage her? I say yes. And do you know what extra reason? Because this one, much more than photovoltaics or windmills, creates jobs and much more, because it also works detergents in relation to the area. He gets waste from pruning, from slaughterhouses. So he's doing a very big job. You disagree, for reasons of principle, with what is being done by the private sector. In other words, you are currently coming with your question in contrast to the thousands of people who have put a small photovoltaic on their roof, their field and the companies that have put wind parks. You disagree with that thing. You think that all this should be done through a strict state planning. That is something that he does not agree with us. So there is a need to promote renewable energy, and that is what we are trying to serve. But how? Emptying the distortions that existed. Because distortions have led to very heavy burdens on consumers themselves, all of us. And that's what we're trying to do. For the specific you are talking about at the moment, there has been a framework for some time since 1994, which defines precisely the conditions that such activities must fulfil in order to operate. This framework requires a great deal of improvement, updating and changes. For the first time since 1994, the current government has been trying - and it has now set up a committee - to be able to modernise and improve this framework. From there, however, the Municipality of Gortina should know how the things and the deadlines of legislation work. He should know that it is, as you said, the Decentralised Administration and not the Ministry, which has the power to grant authorisations. If he wanted to insult this licence, he had to do it and come to the ministry within 30 days and not a year later. I mean, honestly, that city authority's sensitivity over there I don't understand it. Because under the present circumstances there is no legal possibility of checking the correctness of the arguments of the Municipality of Gortina. This is the reality and please inform your area there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the Parliament, after having participated in the educational programme "Workery Democracy", thirteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 29th Municipal School of Peristeri. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there are indeed different approaches. You guys move in the Euro-Union frameworks. You have not questioned this policy. And there is one question, which all the other parties, precisely, are harmonized in this Euro-Union context. I do not know what it may have to do with the Left or what you have declared in the past, but, in any case, with the fight and now, but above all with the prospect that you have referred to the Monday Presence! We are not hostile to such activities. I'll tell you later. I'll tell you a little about the history of the case. Since January 2014, a hundred and twenty applications have been submitted for Crete for 65MW. In fact, I'm going to testify to this painting in the Minutes. Twenty - eight out of a hundred twenty applications related to the area of the Municipality of Gortina. The decentralised administration with concise procedures - Fast track - approved on December 30, 2014 - notice the date - nine of the eighteen applications - New Year's Eve, before the elections - and some of the others after the elections. In other words, these procedures were carried out as they were with the coup d'état of New Democracy - PASOK and with the coup d'état of SYRIZA - ANEL. You and the previous ones must apologise for this development. And it all became surprising. We will not apologise for the municipality's attitude. The Municipality of Gortyna has responsibilities too, of course. The municipal authority was reaging among the residents' reactions, when they learned it, and in their own views, to get the municipal shareholder into the investment too, thinking that this would overcome the economic suffocation as a result of the underfunding. So you realize that it's not that simple. However, it raises questions, because the operator has submitted two applications for a power of 499 MW, and could one. Do you know why? Because, on the one hand, 1000 MW would not take the decision, the approval by the decentralised administration, in addition to all other violations made by law, by civil law itself, namely, which favours this strategic perception and logic of liberation. So, rightly the residents disagree. But you didn't tell us what you were going to do. Will you allow the construction of the factory to continue with the operation of two units which are not even five hundred metres apart from each other when applications have been made - and others have been approved - by the decentralised administration? Finally, with regard to what the Communist Party of Greece says about these issues, we, Minister, do not arbitrarily demonise the risks, nor do we reject or suspect any scientific or technological approach to the processing method of raw materials. The other political or social forces turn their attention to technology and placement, considering the liberalisation of energy. We have set a tripartite and say that, of course, renewable energy sources must be exploited. We're not negative. But they must be exploited on one condition: to dial the three-way ownership, i.e. the funding and management body, technology, method and placement. Also, this trimester will also take into account the effect on humans and the environment. In the context of liberalisation of energy and with what I have told you about the region, does it take into account man and the environment? In no case. That is why we support the ownership issue, namely that the exclusive owner, the overall energy manager, from production to disposal and consumption, must be the socialised sector of the economy. This is precisely what we are supporting today, the total ban on any private business activity. We know that in Crete the goat is in very large quantities. We must manage all these issues of residues, but not under such conditions and conditions of liberation of energy, anarchy, really, and immunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Covenant. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I think you are indeed honest and revealing, because you are about to say that we could use these forms of energy in socialism. Until then, we see. Because if the market is liberalized, then this form of energy is bad. Of course, there is something else coming to my mind. Then, in the 1980s, when your space was trying to convince us that nuclear energy is harmless and after the Chernobyl accident, you invited people to eat cabbage. So you realise that environmental protection also has a transitional value. Environmental protection is about today and tomorrow, life on this planet. And these are some great truths. And the Left must embellish them in its own strategy, the modern left. Because you spoke about the Euro-Union framework and what the Left does, do you know what the Left is doing? Since SYRIZA came out last January to the government, see the map, see the big picture. It is the Left, which participates in all forms in the government in Portugal. They are the Neptunes in Spain, which is the great hope of changing the correlations. These, of course, concern the modern left, the grounded left and not the left, which is on the side. Now, what are we going to do about this case? We will do what legality imposes on us and what the law and current environmental legislation say, at least until it improves, which I told you we are already doing and we are trying to do. In order not to say that we have a single attitude towards this, I would therefore tell you that only last week in the Ministry we obtained the authorization of a corresponding biogas plant in Tripoli. But that was where the people had moved much earlier, they appealed to the S.H.E. and the Minister has the opportunity to annul until the S.H.E.'s trial. the specific authorisation. So that is what I say, so that we can, if we want, really contribute to the effectiveness of the movement and not make reasons, which simply create impressions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u41	Like Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, too. We enter the tenth under number 771/11-4-2016 a topical question by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the “energy future” of the Florina Prefecture. Please, Mr Antoniadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I'm going straight into this because I don't have much time. Minister, the case of Florina is a classic case of the Latin American countries. The Florinots live on a wealth of billions, this wealth spreads throughout Greece and the inhabitants are poor and unemployed. You know that the region of western Macedonia is in the three richest regions of Greece, because energy generation is being charged there. We have an increased per capita income and, essentially, this is all fictitious. The result is to lose millions from the ESRB, lose thousands of positions from the programmes to combat unemployment, lose percentage of the subsidy to development law and all this, without any one's fault. Also, PPC, as you know very well, grants electricity to the islands with over 700 million and it does well. It subsidizes and contributes to hundreds of thousands of our fellow humans in the social invoice. The tragedy, however, is that it grants all Greece, because the current from Florina, to reach Athens, from 5 minutes the kilowatt now costs 15 minutes and in Crete 55 minutes. The only areas which are not subsidised are those which produce electricity. So what do we say? For all these injustices, for which both my predecessors and the tropical rulers have responsibilities, because they have never shown this, and no Minister should have known about it, we say two things: the region wants free electricity, namely households, farmers, businessmen. For farmers and businessmen, over a percentage, 50% will be provided. For the positions which we are losing from the programmes to combat unemployment, PPC will receive a thousand two or eight months annually, while unemployment is more than 10%. Someone has to make up for these things, which we lose unfairly. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, take me away time from dentistry. These two are very basic, Mr Minister, because I tell you that I do not mention the others. Tourism is affected by the furnaces and all these craters. What tourist will come to see the beauty when these craters are in front of him and in summer do we have the Sahara windstorm? It is also a matter of agricultural production. What products under the chimneys and next to the mines will be sold to consumers? I come to the questions: we want, Minister, clean answers or, in any case, what are you going to do with the mines in the region? The Key tomorrow can be opened. What about Bey? What about the Lakkaki lignite mines and, of course, what about the Achlada lignite mines, which I shall say in dentistry? Also, two very important questions are: What about AUS Meliti 2? Is it the Ministry's plans to go ahead with the building? What about the AUS of Amynteios Philotas, which you see stop, turns off? It's a costly process, since it's a minimum function. Finally, is there going to be a wet rehab?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u44	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u45	Mr Antoniadis, I listened with great interest to your request for free electricity in western Macedonia. I would like you to present it to your President, to adopt it by New Democracy, after telling us why he has not done so many decades and to discuss it. It's a new proposal. In any case, let us be somewhat more serious about the real and acute problems of the region. First of all, in relation to the unemployed, you know that there are the criteria for locating the octamenis taken by PPC. It's important that this system is not diagnosed. To break these systems, which were in direct connection with the political system of the region, which was linked to the former two major parties of bipartisanism, which controlled the way and who would go to these eight months. Therefore, there must be: transparency, clear terms and fair procedures. Second, you're talking about the Key and Bey. The use of these deposits is in direct relation to the total energy demand and the planning of PPC. It is not just a question of opening holes to open up when this - as you know very well - is a case which has a strong environmental footprint. Therefore, once it is sustainable to exploit these lignite mines, it is obviously within a medium- and long-term planning. But when you see that, because of the recession in recent years, we have a decline in energy demand, we will obviously not make any moves that will lead to PPC's bankruptcy, which will, in turn, transfer its financial problems to the invoices that you and I pay. You understand that. And I imagine that you, who are from the area of full market defence and its logic, must count on these things. So it is important that we have reliable and cheap services toward the world. As far as I am concerned, since December, there has been a specific convention. But what are the terms of this contract? What does it cost to PPC? How can the ore finally be productive in there? Or are we going to do the gift of various big-workers? What kind of local interests are there? For all this, there is a need for discussion. The last week and the next week I had two meetings with the Municipality of Florina, the Labour Center and the representatives of the company, and the week after Easter we will meet with the administration of PPC, to see exactly these issues, primarily related to the Achlada mine. You see, then, that it is not enough simply to put a reflection on the debates, but it is important to see the overall picture and take firm steps. PPC is in a curve right now, precisely because of changes in the field of energy and must stand on its feet. You say, for example, about Melite 2. Obviously, Melite 2 has to be. But, this must be combined with the replacement of other old powered and derelict, outdated units. So you can't tell me both Amyntheus and Melite 2. Isn't that right? You know that each unit, depending on how old it is, has a corresponding efficiency and a corresponding burden on the environment. But the burden on the environment is not generally vague. It's costing. There are certificates of pollutants from releases of carbon dioxide. So all of these parameters you, who are a Member of Parliament from the region, must first of all consider them when you are asking questions. We are therefore interested in PPC and maintaining its public character and having such a strategy in the context of market liberalisation, so that it remains strong. This can be done by rationalising its operating costs and modernising its operating mode but also by developing a strategy for participation by other actors in new investment. Through such an approach we see Melite 2, which we will actually allow it to resist the proposals of barbaric neoliberalism, such as small PPC, which your party has voted for and fortunately the movement and SYRIZA have been banished in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Antoniadis, how long do you need for your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u47	I've been waiting for months to meet with the Minister, and I want understanding, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u48	I'll give you two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u49	Not two minutes! You've been in three minutes for all of us. We've been waiting here for hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u50	They protest ministers who want to leave!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, today I am the only neo-democrat. We have the conference, you put me last, they spoke to all the parties, and now you're cutting my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u52	I didn't put you last. That's the show.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u53	Minister, first of all, I will not apologise for the previous governments. People voted against them. You're the ruler today. Secondly, you should know that I am one of those who also election and post-electionally disagreed on the issue of small PPC, to be clear with you. Third, I didn't tell you to take the place of the company or PPC. I'm just asking what you're thinking. And I'm not in favour of PPC's activities either. If PPC is to behave as a colony in the area, collect it today and leave, take the chimneys and mines. We are clear, because people can live from tourism and from the farm, but we want to know what is going to happen. And I will give you the final example, which has made us over rivers and is the attitude of the President. PPC President Panayotakis operates as a ruler in the region. He's got a property concept, he thinks we're insane, and I'm afraid you too. He thinks he is the sole representative of PPC, when we have given all this wealth to support PPC. And the most basic thing you know what it is? We don't want anything. The government will make the decision. We need information, we need dialogue and consultation. For months we have been asking for a meeting with Mr Panayotakis and he refuses and announces his decisions from PPC. Is that behaviour? Does it not offend the democratic customs of both your region and your government? Neither are we asking you to take a certain position in favour of one or the other. We want information and we want dialogue. Tell us what you're thinking. If you do not think and it is not in the interest to act, ask PPC to collect them and leave. Otherwise, if he remains active, these compensatory amounts are not without, Minister. Jobs, free electricity are something that the region deserves. Otherwise, let's get them together and go. That is our view. I'm hanging up with a single thing. We want dialogue and consultation to know what the government thinks, nothing more, nothing less.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fourteen students and students and three educational sessions from the 8th Xanthi Gymnasio. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] At the same time, New Democracy MP Christos Stagiras seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad to attend a scientific conference of the University of South California in Los Angeles, United States. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u55	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, and Mr Antoniadis, when you refer to the need for public consultation and dialogue and ask this government, you are certainly on the right track, because, contrary to the practices of the previous governments, we do believe - and we have done so in every way - that we have consulted and debated with local bodies. And I spoke to you before about very specific meetings that have been held and about the one to be held.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u57	And should parliamentarians not participate?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u58	And the MPs. It's not all the MPs, it's a place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u59	We didn't get an invitation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u60	And the MPs. We're not bypassing you, Almond! From there, however, because you have spoken of rewards, you know about the resource already in existence and paid for decades. So why don't you mention that? In fact, as far as I know, there are also balances in the accounts, which the municipalities have not gone to disbursement to make use of. But beyond that, you know something else. In a message I sent to a conference held by the Municipality of Kosani about fifteen days ago - if I'm not mistaken - I said that we are studying the issue of the tariff for the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u61	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u62	Note, however, that the special invoice should have a target not only of relief at this stage, but also of how it will be a development tool and see the post-linguistic period. So great discounts in commercial and productive activities and not discounts on activities that have no future and prospects! So, that's what I want you to bring us here. Because you obviously experience the problems firsthand, the opinion of those who live there is of special value. So I think she's useful, so we can do what? - what we said before and in the previous questions, an overall plan for western Macedonia that will not only see today, but tomorrow. I think that very soon we will be able to present such an overall plan, which will also cover the specific issues that you have raised, regarding the exploitation of existing mines. It will also include the issue of industrial relations, which is very important, the relief of the very high unemployment that exists in the region, and which will see the post-linguistic period. And obviously, at the same time, it will form a new investment project for PPC, which is not, as we said before, the giant of the 1970s, but certainly, with the proper design, can be an energy-saving operation in other areas than energy. So all this is on the table and we accept and discuss the creative proposals. It is only good every time to remember the responsibilities of the former and to have courage and imagination to see what we are doing from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, too. We continue with the fourth under the number 804/19-4-2016 top cycle question of the first cycle of the Member of the Ionian Parliamentary of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problems of the operation of the Epirus TEI from the lack of teaching staff and equipment. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Anagnastopoulou. Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, we are coming today with a new question about the huge problems facing the Epirus TEIs in Arta. These are problems arising from the lack of teaching staff, equipment, as well as the feeding and housing of students there. Just about the same issues a few days ago, we had a question about the schools of the University of Patras based in Agrini. All this is the result of the huge cuts and the strangulation of budgets in the country's higher institutions. And there are these issues, as I said before, feeding, housing, writings and so on. In particular, however, at the Epirus TEI in Arta, problems are explosive from the lack of teaching staff. The five posts, which - I think - were last given to the TEI do not cover at all the major needs. For example, the shortcomings, with this organogram in the TEI, touch forty. And next year or in the coming years at least, according to the information we have, twenty-five teachers with pensions will leave. Of course, there is another regime there that tries to function, the status of university scholars. According to a 2011 law, L.4009/2011, the money for the payment of this educational staff must be saved by the TEI. This concerns us very strongly, as we have to set up a trap or obviously there will be participation of the students. We've stressed it many times. The policy you are following opens wide opens the doors so that the private sector can enter the institutions of the country. And we have examples. Already at the TEIs of Epirus there are large businesses in the area that have entered there. In particular, as far as certain schools are concerned, your hypocritical interest in the development of the primary sector is also apparent. The Animal Production School is literally under dissolution, in a country where we have huge deficiencies and negative balance in the livestock sector from the huge import of such products. The question is clear. What measures will you take to ensure that there is sufficient funding to enable these institutions in the country to function? We told you last time. We say it now and we will say it every time our question concerns such matters. What measures will you take to ensure that there are student homes and regular feedingstuffs so that no one is cut off from the feeding and no financial criteria are in respect of the feeding cards? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President. Of course, there is also a problem of seriousness at the Arta TEI with the Traditional Music Department, which is essentially a subordinate. Proof of this was the major mobilisations of students and institutions in the region, which took place in the previous period and will be made in the next period. In all this, Minister, give concrete answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u65	You're welcome. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, we discussed the same subject the other day. I want to ask something really, with a surprise about this picture of the destruction you are constantly describing and this self-esteeming prophecy, that our Government is going to privatise the highest institutions. So I ask one thing: After six years, within a few months, five hundred IGC members were assigned to the institutions. You can't see, you don't mention it anywhere, you get past it like this. You keep talking, you're now talking about the Epirus TEIs that they took five positions. TEIs got a total of thirty - six places. I'm not saying it's the best possible. We've held another five hundred seats that we'll give until September. However, when no permanent staff were assigned for six years, and suddenly, within the minimum space, five hundred plus two hundred additional intakes of special scientific staff - especially TEIs have a great need for them, because they have laboratories - when we have taken up a further fifty TEI members plus thirty-five teachers for TEIs, you see the total catastrophe. For these specific Epirus TEIs, I will not mention here what happened before the Athens Plan, the mergers and the abolition of divisions, what we received. Let go. What we received we're working on. However, I would like to say that the system we have implemented was the proportion of teachers and teachers, in order to share the positions of permanent staff and to see the needs of the institutions. The Epirus TEIs are not at the best location, but they're not at the worst. Unfortunately, the TEIs had a pathogen in terms of the absorption of the positions given to them, they did ten years for a election and they differ greatly from the universities. Our aim was not to pull the universities down to come to a balance with the TEIs, but to slowly bring the TEIs up. I will tell you that in the most difficult position - and I tell you, because I have looked at it - it is the Western Macedonia TEIs, it is the Central Macedonia TEI and the Western Greece TEI, which also happens to be my constituency. For the Epirus TEIs from the positions they have taken, at least one for each department that has the TEI. I will say briefly - and I will return to my dentistry - that in feeding and housing there is an attempt by your party to raise students up that they are not fed and do not dwell. Not a minute has passed since the student's feeding and housing. And at the Epirus TEI, with the data that they gave us, the TEIs themselves and that we do not make to enjoy the situation, all students are fed and their shelter is covered. In fact, the Public Expenditure has now asked for the renovation of XENIA in Igoumenitsa for another forty or fifty beds. I don't remember right now. I have the evidence here. In this respect, therefore, you say about feeding and housing or equipment, which gives us the TEI itself, or about courses that are covered and made normally, I cannot understand this image of destruction you are constantly describing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u67	Thank you. Mr Moraite, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u68	Madam Minister, the disaster isn't brought by us. It is the policy that you have followed in the field of education. And because Mr Skourletis too, but you, too, are being forgotten by anti-communism, we have to tell you this. We want to derail it from anti-French politics, while you take it with a thousand tracks of policy that serves monopolies. I never mentioned for a hundred and thirty-four places in the TEI. What I said is that at the Epirus TEI in Arta there are five positions when the shortcomings are forty and will increase much more. I would therefore like you to answer the specific questions that we ask you. Of course, with regard to what you are saying, such as feeding and housing, they are issues solved, I would like to say that there is the answer of the students themselves and their families who are actually mobilised on a daily basis. I told you the other day that we are not making it out of our minds and away from us, the danger. We are stepping on the real problems faced by working people's families. We told you that the food given by private restaurants is a little, while qualitatively it is not good. That's not a risk, but it's a reality. And I tell you that I personally - because I am from the region of Western Greece - on tours I have actually seen the student protest. We don't make it out of our minds, Minister. With regard to the situation that students are experiencing in Arta, but also throughout the country, it has the same policy as the working people's families. Especially when we report to you that they've invaded businessmen at these schools, you should know they're not lying. We tell you specifically and nominally. For example, in the TEI of Arta the multinational "BIKI" has entered. Answer us if it's a lie! Is "BIKI" involved?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u69	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u70	Please! The Minister understands what I mean. The shareholder of "BIKI" is a member and I do not know if he is also a chairman of the board of directors. So all this is a lie? Is what we mentioned, that this staff of university scholars, according to Athena Plan, will be paid through the Foundation itself? Of course, the way is not mentioned, but I think it is obvious. We are clearly saying that this is a state of affairs and that there should be a case of the folk and student movement itself and of their families. They should really fight for public and free health at all levels, for health and education that will serve people's needs. In particular in these schools, we really have to fight, because our sense - and I hope we will be disproved - is that we will be closing down some schools. And I specifically mentioned the Department of Traditional Music. Why isn't he assigned, Minister? It is currently falling short of a lack of staff, and we are saying that we have a burden, as you say, on cultural tradition and heritage and on the region of Epirus. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I would like to say this. We say that a policy that serves the people's needs conflicts in this way that you are following today. That is why we call - and we say clearly - on students to fight for another policy, which will focus on it, and most importantly on the subject of graduates and jobs. They won't take diplomas that will be passports to unemployment. They will receive education and training in which they can really offer their own people's needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr. Moraite. Here, Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u72	First of all, I would like to respond to your first criticism, which said that I and Mr Skourletis are anti-communists. If we disagree with you, it doesn't mean we're anti-communists. I hope you can understand that. Secondly, I never said - and you know it! - that this situation in institutions is the best possible. But I am going to stink up all the time that this government is fighting to stop the catastrophe it had started for institutions. It is not possible to see that within a few months there has been an attempt to change the turn that had taken things. As to whether private companies are entering the institution councils - which we do not want and are constantly accusing of having them - I would like to tell you that, as you know very well, the institutions have self-interest and autonomy. Each minister cannot intervene every three or a few minutes. The Ministry is obliged to offer what it has to offer and, of course, to do the legislative arrangements. And for some of these phenomena you're here and we'll see the following. Thirdly, for the five places you are still going on and telling about the Epirus TEIs, I tell you that they have a better ratio than other TEIs and the next five hundred positions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u73	Is that an answer? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Moraite, please! Don't have a dialogue and a debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Comrade, please. It cannot be solved within five months, six months or one-and-a-half year, a problem that has been created for six years, and especially at TEIs - please listen to me, because I fear you are not listening - which had another way of running from universities and were not hiring those who should be elected. Because we see major discrepancies - already before the crisis - in relation to the universities and proportions of teachers - taught. For the Department of People's Music you are right, I have been with those responsible and we have found a solution, which will be immediately announced and upgraded. Because I happen to have colleagues who are excellent in this department and will not be degraded, they will hardly be upgraded. Finally, for feeding and housing, our government has never said it is the best possible. However, the fact is that we have not cut the budget at all, while it has been cut off from the institutions' budget, which we are certainly trying to heal over the next few days and you will hear how to heal it. However, having already found arrangements with PPC and RAE and trying to find now with the municipalities, we have reduced the operational expenses of the institutions in feeding and housing. I am not saying that it is the best possible in these circumstances, but we are trying not to cut a minute off from feeding and housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u76	Thank you. We move to the second with number 807/19-4-2016 topical question by Hercules Iraklios of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKEN KEGROGlou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the exclusion of the municipalities, under the ten thousand inhabitants of the "Centres Community" programme. Please, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. In these days, evidence has been announced and it seems that at the same time, the numbers seem to prosper, continue the great problem for thousands of families in our country and will continue by indicating to all of us and, above all, the Government that the social protection system must be strengthened, so that it is more effective to deal with the problems for people of course, belonging to the vulnerable, vulnerable and vulnerable groups, for people who experience the crisis more strongly, either through poverty or through particular problems. The community centres, established by the government by the law, which we voted here in the House, can support this effort, despite any problems that can exist and will always exist. But there is one disadvantage, and that is the subject of our question, because according to the Ministry's communications, community centres do not concern small towns below 10,000 inhabitants. The purpose of the question is to demonstrate the need for a contact point for municipalities under ten thousand regardless of whether a programme is being implemented or implemented by a neighbouring municipality, which will also cover this region. This is because throughout the Greek territory and especially in the mountains, in the less-favoured and in the islands there are people. The purpose is to support the man and not the municipality. So what I ask the Minister is that the government extend to the municipalities of less than ten thousand people the programme, in the sense of having a contact point and two people, two partners be able to welcome, inform and assist the people of the small municipalities, belonging to sensitive and vulnerable groups, to join and benefit from the programmes, which either are today or will be created tomorrow, using national and European resources. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u78	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u79	Mr Kegeroglu, first of all, I am pleased that you have referred, indirectly but clearly, to the surplus that this government has achieved within a difficult period of time, which had all of it, and capital controls and a refugee crisis huge and so on. This surplus of 1.2 billion was achieved within a year, which you, your party, but especially the New Democracy, described as a year of catastrophe for the Greek economy and at the same time as proof of a government which did not know how to govern and was incapable. It seems that this incompetent government is doing better, at least in this area. But let me go to your question, which is very essential and which, in fact, gives me the opportunity to clarify something that seems to be unconscious. We have not ruled out the municipalities below ten thousand inhabitants. And you, who are experienced and were before this position, which I am today, are well aware that there is no such thing in the joint ministerial decision published. On the contrary, we urged the regions, which were not willing at the beginning to create all this multitude of community centres, which you know yourself how important a tool will be in social policy. And it's something New Democracy voted against on purpose. In other words, he voted against the only tool that could do what society today needs, community centres. We do not just exclude it, but I have the pleasure to say to you: 13 municipalities have already joined under the ten thousand inhabitants in the regional plans. Because, as you know, Mr Kegeroglu, if the municipalities and regions do so, they automatically fall within their operational programmes and their budgets, because the money comes from thirteen regions and not from the government. The only thing we have done is to encourage the regions all the time - with exhaustive dialogue - finally to integrate this policy. There are already thirteen municipalities. In my dentistry, I'm going to tell you what else, very important we can do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u80	Thank you. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u81	I, Mr President, am glad that Mrs Fotio has used the same argument that the previous government used when presenting a surplus in 2013 and 2014. This is a development. It may be a development that will lead to some understanding. However, it is not a matter of taking up numbers. The previous government, therefore, had given 500 million of that surplus, in a certain way - good, bad, - to poor families. You can tell us in your dentistry of 1.2 billion, of which you told us, how much you will give and what programmes. I didn't make any criticisms. You've come out and made a speech about your achievements in numbers. Now let's get to the point. The Ministry with a press release - unless I am mistaken and it was statements which have been misinterpreted - refers to the creation of community centres in the two-five largest municipalities with over ten thousand inhabitants. Is that true? It is. On the basis of this, therefore, I think that the Ministry should start with the small municipalities, especially the mountains and islands that need to be supported. And it is a pity that the Minister responsible for the island policy and the President, who is from the Dodecanese, are here. They come to the Island Commission from the small municipalities and you know what they're telling us? I will tell you what Mayor Kassou said to us: “I have received. Twenty-two organic positions are foreseen. He's an employee. And I make the lieutenant, I make the plumber, the administrative officer and everything.' Small municipalities have a huge problem. And I am not talking about a municipality of Heraklion, Vianno, which has a road connection, but I am referring to the islands. Is it so difficult to understand that there must be a contact point for the respective programme? It'll be better for the program as well. So my request is this: I will report to you - there are also the President here who knows well - some municipalities: Karpathos, Kassos, Halki, Symi, Tinos, Nissyros, Agathonisi, Leipzig, Antypalia, Patmos, Leros. It's just from your county, Mr. President, from the Dodecanese Regional Unit. These municipalities, in order to be able to support the populations belonging to these groups, should be supported with two persons, just as the other municipalities managed on the basis of the community centres' programme. So not whatever regions they want to integrate, etc. We decentralised 20% of resources in the regions. You continue - quite rightly - to implement the programmes through this money in the same direction. But we won't let them give up if they want to put Kasso on. Excuse me. Two people must be at the Centre for the Community of Kasos to support the people there. So what am I asking? If the issue of the thousands of four hundred, which you have announced, relates to the two hundred fifty municipalities, namely, from ten thousand to over, add another hundred fifty - that is the whole story - that is, a thousand fifty-five - so that two employees are in every municipality, which is also the point of contact, whether they implement the programme themselves or not, which will cover the people in the region. Their value and importance, particularly in these remote regions, in the islands and in the mountain regions, will be multiplier. It is now known that whenever we make decisions, we must take special care of the islands and mountain areas, as required by the Constitution. Of course, even if the Constitution did not say so, it is the right logic. So let us start from these municipalities and do not leave it to the regions, whether they want to or not. This is a direction that will also be ensured by the increase of fifty people working in this programme. That is the purpose of the question and the issue of the surplus came as an incidental matter because you mentioned it. If you're ready to tell us, of course, how much money will be used, it'll be good. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. As you have referred to the Bureau, I must tell you that, as you know, the Constitution in Article 101(4) expressly states that, when they act regulatoryly, the joint legislator and the administration are obliged to take into account the particular circumstances of island and mountain regions, while ensuring that they do. This article, unfortunately, does not invoke it either by local government, because they are trying through parliamentarians - whatever government, today or the previous one - to bring their demands. This article says that they are obliged to take care of themselves. So, in the spirit of this - and I call for this to be addressed to Mrs Fotou - it is good for every law which refers to ten thousand inhabitants, for island regions to be excluded or for there to be a threshold of less than ten thousand. Then it is according to the Constitution, if he said, for example, a figure of less than ten thousand. So, within this context - you understand that, Mrs Fotio - you can function.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u83	Of course, of course. I shall reply, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u84	You have the floor, Mrs. Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, it seems that you have not listened to me too. There was nowhere, in any legislative framework, blockade, there was no provision to say that they would not be taken into account, that we would not have Community centres in the municipalities of less than ten thousand. Alas. I said again - but to MP Heraklion likes not to hear what I'm saying - that we tried in every way - to persuasion, because we have no other way for the district managers, it's not SYRIZA's district managers - to convince them...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u86	The two hundred and fifty, did I tell them? You announced two hundred fifty.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u87	No, Mr. Kegeroglu. You've confused it. What we did was convince them to do Community centres. They wanted to make seventy in the tracussians twenty - three municipalities. This was done with a lot of trouble. And the regions said, at least to ensure...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u88	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u89	We promise we'll make you two hundred and fifty-four...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u90	Madam Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u91	The regions have said. There's nothing you're saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u92	Where is it optional?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u93	Sit down, though! The Greek people will hear the truth. He won't hear your truth! We are here, as a government, 'killed' to make this institution, will you also ask us for the change?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u94	Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u95	From where all previous NSRFs made them cut and sewn in your clientele relationships, will you ask us for the change that we are trying to make an institution across Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u96	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u97	Will you ask us for the change because we even managed to join eighteen municipalities so far? And now we are in the process, Mr President, where we draw the invitation to the regions. The invitation's ready. On Monday we have a great meeting at the Ministry with all the regional directors and with all the presidencies of the CENs, the regions, so that everyone can be aware of how they will make the request, how they will make the invitation. We give them a special guide. We got them ready. No one's gonna do it on his own, with his advisers, so that he and the other municipality can get it out of the way. Nobody! We'll make sure they're settled. Until we make them the technical cards, we intend that all municipalities can equally. That is why, at the moment, Mr President, we call on the regions to incorporate into their budgets all the small municipalities and especially the islands of Greece, as we have repeatedly told them or to take another man into their own municipality and to take him away from the small municipality, from the neighbouring municipality, so that it works there. And that's what we've done. If it's in mainland Greece, it can be with mobile units or seconded personnel. The regions and municipalities know all about this, because the NSRF is the first to become transparent. As far as money and the primary surplus are concerned, I have to say that at the moment the government for the pilot project of the minimum guaranteed income or as we say'social solidarity income', which will open up to seventy thousand people in thirty municipalities, has already registered 80 million euros plus the 20 million euros that existed for entry into pillar III. At the same time, the implementation of the humanitarian crisis law will be opened for the rest of the municipalities again, so that the whole country will be covered with a first plan for 2016. In 2017 this government will put 900 million to implement the'social income of solidarity' throughout the country. All the others may be pleasant things for opposition, but ultimately who really cares about the weak strata of the country and what has been struck by the crisis that you have created with your wrong policies, bringing a memorandum first and a memorandum second, which we have been destroyed today by the Greek people very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u98	And a third disastrous memorial.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, would you like to continue with this? We can. If Mr. Kegeroglu has the free time...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Kegeroglu, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u101	I'm asking you a real question, and you're answering not to say how.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Kegeroglu, according to the Rules of Procedure, we stop here. For addressing you, Minister, and to me, I answer that I have listened carefully to you and have neither charged you - God intent. But what I said - as you said, 'the region can do this and that' - is instead of the law saying ten thousand, saying a little further downwards so that it doesn't give...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u103	It's not the law. There's no law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u104	It's the Ministry's announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u105	Announcement. Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u106	There's no law. Three times I've answered it. That's not what you understand. Because when you hear Mr. Kegerolgu...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u107	Did I say it was the law?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u108	...he's more convincing. He thinks there's a lukewarm. There's no...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u109	Mrs. Fotius, because you've misunderstood it with lies, I didn't say that the law says so, because we voted for the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u110	Please! Please! Let's stop here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u111	Did I say it was the law?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u112	Don't yell.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u113	We voted for the law, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u114	Please stop here. Mr. Kegeroglu...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u115	Don't make me lazy. Don't give me no laniers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u116	We voted for him, too. Okay? We didn't say the law mentioned it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u117	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu and Mrs. Minister, stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u118	I said it's the Ministry's announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u119	That is not a parliamentary reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u120	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u121	You're welcome. Next is the twelfth under number 749/5-2016, a topical question for the second cycle of MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Kouzilos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the establishment of an Academy of the Port Body. Mr. Kouzele, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, if this were to happen with the Golden Dawn, half the guardium would have come in to get us out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u123	Mr President, if this were to be done by the Golden Dawn, they would say that we are making a coup in democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u124	I do not think that I, as President-in-Office, have ever made such a comment on you. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u125	Others have done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u126	But you're talking to me now. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, Minister, the Port House continues to face serious subsistence problems. It would contribute in the right direction to the creation of an Academy of Port Authority in the context of the operation of the productive schools of the Armed Forces or the Hellenic Police. The Academy of the Port Body, which is a constant request from associations and all the members of the Port Body, has always been in the planning of the Ministry's respective leadership. Let me remind you of the characteristics of the New Democracy, Mr Varvitsiotis, who said, "We have been informed and will look into the matter, we will see it," and nothing has happened at all. And you personally were informed a few days ago by the PES and committed yourself to the creation of the Port House Academy and all the issues of education and retraining related to the Port Body. The entry of candidates into the Academy will be carried out exclusively by means of pan-Hellenic examinations aimed at ensuring full transparency in recruitment and institutional preservation of the support of the Port Authority with staff per year. I would like to remind you here - you know very well - that you had asked a question on this issue - and that is why there is this topical question, because there is now your commitment to the PES - to the Ministry of Shipping in October 2013, Minister Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, on recruitment in the Port House. Then you talked about a total lack of objectivity and dignity. And then you had accused and spoken, yelled, said, as SYRIZA, of the recruitments made in the Port House. I think it's time for you to solve this problem right now. And the question is very simple: When and where? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u128	Before I give you the floor, Minister, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House is organised, thirty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd private high school "Madulides" Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me, before I answer the honourable Member's question, to make a comment. A moment ago, the House, even in the limited presence of Members, experienced an incident which was deeply insulting it, a caffeine inspirational behaviour of a Member of Parliament is supposed to control the government. The Member should be expelled from the Chamber. We're all over the frame sometime through irritation. This could happen. I'm not a judge. However, leaving his post and coming to abus the Minister in front of you, that is unacceptable. You should have ordered his miscarriage from the Chamber!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u130	Mr. Drizza, I'll interrupt you, excuse me. I stopped the sitting at that time, gave the floor to the honourable Member and proceeded to the sitting. From there on, the debate has now taken place. Nothing has been written in the minutes of the House. I can't be the MP's officer. You understand that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u131	Obviously, Mr President, it is the Member's responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u132	Yeah, if there was a meeting of mine. I went ahead with the meeting. If there was a meeting, then it would be my responsibility that I didn't do what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, it is obviously the Member's responsibility. I understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u134	But the conversation between MPs or ministers cannot be made up of me. You understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u135	Obviously, the responsibility lies with the Member and I understand your due diligence and the attempt to understand things, but I note that this behaviour, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House, provides: Abortion directly from the Chamber. This is not a personal tip to you. I say this, however, in order to be aware of the size of the Member's behaviour and its content. From there on, because my name has also been mentioned in the debate, Minister Fotou has given a great deal of answers, but by the way - and you have rightly referred to the constitutional provision for islands and mountainous areas - we are on the right track to implement the Isle of Insularity clause. And with the initiatives of the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Mr Gianneli and the Ministry of Education and myself personally, but also at the initiative of the President of the Parliament, Mr Voutsi, and the Bureau, we are on the right track to ensure that there is now sufficient mechanisms and procedures to ensure that the island clause and the clause on mountain areas in the legislative work are now a reality in Parliament's day-to-day operation. I hope that the next period will speed up its launch, because it has already started as it should have been a long time ago. I am now going to the point, to the question. Indeed, this question does not have any time-consuming information within the meaning of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. However, I - and I have also asked a previous question, which I have answered on the same subject - will deal with it - and we are dealing with it at the Ministry as a matter of continuing urgency. Because, in fact, this issue has been discussed by the Ministry officially since 2003 and several proposals have been examined at times. I can't answer that because in the past other governments have not gone ahead with it. In any case, however, from our side of SYRIZA, it is a programme of commitment to the establishment of the Academy and to the conduct of import tests at the productive schools of the Port House through pan-Hellenic examinations. It's a programme commitment. It is a commitment to the programme statements in this House and we have not forgotten it, we have moved on from the first moment and we are in the process. The subdelegation you mentioned in the question is not linked to this issue. The sub-station concerns the shrinking of the organic positions imposed by the previous PASOK and New Democracy government, with the horizontal reduction of organic positions in all ministries and security bodies and in the Port Corps, where from ten thousand and fifty-six that were the organic positions in the Port Authority were reduced to about eight thousand after 26-11-2013. It was the decision of the Government Reform Council. We are trying systematically - and we are doing so - to cover all the empty organic positions, even the reduced limit set by this option. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] That is why we have also made progress through the consolidation and re-establishment of justice for exams that have been carried out in the past - and which we had really criticised many times - in restoring the ability of people who had a high score in the examinations, namely those who were involved. Right now we have a hundred and eight signatories ready to graduate in June, a hundred eighty-four officers, also ready to graduate. It is currently, in the final phase, the competition for forty-nine port guards, which has first become such a competition with such transparency conditions both through ASP and with the presence of ASP. Of course, we will proceed to 2016 and to others from two hundred to eighty twenty new porters. And that will be a very valuable and as much as possible guarantee of transparency. Now, because I'm running out of time, I'm going to go into details of our programming for the pan-Hellenic exams and the establishment of the academy in my dentistry. I am saying right from the outset that we are moving in this direction in line with our programme commitments, but also with the needs, because it is an overtime issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kouzeli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u137	To return to the previous issue, as Mr Dritsa mentioned, and to say that last week a regulation was passed, there must be some sanctions. So, just for the Golden Dawn MPs? I also address the Bureau, not personally to you, Mr Cremastine. And so that we continue, Mr Dritsa, it is timely at the moment that the Academy of the Port House for a reason: why in the matter of subsistence you said - there is indeed a subsistence - if we see the seven thousand people who are members of the Port House, how many are going to be able to retire? If there are no recruitments in the way we have denounced, and we and you will be in trouble again, while the academy gives a constant flow of at least officers - port guards. I would like to ask what is happening with the issue of the Port Guard School in Piraeus. From what we're reading, it's been allocated to the HIAD by previous governments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u138	What has been granted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u139	Isn't the building part of the HICP? That's not true, because I saw it in the press release. It is only if you can clarify it, because there is a great deal of parasiology on this subject. Subscribing exists, because we can see port administrations - and large port administrations - with three people inside. You can see at the Port Authority of Elefsina right now how many people are on the night shift. There are not many people at the moment in the Port House. They do too much, and they deserve a lot of congratulations. You said about the previous law. It can be changed. And the question - rhetoric, of course, right now - is what we want: a Port Corps or a Coast Guard? I think you've been taken by a lot of people. Why are we talking about a Port House with seven thousand or a Greek Coast Guard with fourteen thousand, organic composition? And to correct you a little, because Mr. Anomeritis in 2002 had made the opening in Alexandroupolis. There he had announced the Academy of the Port Body. And then the next governments didn't do anything. He kept standing. In my possession, I've had federations press releases since 2008, in 2009. It is timely - I stress - why there are new recruitments with the old regime. Your answer for sure is: Why through ESRB? Because it's gonna be a long time. At the moment we are facing very serious problems. But shouldn't there be a prediction? We saw there was a problem. Don't come here for the last minute to recruit, and you're forced to do what the previous people have done. That's all so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u140	Mr Kuzellis, because you have come back to the matter, I will tell you that I and the Bureau, all the Presidents, apply the Rules of Procedure faithfully. If you noticed, Mr. Kegeroglu asked for the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u141	I noticed very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u142	I didn't give it to him. From there on, nothing is written in the Minutes. I gave the floor to you to start immediately. From that point on, any debate between the Members does not hear from the Bureau nor wants to enter into discussions. In other words, there was no question of a parliamentary procedure to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u143	Will there be penalties? Any sanctions under the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u144	Look, the Rules of Procedure are now personal, to report to the Bureau what these two said. I didn't listen well because there was a fuss. I don't know if you guys heard. There was no microphone, no minutes. From there on, what you say must be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u145	That is to say, apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u146	There has been no complaint from anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u147	So what was that all about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u148	We didn't see anything. Did you hear that? I didn't hear. We were listening here, there was a fuss, I gave the floor to you, and the Minister said what he said, and I replied that if he were in Parliament's procedure, I would certainly have intervened in the Rules of Procedure. The procedure of the House had stopped, the reason was for you. And the Minutes don't write anything. Understand? It is an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. I said again that I am indeed dealing with the question as a matter of constant vigour. Indeed, the Port House, the Greek Coast Guard, needs a more adequate staff than the one that has shrinked, based on the procedure I described to you, from the previous government, where it has been reduced from about ten thousand to eight thousand by the number of organic posts. Nevertheless, there were empty positions left in this shrinked organogram. And we put this quick process in with the perpetrators. And right now, on the basis of these procedures we have initiated, we have greatly approached the coverage of empty organic positions at the level of officers, flagmen and officers and are mainly left empty in port guards. From there on, to change the establishment plan and increase the planned organic positions, it is within our intentions, but that is more difficult. It can't be today. Let everything else be done, and I think we'll be on a very good path. The process of setting up an Academy is a process that we have started. I can tell you first of all that there is a serious procedure for finding suitable space. At the same time, the Ministry has a ready draft law, in particular, to regulate developments in relation to the Port Regulatory Authority and to transform it into an Independent Authority, as foreseen, but also to establish and operate the Public Port Authority, which is absolutely essential for a new institution, for which we are also in the final phase of the procedure. In this draft law, we also have a number of other provisions to solve dating problems both from the Ministry and the Port Authority and from shipping in general. There, we predict - the relevant article is 38 - reform of the system of trainees of the Hellenic Coast Guard - and precisely, we predict from now, even though it takes a year to organise the whole system, the introduction of the insertion of the representatives of the Port Body in schools, through pan-ellanic examinations, with their incorporation into the provisions of Law 1351/1993, as is currently the case. These are the implementation of commitments. In any case, I have to say that the productive schools of the Port Body, both the Pointer School and the Faculty of Testing Officers who are housed and operated at the Naval Testimonial School, as well as the School of Permanent Officials of the Hellenic Navy and the School of the Port Body operating in the "Palaska" facilities in Scaramaga, are integrated, in cooperation with the Navy General Staff, in a programme particularly upgraded. It is schools that, despite the fact that for the flagships it is 15 months, for the officers of nine, for the port guards less, however, the quality of the training provided is very well thought-out and constantly upgraded. Nevertheless, a committee has already been set up, with a decision of the Headquarters of the Port Authority, to update all needs for upgrading the education provided. This working group also includes the representatives of the associations and officers and other representatives of the Port Authority and has the intention of completing its work by the end of the year. From this point of view, with these elements I am giving you, I think it is clear that, in fact, the Ministry and Headquarters of the Port Authority have prioritised these issues and is progressing systematically and systematically. I want to believe that what started as an idea or plan in 2003, now in very short time, in 2016, for the first time after many years, will be a reality. For the first time, there has been such serious work on both the issues of the Academy and on the issues of the pan-Hellenic examinations and on the issues of the level and quality of the education provided. I shall conclude - and thank you, Mr President - for your tolerance with the Port Guards School. Yes, the final plan of the TIDED provided that the Port Guard School, like many others, and even boats used by the Port Body at the port of Piraeus, were not excluded. It would be in the renewed concession contract to the Piraeus Port Authority. So it would be under the control of the investor who would come out of the competition. That was the intention of the GOED, and at this point, as in the coastline of the fertilisers, as in many other points. I have recently been given the opportunity at a press conference to expose one by one. They were put in a suffocating time frame after the September elections. The HICP considered this proposal final - otherwise 'the tender would be jeopardised' - which was a Memorandum of Understanding, in accordance with the agreement of the House last summer. This 'final' proposal by the GOI, the government, the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Shipping, the co-responsible ministers, made a great deal of effort and improved it on extremely important issues. And the Port House Headquarters in honor of professionalism and documentation raised issues that could only be accepted at the end, despite the fact that the initial position was that any change in this text would jeopardise the tender. The competition was not compromised. It has also been carried out within the deadlines laid down. There have been major changes. Amongst these, the Port Guard School. I'm going to tell you the "secret." The Port Guard School had never been transferred to the PPA. It was anyway off the concession contract. This was evidence that the Ministry made it, while the WHO considered that the Port Guard School was always in the PPA. He was never in the PPA. In fact, there was a contract of use, but it did not have PPA jurisdiction over the school building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Minister. And with the speech of the Minister, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-22-S1-commons.u151	With the consent of the House at 12.32 p.m., the sitting on Monday, April 25, 2016 at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work is closed: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
