ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 22-6-2016, PMZ's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau at its meetings of Wednesday 22 June 2016, with regard to the vote on all drafts of the law: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland on cooperation in the field of defence material".]] I have the honour to announce to the House the FAQ on Friday 24 June 2016. A. PERIODICALS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Aitolakarana of the Radical Left Coalition, Maria Triantafylou, to the Minister for Home and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the need to deal directly with the water supply problem of Ietalina. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Athanasios Davakis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Athanasios Davakis on her excellent report. 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGOU to the Minister for Rural Development and Food about the loss of subsidies for young farmers and tenants of rural land. 4. The question by No 1008/15-6-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the annulment of the provisions abolishing the EASA and bringing about losses on the income of thousands of pensioners. 5. The 1111-17-2016 topical question by Congressman Pireos of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, on the risk of easing twelve thousand cases of major tax evasion. 6. Mr Georgios Katsiantonis, Member of the Association of Central Banks, with regard to the statements by the Head of Eurogroup, Mr Düsselblum on the non-viability of the Greek programme. B. PERIODICALS second-round Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1020/21-6-2016 by MP Pireos of New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the incident involving refugees on a cruise ship in Mytilini. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Health, on the redundancies of OKANA officials in Patras. 3. The Question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on measures to meet the needs of teachers for the new school year. 4. The Question No 1018/21-6-2016 by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kossilis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "the disastrous and unjust demand for payment of a great and unjust fine to businesses that had been closed during the crisis and are now asking for them to be re-activated". 5. The Question No 1034/21-6-2016 by the Independent MEP Mr. Efstathiou (Stathhi) Panagoulis to the Minister of Finance concerning the costs of the "representatives of the institutions" in the public sector. 6. The question by No 942-3-6-2016 of the Greek MP, Mr. Savvas Anastasiades, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, about the strikes in the port of Thessaloniki. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Papaliou to the Minister of Rural Development and Food regarding the ‘Hatzigakis package’ and the decision of the European Court of Justice to recover the sum of EUR 327 million as unlawfully paid to Greek farmers in 2008 and 2009. 8. Under No 987/13-6-2016, a topical question by the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mrs Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about the possibility of a 60% reduction in the pension of farmers, in accordance with Article 20 of the new insurance bill. 9. The Question No 991/13-2016 by F Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, on the need for assistance with staff of the First Dodecanese Police Directorate. 10. The Question No 1003/14-6-2016 by Congressman Pireaus of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Health, on the operational problems of the Anticancer Hospital of Metaxas. 11. The question by number 996/14-6-2016 of the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the reading of the Gospel on the day of the Holy Spirit in Agia Sophia. 12. O by No 967-7-6-2016 a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy about the strike of the port workers at the Piraeus Port Organisation (PO). 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The Question No 899/23-5-2016 by MP Magnesia of New Democracy, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of Health, concerning the exclusion of Volos Hospital from the ESRB programme. 14. Observed. The Question No 708/28-32016 by MP Fthiotidos of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Health on the problem of the General Hospital of Lamia. 15. The current question by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the new delay in the construction of the new airport in Kastelli Crete. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 5364/13-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the Archaeological Museum of Mesaras. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday (Eves) Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health about the problems in the operation of the surgical institutions of the Eleusina General Hospital of Thriasio. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Athanasios Papachristopoulos (Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity) will be discussed on the fourth question of the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Independent Greeks, Athanasios Papachristopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the assimilation of third families with polytecnes. In this timely question, the Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Theanos Fotou. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, one of the gypsies' wounds at the moment is overpopulation and we all agree on it, because both in China and in India and in Bangladesh and in Africa there is overpopulation, as in the Gypsy families, but in our country we all know it - I do not think I am breaking open doors - that in forty years now, that is, 2060, we will be eight and a half million and in another forty years we will reach around seven million. We all know that the economic crisis in a world that has brains, which has brakes safely, in a world that understands it makes it self-restricted. I mean, people don't just have kids, but they don't even get married. And if he thinks of getting married, Minister, he also avoids religious marriage, even though he can believe, because religious marriage costs more to civil marriage and the cohabitation pact, for which some even blamed us when we voted for it, even though I think it serves a lot of people. All statistics show that births are decreasing over time. I am not one of those who ask questions about my constituency and you will never see that. I believe that having a child, not two or three, is heroism, that is, marrying and doing a child, who doesn't do that either. So now we have about two hundred thousand people who have three children, and I think it is self-evident and reasonable, even though we are going through a financial crisis, but because demographics are a major problem, they are treated as multiples. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] They have fourteen requests. I do not want to list them one by one, so that we do not waste time, but I think they are entitled to seek equal treatment with the tenants. That is the meaning of today's topical question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. As we have said, the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Theanos Fotio, will respond. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u4	Indeed, Mr Papachristopoulos, your questions are of greater interest to the entire Greek society and not focused on a constituency, even though this is also the role of a Member of Parliament to bring requests to Parliament. As you quite rightly said, the question of whether a child makes a child in the crisis is much greater and much more serious than benefits. We have studies in our hands from large international organisations, which demonstrate that, in making a child, a child is pushing it, not donations such as those made over the past few years, but that their child will have free health, free education, free access to children's coke stations, i.e. services. This is what makes her more nervous than anything else, namely, how to survive and develop this child in conditions, especially today, of crisis. We are also aware at the moment that from the benefits we have received and that the state has provided all the time, and we, of course, are, at the moment, benefiting from the incomes of the third families, while the multitude is 27%. What does that mean, Mr. Papachristopoulos? It means that third - family families are equalized within the long period of income criteria. In other words, they follow the population, so much in extreme poverty, so much in poverty, etc., while most of the many families focus mainly on poverty. That's something you want impressed us. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Now, after all I have said, I would particularly like to mention what requests from third parties relate to our Ministry and what concerns other ministries. Because, as you said, the requests of the tritecs are fourteen, but I have a list here in front of me with twenty-six benefits, which I will read to you in my dentistry, to see what third-party is equal to the polytecs and to which they have a slightly different moleculosis. I shall return, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. I would like to say about Mr Papachristopoulos, before I give him the floor, to those who have the question why he is developing his question on the sitting, that it is because there is a serious health problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u6	I apologize for that, I have a problem with my leg.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u7	That's exactly why he's got a problem with his leg real.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u8	It is my fault that I did not say so, Mr President. I apologise for that. That's right, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u9	Here, Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u10	Madam Minister, I am an eyewitness to what kind of crisis our country is going through and what problems it is facing, I am not talking about. Maybe someone will see it a little philosophically and say "Here we have other problems, it becomes a mess, we have the piles, a million is below the poverty line" etc. Accepted, I don't deny them, that's the way it is. I think, however, that the issue of the family - more generally the family - should be raised for one child for both children, especially for the three, because I think these people are real heroes. They do have these benefits you say, I do not question them. You know their request. In a society like today, even with a child, not two and three, you have a problem. I think, therefore, that we should be leaning on this issue, because I believe it is a big issue for Greek society. I'm telling you, the bell's been ringing, and in forty years we're gonna be 8,500,000 million. And I do not belong to those who express a number of solutions, which are sometimes heard. I'm in the opinion that we're a sibling nation. And I think that we, our own society, should see it as a whole, without any discrimination, honestly, believe me, are a matter that needs to be seen as a whole. As far as what you said is concerned, many ministries are indeed confused, it is not just you. However, it is a question that needs to be addressed as a whole, and at least this timely question, for these people, because it will become an incentive later for all couples, when they see that even something has happened to third parties. My opinion is that we should see it as a government as a whole. This thing will stay and write history. It is not a rousphetti to say that third parties are treated as multiples. I don't think it's rushphetti. If it were, I wouldn't say, I would never ask that question. That is my opinion and I think you share it, at least in theory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. The Minister will be seconded for three minutes. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u12	Of course, Mr Papachristopoulos, I fully share what you have said. I just insist on the emphasis on the child. A child is what's only one in a family and a child is and when he's made a family with two children. Do you understand? I told you before that what we as left-wing government are all the benefits, which must be services, to be extended for all children, because only then will we reduce fertility and increase fertility. However, I will read to you a little bit of the benefits, so that you can hear more specifically which are not assimilated to three-tiers and multiples and what is the problem. Exemption from the passenger car registration fee: both categories are assimilated. Participation in public, in Otta and in legal persons governed by public law: Here we have 10%, which is shared by many and third parties. But, below, when it comes to re-appointing or recruitment protected in public services, legal persons and TAs, there we have 3% in one case and 2% in the other case. You see, they both get both privileges. Transfers: Yes only to public, political, administrative, both categories. Staff Recruitment: Yes, in one case, laundry, and does not apply to the OHS staff category, due to the fact that usually the registered posts are few, i.e. under 10. Therefore, even a single position cannot be satisfactorily hampered. Understand? I mean, no one goes to the percentage. Introduction to ELAS Schools: Yes, both categories. Merchant Navy Schools, tax exemptions, reduced term: Yes, both categories. Systematicization of lifelong learning and other provisions: Yes, both categories, just third parties fall after the trousers. Introduction to High Schools, Military, etc., of the Armed Forces: Yes, both categories. Exclusion from the availability of civil servants: This, as you know, does not use our Government, so it makes no sense. Culture Card: Yes, both charges. Profession of a representative in the committee on the multi-tech status of the beneficiary: Yes, in multi-tech and life-long, not really in the other case. But that's a matter of another ministry. Reduced tickets to OSE, to long-distance buses, to CBELs, etc. Here we say, yes, to specific buses and not to urban buses. Anyway, it's a matter of the Ministry of Transport. Taxi licenses, registration permits I.X., bus: Yes, both categories. They have the same privilege. Reduced legal expenses: Here we have no, but this is a problem with the Ministry of Justice. Many of the previous is a problem of the Ministry of Labour and I told you that we have assimilated them, as you can see. Discounts of cleaning and watering fees: yes both categories. It is a matter of the Ministry of Interior, because today some municipalities do not accept it. Aid from municipalities is a matter for the Ministry of Interior again, because there is a refusal by certain municipalities. Student transcripts: Yes, both categories. Multi-Technical allowances, which are the same: Yes, both categories. It's the big reinforcement - if you like - of the state. It costs about 680-700 million, polyteclic and tritecical allowances, together with child allowances, today in the state. It's a matter of the Ministry of Labour. Reduced PPC fees: Yes both categories, with income criteria obviously. Concession of dwellings without draw: Here it is a matter of the OEC, which has been abolished. Priority discounts for infants and nurseries: Yes both categories. Provide, under conditions, products and food: Yes both categories. Free and conditional childbirth, which is a matter of the Ministry of Health. This is differentiated, that is, no. Finally, a representative of the OAED committees. Here, in fact, the multitude is represented and the third parties are not represented. That was my answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. Before we move on to the next question, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics presents its reports to the Prosecutor's requests for the authorisation of criminal prosecution against Members. Subsequent to the first question by MP Fthiotidas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasios Michalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the legacy of Ioanna Kriki at the Orphanage of Larissa. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Theanos Fotou. Mr. Michalis, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. My question is a repetition of the question I tabled in writing to the relevant Ministries on 8 February, and I am obliged to come back because I did not see any tangible results from the administration of the Lamia Children's Care Centre, where the property of the Lamia Orphanage has come from since its abolition. On the substance, Ioanna Krikki after her death gave her property, consisting of a house of twelve apartments and four stores on Momferatos Street at Guzis, Athens, and two large plots at Platamonas 704 sqm. and 124 sq.m. This property was sold, as far as rents are concerned, by Metropolis Larissa. After my question I received from Metropolitan Larisa - and we should take it seriously - a document that I will present to you, which says: "From the adoption of these decisions..." - are two court judgments in 2008 and 2011 at the court of appeal, which render the property at the Centre of Child Care Lamias - "... the Holy Mitropoli of Laris Tyrnavos has nothing to do with both the inheritance of the available and its management". The question arises: Since 2008 and 2011 who receives the rents of the apartment and the corresponding land? So far, as far as I know, the administrations of the Lamia Child Care Centre have not been collected and, in particular, the latter has not dealt with the matter. This building is the one where I show you in the picture. I'll testify to the Minutes. There is also a multitude of publications in Larissa from the newspaper "The Fighting Christians of Larissa", which states: "The legacy of Metropolitan Larissa: The rents received from the legacy of Ioanna Krikki, where are they? " I think it is a very serious matter and I expect the Minister to answer that, with regard to the control of the administration, which our Government has appointed, for the actions he should have taken, that is to say, to register those beetles that have been attributed to it - it is public property, Minister and Mr President - and to collect the corresponding rents, at least from 2008 or 2011 onwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Michalis' question will be answered for three minutes by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr. Theanos Fotiou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u16	Mr Michalis, thank you very much for asking this timely question today. The legal persons governed by public law, i.e. the social protection centres, which are thirteen, plus Papafios and the CEC and the National Deaf Foundation, oversee sixty-three total institutions that exercise social protection in public law in our country. At the same time, there are seven hundred fifty institutions, which are legal persons of private law in various forms, namely unions which have problems, often similar to those of legal persons of public law, which have to do with legacy and others. Since you - and very well - visited us at the Ministry but before, you have pointed out the matter to us, we have taken all the necessary steps, including through the administration of the Social Protection Centre, to see where the situation is and if the rents are not collected and whether or not the decision has been finalised. The update of all the services of the Ministry, the official and informal - because I also made calls for information - is, as you know, that the final decision of the Administrative Court of Athens, which makes the former legal person of public law under the name of the Center for Children's Care of Lamias, has now been served in the center on 28/1/2016. It was cleaned up with the cost and diligence of a lawyer appointed by the current administration of the Centre for the Social Welfare of Central Greece and by my own encouragement, because for five years since the adoption of that decision, the previous administration and the proxy lawyer represented at the Court of Appeal by the Centre for the Welfare of Central Greece did not take care of this. So the diligence of the scaffolding made this administration here and it could now be served on 28/1/2016 this decision. Due to the abstention of the Bar Association, which started on 12/1/2016 and still exists until now, no legal action can be implemented until its end. The rest of it will be exposed in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Michalis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u18	That is, if they understood correctly, the administrative decision of the Athens Administrative Court of Appeal of March 2011 has not been cleaned up until January 2016! My view is that officials who have been late to do so must be criminally prosecuted. This cannot be the case! I've been a civil servant for years, and that's unthinkable. Because if this is not the case, it is assumed that something was "playing" under the table, so that the Larissa Church could continue to collect the rents. Minister, I went in person and visited the building, which is what I'm showing you. The building is inhabited. There are two stores that operate. When I came in and asked if anything was rented, their exhortation was: 'Go away, go away, rent nothing!' I suspect something about that. As far as the lawyer's attorney is concerned, I would like to inform you that she has been Mrs Candete for many years. Because it was not paid in 2011 - and rightly, in my opinion - and was not present at the hearing in March 2011, Mr Stamatopoulos Dimitris was unfamiliarly represented - in his honor and that is why I am referring to it - and the decision in favour of the public was won. I understand your proposal, I accept it. I expect to see how today's administration will claim not only the house - and I will present it in the Minutes - but also the two plots of the Platamonas region. It's public property, and it's new. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Michalis. Madam Minister, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u20	Because of my previous professional activity, i.e. that I am an architect, I visited the building, which is in Athens. As you can see, Mr Papoutsis, I have a very own view. Indeed, it is a very interesting building, which, apart from the benefit that one could have from it from rents, could be used for too many actions, as we are doing today. For empty or half-empty buildings in areas of Athens, which can be exploited in a different way, we are making tripartite contracts between our supervised bodies - between us and international organisations - so that these buildings are built and currently housed unaccompanied applicants. It is a process followed by all social welfare centres today throughout Greece. It is an excellent offer to deal with this extremely sensitive issue. We are therefore interested in this property, in addition to the gains that have been gained so far by the Social Protection Centre, which I, too, think should not escape in any way and should be claimed. But then I would like to tell you that, after consulting with the President of the Centre, the Plenipotentiary of the Central Bank of Greece, in order to obtain the lost time of the abstention, sent to the proxy lawyer of the Holy Town of Larissa, the above decision that I told you before, in order to initiate the process of delivery - at the level of lawyers at least - the record of the documents of inheritance and the amount that exists in the bank account of the Holy Metropolis Larissa and which, as you know, are legally part of the Social Protection Centre. In other words, by document on 10/6/2016 - this is the document of the proxy lawyer I am telling you - in the next few days - and we will be watching it from the Ministry - the informal delivery of the documents to the Centre for Social Protection from Metropolis and the drawing up of the relevant delivery protocol - is imminent. The prerequisite is the opening of a bank account in the name of the Centre for Social Protection of Central Greece and the transfer of the amount. We are therefore - how to tell you - in this case, because we really want to understand what has happened all these years. I think you are extremely right to raise this issue, because there has indeed been - and we see it - a great deal of mismanagement. We are on top, whether there are similar mismanagement phenomena in social protection centres and legal persons governed by public law, but also in private law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that the first under number 990/13-6-2016 question from Mr Eleftherios Aygenakis on the payment of agricultural subsidies is not discussed as the Minister of Apostle is attending a conference in Tripoli. Likewise, the first question under number 989/13-6-2016 of the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary Committee of New Democracy Mrs.Akaterini Papakostas - Ironopoulou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the harmonisation of the procedures for the repayment of third-party loans to private sector families with the third families of the public sector, is not discussed due to a workload of Deputy Minister Antonopoulou. The second, number 992/13-2016, topical question of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, concerning the country's bankruptcy and the budget diversion, is not discussed due to a workload of Deputy Minister Juliarakis. The second, with number 993-14-2016, topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the free provision of medical care to the economically weak and insecure citizens, is not discussed due to the unsecured obligations of Minister Xanthi. Now we will discuss the fifth under number 984/13-6-2016 topical question by Samos MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the non-inclusion of Samos in the pilot phase of the implementation of Social Solidarity Income. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Theanos Fotou. Mr Dimitrios Sevastakis has the floor to develop his question in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u22	I would like to thank the Minister for answering the timely question I have put and for not including Samos in the pilot phase of the implementation of the Social Solidarity Income. Madam Minister, Samos has been severely affected by the refugee pressure. Its tourism has an extremely large decline. Therefore, a basic production size this year has been weakened or extinct. I would like you to reply to me according to what methods of comparison and according to what population criteria, with which poverty indicators and unemployment rates Samos was not included in the pilot implementation of the pre-accession programme. In the second part I will further develop the traits that I think should be led by this policy, this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Sevastakis. Mrs Theanos Fotio, Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, has the floor for her reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u24	Mr Sevastakis, I am always happy to come to the House to reply because I believe that parliamentary control is a top parliamentary procedure. This is the work of the congressman, but also of the government. I know how malicious I have been, but also other Members, the previous period in this story. So I always come. On the substance of the matter now. Thank you really for your question, because I have to dismantle a misguided concept, if you want, a misconception that exists that pilot application or, if you like, the first phase of the implementation of the CRL, the Social Solidarity Income, is a privilege. So I shall refer first to that, and then I will give you all the figures you have asked for. To explain: When the previous minimum guaranteed income was piloted - as they were saying at the time - and I will tell you why we changed the name, not for reasons of impression, however - it was actually in one municipality per region, no matter how large the region was. Let's have 35% of the population. A municipality was chosen. At that time Samos had been chosen. And then it could only be favorable if your municipality enters or doesn't enter, since there was no other protection net. Fortunately, we, as you know, with Mr.4320, namely the humanitarian crisis measures, have spread a net of elementary security for extreme poverty across the country. What's going on now? Firstly, the thirty municipalities selected on criteria, which I will tell you shortly afterward, are municipalities with which we need to experiment, if you want, to what extent what we are planning is right and to adapt. In this sense, they are municipalities that will suffer some suffering, are not municipalities with privileges. Why? For those who do not go into this, already with an amendment we have tabled, which was discussed yesterday in the Committee on the Production and Trade of the Parliament and will be voted on Monday, the measures for the humanitarian crisis across Greece will normally be extended, until the end of the year, where everything will then be stopped and the implementation of the Social Solidarity Income will begin throughout Greece. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing.]] In the election of the municipalities, the first criterion that he saw was, if that is the case, the municipalities chosen will not be the former. They already had an experience and a hardship about how to make history. Our Government's intention is to secure this money by the end of 2016. These municipalities will be under the safety net. We do not repeat the thirteen municipalities that existed before. They'll be in the other state. Secondly, people are ignoring - of course Samos' people know - that the Social Income of Solidarity is done on the same basis as the same criteria, income, assets and movable property as the humanitarian crisis measures and as was the case in the previous government's Minimum Guaranteed Income. So nothing changes populations, as you can see. They are the same, so we think, the ones who enter one and the other. Thirdly, there is a basic difference. The humanitarian crisis measures are prosperous, i.e. if a four-member family takes less than 400 euros a month, we do not care if it takes 300 euros or 200 euros, etc., depending on the members of its family 400 euros. In other words, 150 euros, 150 euros rental subsidy and about 40 euros electricity subsidy. In the other situation, which is an international application of what Europeans call 'Minimum Guaranteed Income', it complements the money, i.e. if the family makes 200 euros, we give another EUR 200. If it makes 300 euros, we give 100 euros. The story of the Minimum Guaranteed Income is overrated. That is why we have changed it and called it CRLs, because we are trying to provide benefits that we have given to the humanitarian crisis measures, because without them we believe it is weak. That is why we are experimenting here, which of these benefits we can give, how much it will cost us, what percentage we will put into labour integration procedures, because without these only three benefits, I think it is not enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u25	The rest in your dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u27	Mr Sevastakis has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u28	Minister, I conclude from your answer that a new shell is created, combined with media in the new year, since 2017. A combination of means is investigated that will build a prognostic substrate. My question has nothing to do with why it was renamed from Minimum Guaranteed Income to Social Income for Solidarity. My concern is that, although it is not a development measure, although it is not a defence measure, yet the social realities, such as my island - I imagine other islands, other regions - which have mainly been raised by the coincidence of the crisis - not only from the crisis, but also from the refugee pressure - play a very large role in social stabilisation. So with this care, that was the start of my question. I am very interested in clarifying that this active combination of measures, provisions and care will include, in a more rational manner, the people who deserve it and who will be more broad on their social characteristics.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Sevastaki. The Minister has the floor for her denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u30	That's exactly what I said. And now I will also give you some figures on the methodology chosen. Since the three municipalities in the former - you know, the municipalities in the country were three hundred and twenty-five - the remaining thirty were selected. How? First of all, we divided the percentage by the simple method of three, namely, how much the population of each region was, and therefore how many of its municipalities belonged, underestimating a little, if you like, or lowering the percentage in the large regions. You understand why. That would take ten to eleven and ten and a half municipalities, while we gave nine. In central Greece we gave a municipality, in central Macedonia four, in Crete two, in eastern Macedonia two - I tell you how the number of percentages of the population came out - in Epirus one, in the Ionian Islands one - municipality we mean, a place - in the northern Aegean, where Samos belongs one, in the Peloponnese two, in the southern Aegean two, in Thessaly two, in western Greece two and in western Macedonia one. These given, this one, how is he chosen? The first is unemployment, the second is the percentage of people who entered the humanitarian crisis measures, and the third is the percentage of people in each municipality who entered the TEVA, that is, the most deprived fund. So three factors are attacking each other and the biggest one comes out. That's how Lesvos got out. At least in relation to the refugee crisis, I imagine you have no objection to one position taken by Lesvos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u31	It's not an objection to Lesvos. For the enlargement of 2017 you have not clarified.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u32	If the president allows me to answer that question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u33	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u34	There is no such procedure anymore, but, because it concerns the whole country, I was unequivocal. The 1-1-2017 is extended to the three hundred twenty-five municipalities of the country. I've said it three times, I think. That's the story. It's only for six months now. And in these six months Samos will be in the measures of the humanitarian crisis. Nothing's shooting Samo. The government and we are working with the Ministry of Tourism and the OAED, etc., to support these islands in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Minister. The sixth under number 945/3-6-2016 topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on “the ongoing Albanian challenges”, is not discussed due to the misappropriated obligations of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Kotzias. Similarly, the seventh question under number 946/3-6-2016, on the financing of Turkey through the Consulate of Komotini, on the purchase of property of despaired Greeks in Thrace, is not discussed due to the unsuccessful obligations of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Kotzias. There is also no discussion of the eighth question under number 914/27-5-2016 of the new Member of Parliament II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the "creating of illegal kindergartens and boardrooms in Xanthi". Similarly, the ninth question under number 545/15-2-2016 is not discussed in the ninth question of the second parliamentary Athens of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Minister of Health on the problems of operation in the EKAB. We now move on to the debate of the third under number 1006/14-6-2016 on a topical question by the Member of the Greek Communist Party MP, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister for Home and Administrative Reconstruction, on the problems of day-to-day and child-care stations. In the timely question, the Minister will answer Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis. The honourable Member has the floor, Mr Emmanuel Synthrakis, to develop his question for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, a few days ago changes were announced to the "Harmonization of family and working life" programme for the operation of baby nurseries and CIDS for the school year 2016-2017. Indeed, you have also described them as social fairs - let us - so fair that the only ones who applauded these changes were the CEDEFOP and the representatives of private children's stations, even describing them as positively unprecedented. The reality, however, says that thousands of children will not read the door to childcare stations this year. The changes you have announced are in a reactionary direction. Firstly, you say that you have secured EUR 175 million, by 9 million less than this year. It was EUR 184 million and some forty-five thousand children were excluded last year. In fact, children who stay out are much more, since this programme is aimed at children of very low income families. You have also not even given the EUR 46 million for this year, coming from national funds, so that thousands of workers through the NRP are unpaid and the stations are in trouble with the project's implementation. In fact, we had tabled a relevant question on this. So the same and worse will happen this year. A much larger number of infants and infants will be excluded and there will be fewer workers in structures and more cuts in services offered. Secondly, from now on, financing will not be given to children's stations, as has been done so far, but directly to the recipient separately. That means the parent will be looking for the kindergarten that his child will send. This will, objectively, lead to the premium for private childcare facilities, since that is where parents will be directed. In practice, it deprives municipal schools of significant resources, but also staff, the funding of which depends on the operation of the above programme. And that's because how many employees will be hired will depend on how many parents have declared interest in the city's kindergartens. Thirdly, voucher is reduced by 5%. You're doing this to win some positions. We recall that there had also been corresponding cuts in vouchers from time to time and led to cuts in transport, in offshore activities, in the feeding of children. Fourthly, the restriction that applied was abolished, according to which a structure could accommodate up to 70% of its positions through the programme. Moreover, up to 100% of the posts of a structure may be covered by the beneficiaries of the programme. You seemingly tempting, but in practice you exclude children from the labour market or children of public and municipal employees who do not have the right to participate in the ESDP programme and will not be able to enter any kind of kindergarten. So, what are you doing? It is what we say'manage poverty', that is, take from the poor to give them the crumbs. So carbons the treasure with these so - called socially just changes. That is why we ask you, Minister, what measures will you take to ensure that all children's children's childcare stations are included free of charge, by abolishing food, by fulfilling all family applications, without discrimination and conditions, and by financing state budgets? Secondly, what is going to happen with the EUR 46 million outstanding, which you have not paid, so that thousands of workers are paid and the project completed for children? Thirdly, will you hire the necessary educational and auxiliary staff, with stable, full-time and insurance rights? Fourthly, will the Public Investment Programme be developed to build new modern public and day-care stations covering all children between six months and five-and-a-half years old? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Synthraki. The question will be answered by the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Panagiotis Kourublis. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, you will allow me for half a minute to make a reference to today, which will be twenty years since the death of a great political leader, Andreas Papandreou. Mr President, I shall now refer to the question of my dear colleague, whom I thank for the understanding that I was unable to come last week. First of all, I wanted to ask my dear colleague, whom I appreciate the initiative for this particular question, anxiety and interest, because it is crucial in a modern society to have priorities for those who cannot, because of their age - in this case, children of pre-school and infanthood - defend and claim their rights. There, indeed, is a society being judged. These priorities identify the qualitative indicators of a society. So because he made a comment on the position of the CEDEFOP and the other bodies at the meeting, I wanted in his denture to tell me who else he proposes to be and was not, because when we are in such a sensitive situation, we cannot say what we want, Mr President, simply to make opposition. I think the Communist Party of Greece is always very careful in its positions. So I would like my dear colleague to tell me if someone else was absent and I, as Minister, will recognize my mistake. There was an open consultation for the first time, Mr President. For the first time, all stakeholders were invited, whether they were public or private. What am I supposed to do? I do not define the CEDEFOP. It is defined by the mayors elected by the Greek people. Whether we like it or we don't like it, it has a leadership that can be politically adjacent or not. What does that have to do with anything? Does she lose credibility or interest in contributing from her side? I think, therefore, that there has been a very useful and creative dialogue. The result of this dialogue was to go to a new system, more fair, more creative, more social, more refresher. We were tortured to make that decision. It was an undertaking, because we are going to a new system which must be put into operation in good time, quickly and early, so that it can work from September. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Secondly, the number of children is not reduced to a minimum. On the contrary, the system becomes fairer, because you know very well, Mr Syntagakis, since you are interested in social justice, that in many cases a mother's child who did not work could not enter because she did not work. Let her be poorer than a working mother! Thirdly, you said about the money. You know very well how much the ESDP appropriations have been reduced. This government has complemented national resources, Mr Colleague, so that there is no single child who will not be in the number of children who go to the nurseries. So we cannot frustrate the serious interest and effort made by the political leadership of the Ministry of the Interior to deal with this very reality. You said about the loose ends. Indeed, I do not hide from you that there were loose ends for the workers in the year running. Two doses are already being pushed forward. I assure you from this step forward - and call me and exercise the strictest criticism - that by August all these debts have been covered. With this system, however, now, Mr Colleague, which you are judging, I have the impression that you are dealing with it by prejudice. I would sincerely ask you - because I know that you are a good-for-nothing person - to read it well and see that it really is simpler, more functional, gives more potential. Do you want to go back to the previous system? You should tell us that, too. The previous system, therefore, enabled 70% to be covered at nurseries. That's 100%. The previous system was limited to five stations. If the five stations were covered, a parent could not take his child somewhere else. Now, this right is unlimited. All this builds up a new effort that truly shapes a new environment in this space. Of course, we also need to see the loose ends that exist with regard to workers in judicial decisions, which is one issue here too. I inform you - and I believe you will vote on the provision - that we have prepared a multi-legislative plan in which we have predicted the possibility for the municipalities not to resort to the above procedures and accept the first-time decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u39	Minister, we can talk about this in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u40	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u41	Mr Colleagues, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u42	Minister, you said that we need to give priority to pre-school ages, so that their parents can claim, shout, and so on. I'll tell you what. Of course, you inherited it, but it looks like you're still on the same line as the previous ones. To see how socially fair your choices and changes are, another so socially just was what previous governments did. Based on ELSTAT's data, the critical ages of six months to five-and-a-half years, we are talking about births 2010-2014, which should have been at child-care stations of 508 000. How many kids does the state cover? It covers 80,000. The births were 508,000 for the years 2010-2014, so so many are the most critical ages of six months to five and a half years! In other words, you realise that the state only covers 15% of the real needs of Greek society. Of course, we do not tell you that press a button and the next day to cover all 508 000. But what are you doing? We blamed you, and we told you that you were managing poverty. That's what you're doing. But income and social criteria also apply. When one is unemployed, his child is not a priority, because he may be sitting at home watching it. Such criteria, therefore, apply which exclude the vast majority of children. Of course, we do not want the old system to come back. That is why we have told you that we are claiming completely different issues and I will tell you a little about them. But I'd say that. The shortages in staff have made hard and exterior the working conditions. In 2011, the then government abolished outtime for kindergartens in the name of equality of working conditions and imposed eight hours. The course came back under the workers ’ protests, as well as the fact that the teacher’s work requires constant, heightened attention and vigilance. In practice, however, this is not being observed, since in the absence of personnel they are forced to work roundly beyond the hour. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We ask the following question: Will you hire the necessary staff, pedagogical, helpful, with full work, wages, pension rights, to stop this circumvention of the fixed daily working time? Secondly, many workers at the kindergartens, the CFPs and other structures, have them in a job unresolved. You mentioned earlier that you would bring a provision to the forthcoming draft law on new regulations in the TATs. These workers had fled first, they had been entitled, and according to the legislation in force, the municipality had to resort to the court of appeal and annul a positive primary decision. You say you'll bring in a new order. We have no objection to this - we know it, we know it - but, be careful, without asterisks. Because in the forthcoming bill, which you referred to, it states ‘only if the municipalities have guaranteed credits to cover wage costs and with the opinion of the Head of the Economic Service’. What does that mean? When the municipality is underfunded, when it doesn't have the head bed, when it doesn't have to pay the workers, when it doesn't have to deal with structures, what will it do? He's gonna fire them. Is he going to go to the courtroom? What? You must give us a concrete answer and change, correct these bad texts. So a river of trouble, Minister. These are, of course, the results of the decentralisation of the business and rewarding functioning of the municipalities and structures, which "family" parents, children, workers in structures. That's how we're going to lead, in the final analysis, where? In the COMES and volunteering, so that the structures can function. But in practice things are led to the commercialisation of the needs of the child and to the degradation of services, of course, in the educational role.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u43	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u44	I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: we, as a Communist Party of Greece, start from a starting point that says that pre-school education is also the right of all children and infants to the right development of psychosomatic life. The NSRFs are very precarious projects, like the Investment Plan, which you know very well with decisions of your Government that the cut can at any time cut funding for social structures. You say that by August, workers will have been paid. Sure. Let's see how many cuts will be made by then. But why didn't you give the money to the workers all these months? Or what is it that ensures that from the national resources you say the amount for the children's stations is increased, that it will also be paid on time, or whether the cutter will not come to cut it, because the budgetary and primary surpluses will not come out?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u45	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u46	Therefore, in our opinion, children's stations should not be pediatricians, but should satisfy basic social needs and, above all, serve the basic objective of pre-school education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, since they participated in the summer education program "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation, twenty students and students and teachers attending from the 8th and 9th High School of Elios. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let me tell you that you are in the middle of a procedure called parliamentary scrutiny, where Members are asking and answering the Ministers. Previously, the MP, Mr. Synthrakis, asked the Communist Party about the problems in nursery and childcare stations and the relevant Minister for Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Kourublis, answered. There's a dialogue. We are now in the middle of the dialogue, where the Member has again spoken, and now he will answer and close the Minister, Mr Kurublis, in his answer of three minutes. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, the current government listens very carefully to the Members' positions on all the wings. Honestly, I would like to say that we share the anxiety, the sincere anxiety, about the issues that have to do with the social responsibility that we have and about pre-school education. But when we are talking in Parliament, we must be free from the logic of exaggeration, because we are not convinced and losers, too, of the essence and value of it. I must inform my dear colleague that the number of applicants for childcare facilities is too low in relation to the number he has said. Therefore, it is not useful to hear such things that have no meaning. Secondly, the fellow Member in his request, in his concern that those who applauded the new system in some way were not the ones who should have been, did not answer me who they should have been and were not. Because I have the assessment that everyone who should have been there was there. We have no reason to exclude anyone in these matters. Thirdly, he did not answer me on the substance. Is it in favor of the old system? Twenty-seven bureaucratic procedures have been abolished, Mr President, to go to the new system, which is really simpler - I stress it again - more functional, more effective and more social law. There are really no answers to this. As far as the workers are concerned, we, Mr President, agree that these centres must be permanent. We have already started a process on that and we have asked the municipalities for priorities, in order to allow, on the basis of what we have achieved, permanent staff who, in the face of what you say, have an even greater scientific perversion. There is a need for intervention in this area because there are investigations which state that when a child goes to a nursery, his character is very much shaped and he is five times less involved in criminal acts than a child who has not gone. Also, the child who's been to a kindergarten with everything he gets from this lawsuit can be more successful, so it's a multiple benefit to the economy. So we are all aware of this necessity. Now, as far as the municipalities are concerned, I would like to tell you, Mr President, that we need to monitor things more carefully and not in general and simply say exodus. Self-government has gone through a great deal of triumph from the economic crisis. When last year at the CEDEFOP conference I announced to them that they would take the remaining resources, the two hundred three million, not one believed that this would happen. What the government said last year did it and you know it very well. All mayors confess to it all over the territory. What the political leadership has undertaken in this ministry in relation to the state's obligations in the municipalities has been kept up to an antenna, which is why we have the courage to call it public in this tone. I think that in such a spirit we can move forward and work together. Of course, criticism is useful because many things are being corrected and weaknesses found, but I must tell you that we are determined as a ministry and as a government to get rid of all the possibilities of social affairs. After the closure of the evaluation and the'reconciliation' that we all have to do, by confrontation and opposition, in the context of democratic patriotism in order to bring home from this deep economic, social and moral crisis, in a spirit of understanding and cooperation and criticism, I am sure that Hellenism will come out of this tunnel, come out of a clearer spirit and then in a spirit of fairer redistribution of the wealth produced will be dealt with year by year in a better and fairer way with these very critical issues concerning both child protection and people with disabilities and the multitude and all so-called vulnerable groups of society. We want to enable all the members of society to take advantage of the opportunities that exist in the country and to have a balance in this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, there has been a misunderstanding and, if I may say so, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u51	Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u52	Minister, I wanted to make a comparison with how many births we had in the past five years and how many children are in kindergartens. I didn't say about the applications. Five hundred and eight thousand children were born to be in kindergartens. It's eighty thousand. You rejected forty-five thousand applications. That is, a hundred twenty - five thousand applications had been made and you received eighty thousand. It's just math, it's just arithmetic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u53	Oh, no. Even if we turned them down...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u54	You will answer, Minister, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u55	Allow me, Minister. As far as the CEDEFOP is concerned, I have not mentioned who was in your debate, who you invited.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u56	But these are the agencies...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u57	I said that these changes were applauded by the representatives of private children's stations and by the CEDE - if possible - by the representatives of the municipalities who had to be more concerned, because under the logic of these changes the children's stations will be closed down. And it's on the air right now with the changes of yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Minister has the floor to answer. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u59	My dear colleague, these are the institutional representatives of these areas. If you tell me that I've ruled out someone, I'm going to ask for a public apology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u60	That concludes this question. We move to the third with number 1005/14-6-2016 topical question by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and National Defence, on the double-tracked refugees and immigrants in the hot spots of the Aegean islands. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Ioannis Mousalas. The honourable Member has the floor, Mr Stavros Tassos, to develop his question for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the living conditions of the incarcerated refugees and migrants on the hot spots of the Aegean islands - especially in Lesvos, Chios, Samos, but also in Kos - are unacceptable and urgent measures are needed so that they do not become explosives. The refugees and immigrants who arrived at the islands after 20 March, that is, after the European Union-Turkey Agreement, are victims of double caging: on the one hand, all refugees and immigrants who are, despite their will, in Greece and on the other, special caging at the borders of the island until the examination of asylum applications is completed. Living conditions are disastrous in often overcrowded - such as in Chios and Samos - mixed centres. And when we say'mixed', we mean detention centres for those who are in the registration and identification phase and in the name of 'hospitable' for most who have completed twenty-five days of detention - this is true since they have not been filled with prisoners - because there is, in fact, no obligation to remain in these structures. The law says that they should be left "free" within the island. They are, however, without shelter and without food and their desperation are conducting various desperate acts of survival. The major delays, therefore, in examining asylum claims - in Samos, there is only one official - and the pessimism there is for the fate of asylum claims, especially after the two decisions of the Refugee Authority rejecting the claims of two Syrian refugees, all of them intensified desperation and often lead to tensions and incidents, interventions by the MAT, injuries and damage. This has become a parallel in Lesvos. You know them and I know them. The working conditions of those working in hot spots have become difficult and dangerous. Also on the islands there are unaccompanied minors, who are either detained in hot spots or assigned to NGOs. Here I would like to ask you and clarify this? Two, three days ago when I was in Kos, I was told that, in order to be a reunion of the refugee family, the child should be invited to do so. I mean, the father can't call the kid and the mother to go to Germany if the father is in Germany. The minor child should have gone to Germany and the minor child inviting father and mother to go to Germany. Really, if that's the case, it's outrageous. This situation, of course, is taking advantage of the various racist and nazi organisations to spread their hideous theories. So we ask you, Minister, what measures will the government take to ensure that refugees, after their registration, are promoted in the countries of their final destination to dismantle the islands? We also ask, as long as they remain on the islands, for human and healthy living conditions to be ensured in open reception centres, with adequate and quality feeding, decent housing in homes, public health and special care for vulnerable groups and unaccompanied minors, direct access to asylum and international protection procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Tassos. Mr Ioannis Mousalas has the floor for a first answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u63	Mr Tasso, first of all apologies for the delay. I came directly. I think your remarks are correct. Recalling, however, earlier times, I would like to remind you of a beloved proverb of Charilaos Floraki: "Don't fly along with the dirty waters and the child, when the bathroom ends." I think - not by intent - that's what you're doing. We've been in a very difficult position. We have on our island eight thousand people who remain there until it is clear whether or not they are entitled to asylum. If they are entitled to asylum, they will be transferred to the mainland, if not, on the basis of the Europe-Turkey Agreement, back to Turkey. This does not create overpopulation and, being a Mytilian, you know that. Mytilini had days that had eight, ten and twelve thousand people on it. Today he has three thousand seven hundred. All the islands together have eight thousand. It was days when they had fifteen thousand. Every day, every day, every day! You've lived it. I've lived it. You know I've always been in the field. This has changed. Now, then, not that we have an overpopulation - we have a world that now has a different psychiatry. He came to drink water, that is to say go to Europe, which was his dream. The source's solid. He's running out of money. He feels locked up, his expectations have been voided. He's being aggressive. I would, however, say that he is entitled to be also claiming. This causes a number of clichés. It's not right that MAT operations are frequent. I think that in general we are dealing with it as much as possible and respecting the dignity of the many good people. You know that this situation also creates micromuffs. There's always in the migration flows. They're not all very good people. There are people who drink. There are people who go put drugs in the hot spots. There's a fight over there, and we've got masturbations. I sound like I'm from another planet when I say that's normal. And it's a matter of handling, how you handle it, so you can "walk" - and I don't mean to beat - the evil thing and respect the families of these desperate people. To get in, there are no closed centers. Based on our latest efforts, once they're recorded they're being held free of restriction on the island. Some who have money stay in hotels. In Mytilini too many live in Kara Tepe. We're looking to find spaces, in cooperation with local government. We are moving on to a programme so that those who declare that they want, willingly, to return to their homelands, to return. Those who have already got their right to seek asylum, are trying to move them to the mainland. And we're trying to speed up asylum procedures. A month ago, it was thirty a day. Now they've reached seventy. Target's a hundred and fifty. The unaccompanied children - I've said it before - is our great wound. I want to tell you, however, that in Mytilini we already have Madamando. The "Sunshine" opened up and hosts unaccompanied children and is about to open up to Agiasos. Our plan is in July to have built five hundred places for unaccompanied children and to have covered the problem. I will fully agree with you and will, of course, ask for your help in the fight against racism and the extreme right. You're a man who's in trouble and doesn't see it from his office. You know that there is no innocence on the part of the extreme right, there is no innocence on the part of racism. But there is a change on the part of our people. Where there was a population who was moving, he brought some money, there were benefits, there are difficulties at the moment. I think it is very natural that, together with the Communist Party of Greece, we will try to fight this phenomenon very hard, improving conditions, but also being ruthless against such moves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Congressman Stavros Tassos of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u65	Minister, just a week ago, last Thursday, I was in the village of Belogannis, Hungary. I was comparing how socialist Hungary treated refugees - in this case Greek refugees - and how capitalist Hungary and, in general, capitalist Europe - Greece, including, of course, refugees and immigrants. You know, the comparison is catalytic. There was a village open, with its squares, with its homes, with its administrative centers. People lived there perfectly equal to the natives, they were forming, they were going to universities, they had a job, they had a wage, the same as the Hungarian was getting, in this case. They were, therefore, completely equal members of the society that hosted them. And then they were countries - not only Hungary, but also the other socialist countries - that came out of a war. Today, then, we have a system. And what do we have? Barbarity, hypocrisy, cynicism. When you go to these centers, you see the wires on top of the barbed wire. Where you see greens and trees in the village of Belogannis, here you can see wires and barbed wires. I don't know if, as you said, we fly along with the water and the kid, because the kid doesn't know if they really want to take care of it. The opposite is true. For them, the child, i.e. the worker or the refugee or the immigrant, is cheap workers' hands. The 'populated' Europe, after taking everyone it needed as cheap workers - about eight hundred thousand Germans took - said: 'We close the borders and those who are here do them what you want. Throw them into the sea, turn them back. Whatever you want to do to them. How much we are interested in." That's the difference. Honestly, Minister, at the moment I see that our country and you represent this system that treats people in this way. In addition to this general, immediate measures must be taken to resolve this problem of people. In Hungary the day before I read that they drowned people. They went out of a river, stoned them, and one or two were killed. And they've ordered now, supposedly, research into what happened and so on. It cannot be treated in this way by people, and indeed by those who caused these waves of refugees, by those who went and by their interventions, have driven people out of their homes because they want to control what government they have in order to be honest bodies so that they can control oil, gas and roads. So those who provoked the war become honorers from above and say: "These here are a burden. They're criminals. We will see how many we will keep, see how many we will drive." You know very well that this is how they violate international law because, under the Geneva Agreement, refugees have the right to go to the countries of their final destination to choose those who want to go. However, these are fine letters for civilized Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Tassos. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u67	Mr Tassos, in your theoretical analysis, I could in most cases agree. However, there are practical issues that need to be managed. You make a historical mistake by comparing the coordinate fighters of the Democratic Army of Greece, who were hosted in the village "Belogiannis", which took more than ten years until they acquired village characteristics, but suffered difficulties because they were coordinates...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u68	Minister, in seven months...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u69	Let me finish, please. I don't have a point of order. I guess that's what it looks like. I'm talking to you with great respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u70	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u71	Comparing this with the migration flow and the refugee flow, i.e. thousands of coordinate fighters of the Democratic Army of Greece, who were disciplined, were hardships, until these countries can give them what they wanted and they are entitled to, are a mistaken historically. Secondly, the Geneva Convention ensures life. It's not a career treaty. I mean, you don't think I want to go to Romania, and I don't want to go to Portugal. Europe must guarantee you your life. Also, 50% of those on the islands are immigrants, who have illegally entered the country. There are international regulations. There's the country's legal obligations. And in those years in the village of "Belgiannis", if you weren't a militant fighter of the Republican Army of Greece, you didn't enter. The limitations are always there. I pay tribute to those countries that hosted the fighters. But I am trying to tell you that seeing the village of "Belogiannis" today with the village of "Belogiannis" at that time is a historic mistake. I just want to assure you again that we are not Hungary and you know it. That is why you do not have any example of saying that the refugees are petrified by the Greek Government, tortured by refugees or anything else. I am keeping from all this very positive debate which has taken place, what I have said lately: the natural position of the Communist Party of Greece is against racism, it is a firm position, as it has always shown, in order to combat extreme right and racist elements. Thank you very much. And that's what I want to believe, and I want you to believe we're together.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u73	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Muzala, Minister, the village "Belogiannis" became a record year. It was built within seven months. The village "Belogiannis" was built in seven months! Now, as far as the coordinates are concerned, don't tell us now that these people are coming here and they're here and I don't know what. Human beings are most of them. Now, there are some who are in violation of the law. In what society are there not some who are in violation of the law?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u75	I agree with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u76	We can't say these people are uncomplicated, they're screwed. And to think of who kicked them out of their homelands. Who? Those who today are honorers. It is not possible, in other words, the one who has left on your own fault, put him on the wall and say, "Look at seeing, you have to behave well." Let's think about our behavior first and then set him up on the wall and say, "You have a good attitude."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u77	Good. I think the debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Wednesday 20 April, Thursday 21 April, Friday 22 April, Monday 25 April and Thursday 5 May 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u78	The Minutes of Wednesday 20 April, Thursday 21 April, Friday 22 April, Monday 25 April and Thursday 5 May 2016 were ratified. I also have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism "Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Articles 19, 20, 29, 30, 33, 35, 40 to 46 of Directive 2013/34/EU on 'the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related business reports of certain forms, amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC' (OJ. L 189 of 29 June 2013) and in Directive 2014/95/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (EU. L 330/1 of 15 November 2014) ‘amending Directive 2013/34/EU as regards the disclosure of non-financial information and information on diversity by certain large enterprises and groups’ and other provisions of the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism’. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-23-S1-commons.u79	With the consent of this House at 11.11' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 24 June 2016 at 10 a.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
