ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 19-1-2016, the minutes of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Commission of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the Republic of Moldova (Christmas) have been ratified by the Council of the European Union.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Gara. Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the debate on the topical and urgent questions, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Friday 22 January 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 419/19-1-2016 by MP Trikala of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos to the Minister of Health on the course of the health map. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 420/19-1-2016, a topical question by MP I Athens, New Democracy, Mrs Theodoras Bakoyannis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the replacement of Directors-General at the Ministry of Finance. 3. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance about the progress of the projects for the development of the former airport of Greece. 4. The question asked by MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Constantine Steerios to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the problems of workers in the ContiTech IMAS S.A. in the First Industrial Area (BIPE). Volos. 5. The Question No 413/18-1-2016 by Congressman Pireos of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Health on the Verification of the Protocol to the Framework Convention of the World Health Organisation (WHO) on Tobacco Control. 6. The Question No 411/18-1-2016 by MP Laris of the Union of Centres Mr Georgios Katsiantoni to the Minister of Finance on the abolition of the luxury tax and the payment of a luxury tax for the private use of cars of luxury. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 421/19-1-2016, a topical question by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the schedule for the repayment of the single payment of 2015 and the compensatory 2015 of farmers. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 412/18-1-2016 by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Madame Friday (Evia) Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Health, on the coverage of blank beds in the EHS Intensive Treatment Units. 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the immediate reopening of the Recycling plant in Heraklion Crete and the re-entry of workers from WASTE SOLUTIONS. 4. The question by No. 409/18-1-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the need to maintain the PPC sub-office in Tyrnavos, Larissa. 5. The Question No 417/18-1-2016 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning the draft law on insurance which "as is essentially formulated leads to the exit of the combatant from the profession". 6. Antonis Tritsis, Member of Parliament, with number 381/12-1-2016, a topical question by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition, Ms. Harulas (Haras) Kafantaris, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the Environmental Sensitisation Park. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 349/5-1-2016 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Health, on the "private of Thrace Muslims in notices of recruitment of health personnel of the Ministry of Health". 8. The 374/11-1-2016 topical question by MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMA. Mr Ioannis Maniatis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the implementation of the N. 4162/2013 on the establishment of the EGF (National Social Solidarity Account). REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question and application for the filing of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Greek Parliament I of Athens, Mr Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the stay of Mr Kim Glen, as Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with our second question with No 400/15-1-2016.Gold Dawn. Ilias Panayotaou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the role of foreign non-governmental organisations (NGOs) in the Aegean Sea. Mr. Panayotarus has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Before I turn to the question, I should also like to congratulate the Government, Mr Dritsa, Mr Tsipras, on the sale of the port against a lentil, a price less than the debts of the two major parties, PASOK and New Democracy. The Minister has his honour today, he plays on all radios, on the Internet and his statements until a precedent. Let's hope that at some point the wish that went from the Archbishop of the calendar the day before yesterday in Theophanes to find a response. As for the question, for about a year now, our country has experienced incredible situations with illegal immigration, immigration, refugee flows, say it as you like. Although everything shows that refugees are a very small part of all invading Europe, they have exceeded every precedent. The Aegean islands accept every day thousands of these refugees, immigrants, illegal immigrants and a major role throughout this "invasion" - in and out of import - are playing the various non-governmental organisations, which hundreds of people have come to our homeland without control and are doing what they want. We're going to mention some of the cases. You all know - and the Minister too - that we have seen non-governmental jihadist organisations, such as the 'One nation', who have literally said what they wanted on the Aegean islands. If the Russians weren't telling us, "What are you doing? Do you have the jihadists on your islands and do what they want?’, we would probably still have them here and do what they wanted. We saw that a British national came too, made a mosque in Lesvos, did what he wanted, asked for money. Apparently, it's something between a gypsy and a crook. We have seen other members of non-governmental organizations, which were armed and indeed some SYRIZA officials, MPs, went to defend them. We saw a member of a non-governmental organization with intercepting equipment. We saw members of non-governmental organizations arrested in stealing lifeboats. We saw others photographing secrets - in and out of import - parts of the islands. And we saw others, most of whom come, they're just being photographed to show that they're doing their work to get their money from the respective governments, even though they don't belong to non-governmental organisations. The culmination of all is a non-governmental organisation, the MOAS, which came with its hundreds of millions of euros - now how is that done? - has been founded in 2013 and has come with an incredible equipment. It has a ship, a ship of which the Port Body does not have. But that's the least. It's a ship, which could possibly be a perfect war weapon for the Navy, with monitoring systems and all that. They are the same, who, through their websites, guide refugees - since the Minister wants us to call them'refugees', those of them who are, even though Mr Muzalas admitted that most of them no longer have anything to do with refugees - are directing them and telling them which islands they will go to. We saw TV footage on YouTube, called Agathonisi: "You know, because there are no lights, we'll open the lights of the ship and come here." We see them literally doing what they want in a state - inside or out of import - in a sovereign state. And the most dreadful of all is that we have seen that in this NGO as well as in another NGO, "Watch the Med", but also in others, if the link to the appearance is chosen...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Comrade, please, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u6	...then the map that appears - and I am ending with it, Mr President - has the Aegean on the twenty-fifth parallel, just as Turkey's pursuits want, which for half a century claims to overthrow the status quo in the Aegean with its division and exploitation. Is the Minister, firstly, asking what the Greek state intends to do, what the relevant and co-legislative ministries will do about how exactly the operational capabilities of those NGOs should be defined here in our home country and, secondly, what the state body is controlling the activity of these organisations, their human resources and their equipment, so as to determine whether their behaviour is consistent with rescue or extends to acts of sovereignty, as they all show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u7	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I had a question text, which, in any case, - although it was unilateral, maximized the secondary one and concealed the capital, had a signal. I have now dealt with an oral report on this question in a way that I do not want to describe. In any case, however, this is not the case. Let's calm down. patriotism is love at home. Nationalism is hatred in each other's homeland. So let us make things clear to know what national socialism means, what nazism, what nationalism means, what all that means. In this case, non-governmental organisations have played an extremely important and recognised role by the authorities of the Greek state, but also internationally, as organisations with transparency that save human lives or help FRONTEX and the Greek authorities in subsequent care, identification of migrants and refugees and organising the treatment of the refugee and immigration problem. And in this respect, cooperation is structured and organised, in accordance with the rules of the Greek authorities, and any events that may exceed this legal and rules of cooperation are controlled, monitored, identified and there is no question. However, there is one issue in the past twenty-one month - about a month - a generalised attack on non-governmental organisations and, in general, the whole deterrent system from falling refugees and migrants from traders' circles, mainly on the other side, but also cooperation is needed to do this. We should be very careful. We have faced such a wave in many respects recently. We have eighteen cases in the last quarter - three and a half months - which only rescuers of non-governmental organisations saved some four hundred human lives, which were in direct danger, two hundred and seventy-five in Lesbos, ninety-two in Agathonisi and others. These are elements from the Port Corps Operations Room. It's not journalistic, it's not anywhere. They are official information of the services responsible of the Greek State. So I would like us not to reverse things. The Greek state and the services are there. We have a great conquest that there has not been one without identification over the past few years, from about one million people entering our country. Even these cases of the Paris massacre had been fully identified by the Greek authorities. With the online systems these data had been provided. But if there is no full European use of these elements. The Greek state and the Greek authorities had fully responded. After all, as soon as the information has been submitted by the French authorities, the Greek authorities are in a position to respond and to cross-check. It's no accident. All this has been done with superhuman efforts by the officials of the Port Body, the Greek Police, the NGOs and the self-government authorities, to an organised, as organised as possible, system of solidarity, compliance with the rules of international humanism in accordance with international conventions, and safeguarding the country's sovereign rights and border surveillance. Everything else is an artificial climate of excitement and insecurity - which our country will pay if it really dominate - and it is exploited by a number of people who are following this policy in Europe who want us to follow, namely racism, anti-refugeeism and intolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, hatred for each other's homeland, but also for their own, the NGOs themselves, who took the lead in the various oranges and other revolutions in homelands and countries where they functioned properly and provoked what they caused. And you and your government have already said the same thing before. As also before you became a government, you said that FRONTEX has no place in Greece and now you are fully adopting the positions, values and principles of FRONTEX and those that impose it in our homeland. I'll say one more thing. You have expressed the work of the various NGOs. Potentially some of them may have real human feelings. In their vast majority, however, research, rescue is done by those who give it everything to save everyone who is drowning in the Aegean Sea. It is a job that does it successfully in the Port House, although it does not have the means, it has no money, it has nothing at all. You're hitting the alarm every day. Like the Greek seafarer, fishermen and local residents who have nothing to do with non-governmental organisations. With what you have said, you have claimed that everything shows that there is a normality and that everything is going well and that we are trying to 'artificial inconvenience', as you have said. Do you really see what happens on the islands of the eastern Aegean, the islands that accept the flows of refugees? You see the local economies where they're going? Do you see what happens with tourism, which is our second largest heavy industry, where prevalence has fallen by 50% compared with other regions? Do you see all this? This does not seem to be an artificial climate of inconvenience, as you said. One more thing. Just that some non-governmental organisations, such as MOAS, but others, adopt the Turkish foreign policy of the 25th parallel of the Aegean separation in two, should automatically be a reason to leave our country, to show them that we are a sovereign state and not everyone can, either from hobbies, either "love" or for other reasons, come to our homeland and do what they want. Finally, if you wanted to solve this problem both as Greece and as the European Union, where we are a member and you represent our country, you should not have voted to give Turkey 3 billion to be given, nor to become a hot spot in Greece, neither in Italy nor elsewhere. It would simply solve the problem with hot spot directly in Turkey without suffocating people, young people, old people, women, children, anyone. If you wanted and want there are many real solutions rather than all that create tensions in our homeland between Greeks, between foreigners, among all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u11	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I am pleased that the tons have fallen, even if some things have been maintained. For FRONTEX, yes, we did have criticism and we must all have criticism. But now the FONTEX forces through the new data are called upon to play another role. I say, however, that all FRONTEX forces operating in the Aegean Sea are under the supervision and control of the Port Body. There is no FRONTEX vessel that does not have a port officer who sets the limits and rules. This must be maintained, because various projects that are currently being discussed may also open up channels of dispute. I should therefore like to say, in order to inform the Greek people, that non-governmental organisations are coming, filing documents, consulting the authorities and the Port Body. Especially as far as I'm concerned, and I can confirm, they're certified rescuers most of them. Others acting on land, health and other care procedures follow other rules, but similar. In other words, there is a framework under which no non-governmental organisation can act with its vessels without the cooperation of the Port Authority, without the notification of where it is moving, how it moves, in which area and what it is aimed at. This is all agreed and respected. From there on, since special mention has been made, I can tell you that this organisation, MOAS, which has recently come to Greece and has a high degree of readiness, education, equipment and all that, has made a request. He is a member of an international organisation which is controlled and where our country is working with him and which really has the guarantees. From there on, there is no reason, since it has all these prerequisites, which were checked by fixed and systematic correspondence, to act in Greece. It did not come that way, “saw light and entered.” In this direction, it has contributed significantly. Everything is controlled and monitored. As for the rest mentioned in the text on different mapping and all of this, this NGO, to which the question, which has such forms, does not act in Greece. It's a website. No participation, no physical presence in Greece. From this point of view, for what further need for coordination there is - and there is a need for further coordination and upgrading of cooperation - a joint ministerial decision is already under way. I have signed it by the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr Mousal and Mr Vernadakis. In this context we have already set up a Steering Committee headed by the Secretary-General of the Aegean and Island Policy Giannelis as coordinator, the Mayor of Lesvos, the Port Minister of Mytilini, the Police Director of Lesvos, the representative of the General Secretariat of Population and Social Cohesion and the President of the Medical Association of Lesvos. This Coordinating Committee undertakes the even better coordination of all non-governmental organisations and of the volunteers and of all the activities that are being developed, first pilots for Lesvos and then we will see for the other islands. I think it is important to work together to have the best possible result, and the rest are meaningless hazards. In the Minutes, Mr President, two texts. One is the table of rescues by non-governmental organisations, and the other is the map of the points that each of them is authorised to attempt. [[At this point, the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, Mr Theodoros Dritsas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u13	Thank you. We go to the fifth, with number 397/15-1-2016, a timely question for the first cycle of the MEP II Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks, George Lazarides, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the "insurance information of engineers". The State Secretary, Mr. Petropoulos, will answer. Mr. Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. In 2010, when we all started this major crisis - our society and our homeland - the main actors, the orchestras in this crisis chose to hit one of the most dynamic sectors of the economy, the construction worker, who not only did not create deficits or shape this high public debt, on the contrary, was a potential industry that was pushing up GDP and even gave jobs to more than two hundred jobs. I'd say this needs to be investigated. Why was this sector chosen to be affected more than the government at that time? Because, in fact, it was also the main link of the chain of our economy. By hurting him, we see that all these problems have been created. In any case, the effect of this attack on the construction industry was to reduce the building activity by 85% and this major problem had an impact on 95% of the self-employed engineers, who were mainly involved in building activity either by issuing building permits, either by supervising or as engineers. It was in the building industry that much. As a result, engineers now have a problem with the payment of their insurance contributions and we see the phenomenon of 60% of engineers owed to TSMEDE and the even worse phenomenon, about ten thousand fellow engineers have chosen to delete by their own decision from TEI, because they no longer have any working interest. At the same time that engineers face all these problems, it is another obstacle to trying to find work. Insurance information. It is essential, Mr Minister, even for private projects. According to Law 3518/2006, Article 27(4), (5) and (6) concerning public and private projects is therefore necessary to ensure that a project is carried out or even studied. It is clear that this law aims to force insured persons to pay their insurance contributions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, with the current data it is impossible - especially young engineers - to be consistent with the payment of insurance contributions, especially at the levels that are currently in place and which have been shaped earlier, of course. It's what we've been saying here so many times about what was coming under the carpet, now the carpet's up and we find it in front of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u15	You have your dentistry, Mr. President. Put it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u16	I would like your tolerance, Mr President, for a minute and I shall end. I would therefore ask you, Minister, firstly, to amend this law so that the engineers who, because of the crisis, cannot obtain insurance information. Secondly, and I am ending here, the unconditional medical treatment for all insured persons who are incapable of indebtedness of any insurance debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 8th Amarousio High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The State Secretary, Mr Petropoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Lazaridis, you have described the grim situation in the field of engineers and building, of course, because the building has shrinked as an activity, so that all this can happen as you mentioned it. However, what must not happen is to make matters worse by transferring things to the detriment of social security, as well as to the detriment of wage earners, the problems of distorted competition, which are already a self-evident consequence of the economic situation that exists. You know that in times of crisis, when economic progress goes away - and that is what we want to achieve - social security is being pushed too much, in other words by reducing contributions to it, but also wages. We've both seen it happen in our country. And wages have shrinked to a degree that cannot be tolerated, and social security has huge deficits. On this occasion, I must stress again that the country must move towards a social security system that has the characteristics of social solidarity and solves problems like those described by you, the resolution of which will facilitate economic development, because the measures we take in the sphere of labour and social security are measures which ultimately facilitate the strengthening of the country's productive effort, but with fair rules. If we allow social security to be pushed further, which is already suffering from undeclared and black labour, and we have a problem of a lack of some EUR 6 billion from uninsured work, the problem will get worse. And we must not allow this to happen. I understand what you're saying. It is indeed an accurate finding, but the measures we need to take should not lead to even more uninsured people being. Indeed, the payment of contributions to CSMEI is a prerequisite for working on the subject of civil engineering, architects and all these specialties. It is a provision of the CSMEDE, but it is also a condition for healthy competition between engineers. If some people pay and others don't pay contributions, they both get to work together, you realize that it will be a commotion and the wages of engineers, because some will be able to work without contributions. You realize that they will have a privilege over others. As far as health benefits are concerned, we see the measures to be taken and we take measures. I shall refer to the opportunity of your dentistry in this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u20	I would like to add a few additional elements. First of all, Minister, I shall refer to the issue of medical care, especially to some colleagues, because I experience it because I am an engineer myself. We are talking about a humanitarian crisis in some colleagues themselves and their families who have absolutely no work. We see that the merger, which has been completely the wrong way since 2008, of the TSMEDE with the funds of lawyers, notaries and doctors has been dramatically reduced already, while there has been no problem in the industry. As we said earlier, the construction industry was a dynamic sector, which was moving forward and pulling forward, and what we are saying, the whole economy. More than two hundred jobs were maintained, respectively, industries, crafts and others around this sector. Here I would like to give you some other information, Minister. Since the summer of 2011, there has been an increase in the contributions of the new engineers, namely, those who entered after 1993, and as a result today of this crisis, which already existed since 2011, and no one can understand what thinking while the work had been reduced, some have decided to raise the contributions - to push a large number of engineers or to suspend the activity and to choose elsewhere to deal with something else or even to leave abroad. The increase in contributions for pre-1993 is 15% in 2011, as formed, while for post-1993 it begins with 27% and reaches 207%, Minister. In addition, an additional contribution of EUR 10 per month was imposed on unemployment. Tragic irony is the fact that thousands of young and old unemployed and fired engineers are paying for it without even one of them joining the OAED unemployment fund, even if their books are closed, because they cannot join. So we're seeing a theater of irrationality. They have brought laws, they have increased contributions and others that have no sense of reason. With this in mind I ask you, Minister, because I know that you are a science fighter, you know from a real economy and others, your sensitivity, so that we can relieve these colleagues. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u21	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Lazaridis, you have had the opportunity to attend my seats in Thessaloniki on Friday last week where we met and you know my views, you know the Government's views. We are trying with the bill, which we will introduce for social security, to solve all these problems that you have described. I have to say that all this situation that has dominated the so-called social security system has brought too many problems and causes many problems and the collection of contributions, because there is no rationalisation, because they are called upon to pay the same contribution and those who can earn EUR 5,000 a year and those who can make EUR 500,000 each year. They pay the exact same contribution! That's what happens to lawyers and doctors. Most of all, however, the problem is explosive to engineers and lawyers. You're right, it's not the problems that existed, but that's what's happening. And one makes the following reasoning together: why, since the CSME and the EFF had capital adequacy, were - especially the engineers - an extra burden on increases since 2011 and then on such crisis conditions? I wonder why those who dominate this attack against our own attempt to elect the system and make it a social security system are those who then created the conditions for this crisis and for the social security system. The people who imposed the levy are talking about fewer contributions today, when we are going to a system which actually elects the contributions. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I must say that this practice is a tactic for destabilising in general our efforts at all levels. That's why yesterday's attack on my wife's law firm, where they destroyed everything there the people who sent them with the known hoods. Finally, on the occasion of this debate, the call that every person in the country must make is to discuss and give solutions to all these problems which you have described and which are on the one side. It is an example of what I am going to say. From the choice we gave, the three lower categories to pay lower premiums in three months, even in September only four thousand engineers rushed. Of the twenty thousand who went, only four thousand were debtors. The remaining sixteen thousand simply chose to pay less. This goes on to say that, by the large number of engineers who had to make contributions to the CSMEDE, they could not even pay those lower contributions. I would once again ask you, on the occasion of this question, all the actors and socialists and politicians and political parties, above all, to look at how we will resolve this issue, this difficult problem that exists in social security, to create capital adequacy and reserves. I ask that they reread the plan and the proposals we have made. We have already proposed - and this will be done - a provision which sees far more positively the lower payment of contributions to young ages, to those who are already starting. We are going to make arrangements and we are going to make arrangements, which really determine the contribution to the extent of the free-professional income possibilities, without again losing capital. As far as health is concerned, I have already prepared a provision, which we will introduce with the Social Security Act, which will extend for another year for those who are uninsured with family incomes of up to EUR 12 000 to have full medical care. Of course, there is care for all the others who are uninsured to have medical and hospital care, in accordance with provisions already in place. However, I stress the need to discuss seriously, because problems cannot wait. We have to solve them now. We must move on to the composition of the proposals and we expect all the parties in this House to propose and they are the ones who can do better to create good conditions for social security in our country, so that these phenomena do not happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, too. We move to the sixth under number 390/12-1-2016 timely question for the first cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the position of the Greek Government for Turkey's nuclear programme. The question will be answered by the State Secretary, Mr Mardas. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are being given the opportunity here today in Parliament within the framework provided for in the Constitution for the exercise of our duty as Vice-Presidents to exercise parliamentary control and we invite you to present us with Greece's official position on Turkey's nuclear programme. Minister, I would draw your attention to you, as this is a very sensitive issue, as you can see, which has not been dealt with until now with the necessary seriousness by the Greek Governments, and the burden on your own government is being placed on behalf of the Greek people and the Hellenic Republic, the danger of Turkish expansionist policy, which, together with the clearest deficit in the neighbouring country's democracy, creates the conditions for uncontrolled situations in the wider region of Southeast Europe and the Middle East. The current geostrategic analysis takes into account the following: Turkey has dismantled a Russian aircraft, Russia has wished not to have to use its nuclear arsenal, Iran is no longer under sanctions for its nuclear programme, North Korea has announced that it has a hydrogen bomb, the Islamic state has money from oil smuggling and is in permanent armament. Also, in addition, the Islamic state has no borders, as you know, and the reason is that according to the twisted interpretation of their faith texts it is their obligation to do what is humanly possible, but also that it removes human nature and even has small children, so that the Caliphatian borders are constantly growing. All of this reinforces our concerns that it is now easy for Turkey to obtain a nuclear arsenal, following last September's revelation that German secret services were following Turkey, as they were confident that there is strong will and strong determination on the part of the Turkish political leadership to use the allegedly falsified research program for the acquisition of a nuclear weapon. I hope that my question will be the reason why the political world of Turkey should respond together to the need to consult and organise our arguments in the fight that I propose to take as a Greek Parliament, to stop the creation of nuclear power plants in Turkey, which are sure to be used to create a nuclear arsenal. Our certainty is derived from the fact that Turkey refuses to give the waste of these plants. It states that it will undertake to bury them on its own, without any European international control. One thing is certain: what Turkey says is garbage, not to ask where it will bury them, I say to you that it is the raw material for the creation of an atomic weapon and you, Minister, know it very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Mardas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to give you some information showing the outline of Turkey's relations under this programme. Greece is following everything that is being done in Turkey, through the International Atomic Energy Agency and everything that is relevant to this programme is part of the European specifications as defined by the 'EURATOM' and the International Atomic Energy Agency. Also, there is the Nuclear Safety Regulators Group, which monitors the entire programme. Greece and Turkey have ratified the Non-Proliferation Treaty and have signed the recent Protocol of Increased Inspections of the Atomic Energy Agency. All of what I said to you describes the framework in which both Greece and Turkey moves in the field of nuclear energy. Greece, of course, is not facing a problem of setting up a nuclear power plant, so our interest in Turkey is. Turkey, according to what has been signed, has first of all the right to develop a nuclear power plant for peaceful purposes. Turkey has developed a nuclear power plant programme in the framework of projects with Russia. Her first attempt in 2010 was to create a nuclear plant in Akuyu, South Turkey. This plant has been founded, but it has stopped evolving, due to the events between Turkey and Russia. On the other hand, as far as the fears that exist for the use of nuclear energy for purposes other than peaceful purposes are concerned, Russia has given a strong guarantee to Greece and Cyprus that there will be no slight chance of dispersal of nuclear know-how, since such provisions provided for Russia's exclusive involvement in the nuclear fuel cycle. This is the thinst part of the whole story of nuclear reactors. Therefore, we have in mind the framework which defines the creation of nuclear power plants and also the fact that there is between the various protocols associated with the agreement of Turkey's accession to the European Union, the Protocol with number 15, which refers to energy, and this Protocol provides for the strict application of the acquis communautaire in respect of Turkey's nuclear energy. Of course you will tell me that Turkey is not a Member State at the moment. It is potentially possible, and we do not know what will happen. It is, however, an associated state with the European Union. Therefore, the European Union's intervention can be spectacular in this respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u28	Minister, we have rather a different perception on a number of issues. I'm just going to have to tell you our point of view on this. Maybe we should understand things a little better. And I have to do that by respecting the confidentiality of some information that we may have, you may have, and only refer to published facts. I will try to explain to you how Turkey sees its foreign policy at the moment. Turkey launched a water pipeline in occupied Cyprus. This has currently given the Turkish Cypriots the right to drink cheap water, which comes from the depths of Asia. On the contrary, Cypriots on their side, drink bottled water and bathe with water brought by water from Israel. Turkey upgrades its relationship with Israel, by making imminent energy agreements with it, agreements that do not take into account the discomforts - to say this somehow - Greece. Turkey is forced to accept the Assad regime. He may also sit down to accept a Kurdish state in its south. Turkey allows human trafficking on its shores, allows arms trafficking, allows oil smuggling. You know, basically, about the moves of the Turkish coastguard. As all of this is true, Turkey can sit at the negotiating table as an equal member of the European Parliament and moves the finger to the West by criticising it of the mistakes it may have made in its policy on the Middle East. Unfortunately, for the Turkish officials there are people who are in Europe who have taken over the excessive ambition of Turkish leadership and they, from their side, are moving. I was really hoping to hear from your side that Greece condemns Turkey's efforts to uncontrolled nuclear waste management, because this is essentially its objective and objective, and on the other hand, that the Greek Government will take an initiative to inform European capitals in full of the relevant issues. Europe must also, in turn, see whether there is a real risk that is created, since Turkey is allowed to manage nuclear waste on its own. I insist that you communicate your actions on maintaining security in the Aegean. As you know, Russia had financed Turkey's nuclear programme by the collapse of the Russian aircraft. But it's been stopped ever since. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Last March, as you quite rightly said, in March of '15', while we were all engaged in the ineffectiveness of the negotiations and not the 'first time left' - half a minute, Mr President, a little intolerant - Russia was celebratingly launching this particular nuclear power plant with Russian money, which we demanded, at that time we would be pleading to take that time to help. If the Russian aircraft were not destroyed by the Turks, this programme informs you that it would continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u29	Put a perfect one, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u30	Yes, Mr. President. We have, for our part, an issue with regard to the issue of nuclear waste management. Will you let the Turks bury their nuclear waste - if they acquire nuclear power plants - on their own without control? Will you do that? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u31	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u32	Greece is following the whole development and as I described to you - and it is no accident that I described it to you - there is a strict framework within which Turkey must move within its nuclear power plants. Uncontrolled use of nuclear energy is considered impossible in Turkey, bearing in mind Turkey's relations with the European Union and the rest of the world. It's not an isolated country. It is a country that has trade relations, financial relations, relations associated with the movement of people and capital. Therefore, in addition to any commitments there are one of the international treaties signed by Turkey itself, there is also a set of economic relations which prevent any uncontrolled use of nuclear energy, considering that any uncontrolled use can even lead to economic sanctions. The waste is therefore part of this process. So the whole thing is being watched not only by us, watched by all the neighbors. Israel also has a say in this story, because in the event of any accident, you can understand that it is not just Turkey that is going to suffer too much damage. Everyone around the region and Israel will be hurt much closer to southern Turkey than we are. On the subject you raised on the Turkish finger movement, all I have to say to you is that Turkey after Greece in 1963 was the second country to sign an association agreement with the European Community at that time. We have arrived at this time and we are still discussing the question of accession, when countries at that time had not even signed the association agreement, and they are now joining the European Union. Turkey's strength therefore understands that it has certain limits, regardless of whether it is communication that this power is presenting too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u33	I would like to inform the House that the first under number 402/18-1-2016 timely question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Anna Karamanlis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the investigation of the causes of death of four years in a hospital in Heraklion, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. Also, the second question under number 399/15-1-2016 of the First Cycle of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning the "priority of Greeks in Himara and Saints Saranta", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The first under No. 403/18-1-2016 topical question by MP Evros of New Democracy Mr. Anastasios Purchasias State to the Minister of Health, on the question of dealing with the operating problems of the Dumos Hospital, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The third, with number 404/18-1-2016, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the operation of the Agrinio and Messology Hospitals, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. These questions relate to the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Polakis. As far as the Minister is concerned, Mr. Xanthos is present himself and he will answer. I would ask, however, that we be within the time frames, because there are enough questions to be discussed. The third with number 391/12-1-2016 will now be discussed, with a top-level question from the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health, about the lack of chemo therapy in public hospitals. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, allow me to speak to you. Before entering the question, I would like to ask both the Bureau and the Government to consider a parliamentary practice which has been carried out. Minister, many times in the past questions from you as a Member and other colleagues from all parties were answered by any member of the political leadership, given that there was a consensus. If this is possible, Mr President, more questions can be answered and parliamentary control better progress. I'm making a suggestion, and now I'm going to the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u35	Mrs Christophilopoulou, it is unfair, however, to address the current Minister and...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u36	First of all, I do not denounce the present Minister and thank him for being here. That's self-evident.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u37	Because the Deputy Minister isn't here. It's a little unfair. We're moving on now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u38	I do not think I have succeeded against anyone by making a proposal which makes it easier. He's not blocking the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u39	Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u40	So I come to the point, Minister. You know well that our cancerous fellow citizens have also been threatened by an additional risk of cancer that they face. Over the past few weeks there has been a huge lack of chemotherapeutic drugs in public hospitals in the country. This meant that these people filled with anguish as to whether or not they could continue their treatment in time. These people give a daily struggle for their lives - you, as a doctor, know it best - a fight against the scourge of cancer and must at least not be deprived of their drugs. The issue, Mr President, has been made more widely known by a complaint from the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, but also through corresponding charges and complaints from the patient associations. Minister, this is unprecedented, it's unprecedented. The National Health System has too many problems and has had before you take over. I don't like to even beautify myself. But we had never lived in this situation before. I would like to ask you honestly, to answer here in Parliament and through the House in the world: what happened and we had this terrible suffering? Whatever the health workers who are fighting and who have lifted up their hands can't face this, as can you either from positions of either government or parliament, no one can understand the pain and anguish of these people. Let's say that clearly. So please tell us here, firstly, what happened, how this incident happened. This incident - and I mention it in the written text of my question, Mr President - concerns, apart from cancer patients, and other patients, such as a group of the seropositives in need of antiretroviral medicines. You know, Minister, that they can only remain a few days without proper treatment. We want, then, firstly, to know what caused the problem, secondly, how you will deal with it and thirdly, Minister, what you will do so that this problem will not be presented again in a few months' time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u41	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the question. It is an opportunity to respond to a real problem which was created at the beginning of the year, not suddenly, but because it changed the status quo that has so far been in supplying expensive medicines to public hospitals. This change was part of the agreement with lenders and an element of the prerequisites for the first phase to get the EUR 2 billion dose. For the first time, therefore, the concept of a closed budget for public hospital medical expenditure entered. So far there has been a closed budget and a clawback mechanism only for extra-university expenditure. Now this has been added. This new system had to be implemented as from 1 January and in some large hospitals, which treat these categories of patients to whom you referred, there was no timely preparation on the part of the services, pharmacy etc. in order to provide adequate medicines, because these medicines had been used since the previous period to obtain them from the EPOY pharmacies, to indicate "delay" to patients, to trouble patients and to go to the EPOY pharmacies, to take their medications and to return to hospitals to do their treatment. With this arrangement, this ends. There has been provision for increased funding in hospitals and overall for their operating costs, in particular for the medicine. The story with the "delayed" - and here let me say that it is completely inaccurate what you said is happening for the first time - happened in a very large outbreak in 2012-2013 and then the government's political leadership was forced to find its "delay". That is precisely because the hospital budgets were cut down at that time, this solution was found to be passed on to the cost of buying these medicines to the EEA. That he created a problem he created. It was a very important arrhythmia that burdened and troubled some dozens of cancer patients in some hospitals, not all over the country. This really makes us sad and insulting and disturbing and exposes us as political leadership, but also as people of public care that we believe is due in particular to such critical diseases, which are at stake in people's lives, citizens have easy access and decent care in public hospitals. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The problem, first of all, has been fully normalized. There has been a circular, there have been interventions, there has been diligent monitoring on the part of the health regions these days. The adequacy of this type of medicine in hospital pharmacies has been fully restored at this time. However, we need an increased control and surveillance mechanism, so as not to escape expenditure during the year and, because the budget is closed, we do not have problems with the company supply. This mechanism is being formed in these days. We had a special meeting yesterday on this subject. We will try to intervene in demand control. We extend the information system of electronic prescribing and prescribing hospital medicinal products. In other words, there will be an extension of the application of the IRR and the hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u43	You have a second word, Minister, and you have two more questions to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u44	I shall conclude, Mr President. We believe that in this way we will actually have a smooth drug flow in populations of patients who really depend on these drugs and need them absolutely.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the Educational Programme "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, nineteen students and students and an educational attendant from the 2nd Graduate School of Gatsi. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, I am pleased that the Minister is giving an explanation and informing the House and me personally that I have asked the timely question. I would like to ask Mr Xanthos - because we have democracy and I believe, Mr President, that all of us here, all of us here, the democratic, the constitutional wings of this House, will fight to stay and deepen this democracy - when the day after tomorrow will be from this side, because the chairs you know about democracy are changing, doing what we are doing now and not occupying hospitals. He did not do so personally, but his deputy has shown the field of glorious violence, pre-conflicts, hysteres, screams and other sentences, which are inappropriate to our democracy. Minister, you have described the problem, you have said that personally and you have said how to solve it. But I want to be a little hesitant. And I would like to ask you honestly: why did you speed up making the ministerial decision, barley, on 8 January? If, Mr President, this decision had been made in early December, what the Minister said would not have been done and admitted to it a few weeks ago. I won't tell you about the lenders or anything. I will only tell you that it had to be three or four weeks before the time, in 2015, you have prepared the ministerial decision and so the hospitals have the time. Because, Minister, on 8 January, the decision was taken, the hospitals were asked overnight literally to supply the medicines. So how would they be supplied? It was obvious that this delay would bring this alalum to hospitals and this not only suffering, but despair and despair to patients. Secondly, you know very well that there was a problem in the past and changed the system through EOPY. Then of course I said what you did, we won't follow you. What's the matter now? It is a solution within the framework of your agreement. We will not dispute now, although we have voted against and indicated ways to negotiate. You could and can still reverse the state of closed budgets and clawback and go back to the therapeutic protocols. That is a proposal, Minister. Think about it. We are making this proposal with the awareness and the difficulties it has, but also because you have now had the courage to say about the e-prescription that you and your extradition, SYRIZA, were voting against after abomination. Now, today, not only do you invoke it, but you broaden it and you do well. I will not criticize you for that. You're right. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by asking the Minister one more thing. It is well known, Minister, that hospitals currently owe 2 billion. It is also known that there are no funds in the budget for hospitals because they have enormous needs for hospitals, you see them, you know, we live them. Right now, how do you guarantee us that this problem will soon - although I have heard you say that you have channelled some resources into hospitals, I do not know whether or not this has already happened, will you answer me - so that it will not come again a few months later, given that the hospitals owe 2 billion to the companies? I am not in favour of companies, but at some point we have to deal with the situation as it is, with realism, and I await your proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u47	The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u48	My dear colleague, paralogy really do think it is no good at this time. The life and the state of each and the political forces and individuals have been politically valued. And society has decided and made a very important and critical choice twice a year. On the record now, there is a data framework. This is the result of the arrangements provided for in the agreement. There's a roof in the hospital medical expenditure. That means practically a closed budget. The agreement, in other words, says that if we exceed the threshold, which is fixed, which is EUR 570 million for hospital medicinal products, the difference will be borne by pharmaceutical companies. The expenditure ceiling for public hospitals this year is EUR 600 million, last year was EUR 459 million. Just because we predicted the transport of these expensive medicines to hospitals back, we significantly increased the cost limit for public hospitals. After all, 1,388 billion last year was the budget for the operational costs of hospitals. This year is 1,672 billion. This, my dear colleague, is not a towel budget. It is a visible reinforcement of the public health system for the first time after six years. That's the reality. We therefore say that this difficult framework can be tackled without side effects and problems if there is significant intervention in demand control and demand control can be obtained by expanding the information system with hospital protocols and SPC filters, which will intervene precisely and limit the provocative demand, which, anyway, is limited to hospital medicines. We were going to have a special meeting yesterday, in the presence of HR. There will be coordination and surveillance mechanism, with the synergy of both the U.S. and the hospitals' pharmacys and the IDUs and the EEAS, which will also have a real time control over the delivery of medicinal products by the companies and be sure that we will ensure with nails and teeth that the necessary medicine will not be missed by the patients in our home country. It is a matter of honour and dignity for us, it is also a question of social cohesion and sensitivity, towards citizens who really have no choice today than public care. I would also say here that with the regulation that we are promoting in the bill - which was frozen before holidays and will return very soon to Parliament - for the health care of uninsured people, we will also fill a gap which was very important in the care of uninsured cancer patients. Of course, much of them were, in fact, treated with sensitivity from public hospitals, even irregularly, but this will now become officially registered and others. Of course another aspect is that we must intervene in the price negotiations. It's not just enough to control the demand. There is also a need for serious intervention in price negotiations, especially for expensive medicines. These days we are setting up the negotiating committee - I think next week we will be announcing it - and there will also be a restraining of expenditure, so that we do not have any side effects and there will be a smooth functioning of the drug market, especially in hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u49	This negotiation has to be done, although it should have been done. We move to the tenth with number 382-12-1-2016 topical question from the Z's Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health, on the problems of anti-plant vaccination in Greece. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. As you know, the anti-physical vaccination in our country - and according to the National Vaccine Programme - is carried out at the age of five to six, free of charge, for all children, through the anti-physical centres of hospitals or health centres, through visitors working there, on the basis of a plan drawn up at the beginning of each school year. The question that arises is this: We are now almost in the middle of the second school year, which the vaccination programme is not conducted due to the lack of provision of the Services with the vaccine, the well-known BCG, but also tuberculin, which is necessary for both first vaccination and diagnostic access to the clinical practice. Indicative of the problem that has arisen over the last two or three years is Larisa, in this case, where for the third year - and we have been counting since this year - children are not vaccinated. The children of Class I were not vaccinated, and if they are summed up with a large number of children who have not been vaccinated in the previous two years, i.e. children who are currently in the second and third grades of grade, the figure is about four thousand children in the city of Larissa, not to say about the other towns of the prefecture, where there is evidence recorded in health centers, as far as unvaccinated children are concerned, i.e. about 2/3 of the children in the area of Larissa Prefecture are inconsistent with the anti-physical vaccine. Of course, there is a similar problem in other regions of our country, such as, for example, in the municipalities of Thessaloniki, for which, not least, a reference was made in October, which, Mr President, was not answered by the Ministry, even in writing, as a reference.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Lambroulis, it's a clear question. The Minister will answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u52	The question is what action will be taken by the Ministry of Health to proceed with the supply and free vaccination of all children from the structures of the vaccination centres, but also to re-operate under the responsibility of the State, which have been closed down with permanent staff, sufficient to meet the needs of the vaccination programme and, thirdly, to ensure that all the increased risk groups in our country are also vaccinated at the same time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u53	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u54	My dear colleague, you know very well because of the specialty that tuberculosis is a disease very much related to the socio-economic conditions of people in various countries. This is why, particularly in developing countries, poor, suffering from war and hunger, there are very large percentages in the general population, that is, the impact of the disease on the general population is too great. Our country, fortunately, does not belong to these countries. The World Health Organization does not consider that there is a endemic problem of tuberculosis in Greece, despite the fact that in recent years there has been an increased record of cases, which are of course officially declared to the CEDEFOP and the Ministry and are monitored. These cases mainly involve special population groups such as people in penitentiaries, i.e. prisoners, users of intravenous drugs - they went along with the 2012-2013 AIDS explosion - such as Roma populations and, of course, migrants coming from areas with increased incidence indicators of tuberculosis, such as mainly Southeast Asian countries - Afghanistan, Pakistan, Bangladesh - but also some of the neighbouring countries. So we know the picture. The problem with vaccination has now been created in recent years. It's not this year's problem. The reason is that there is a monopoly, in essence a Greek company, which imports the vaccine and the tuberculin from a Danish company and then provides it to the "Paster", which is the body which distributes the vaccines and the tuberculosis to all public services and mainly to the health services of the regions. There were problems, therefore, as production had been reduced by the Danish Institute and this whole process was delayed. There have also been financial problems with regard to the financing of 'Paster', which we have now discussed with the new administration and we have begun to deal with. Last year there was an anti-physiological vaccination and control throughout the country. In some areas there have been delays or even the population has not been adequately covered. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I have information from the region of Thessaly, not especially from Larissa, which the Office tells me last year that five thousand seven hundred doses of tuberculin were allocated to the Region of Thessaly and ten thousand three hundred doses of BCG. What we have done these days in consultation with RAFARM, namely this company, which is the only Greek company to import these products, is to increase the availability within the next two weeks. In other words, we will have a hundred and fifty thousand doses of tuberculin immediately available and forty thousand doses of BCG. I believe that in this way, even in the middle of the year, we will cover the primary school population of the 1st grade, which is where there is a sign from the National Committee for Vaccines to make the vaccine. In any case, you know very well that there is one - or even marginal - stock in hospitals, to use the handkerchief, i.e. tuberculin reaction, and as a diagnostic agent, and to become an infectious vaccination in cases where it is needed, even in newborns that have a family history.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u55	Minister, there is a problem with time management. I guess this is where you should start the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u56	Thank you for that point, Mr President. I will try in my second speech not to have to make the same observation to me. I think that this is how a real problem begins to normalise and we are trying in cooperation with the services involved to deal with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the Private General School "The Greek Education". The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Lambroulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened to the Minister for this timely question. With regard to tuberculosis worldwide, of course, the data are submitted, they are known by the World Health Organisation. But we are saying this. The Minister said that a sufficient number of vaccines and tuberculin have been ordered in our country and that the programme should also be implemented at the same time. But now see that this is a measure. The question is whether the programmes will continue. Because there are such issues coming up, Minister. Of course, the important thing is the adequate supply of the relevant vaccine, the anti-phytosanitary, as is tuberculin. At the same time, however, during this period, which does not perform the anti-physical vaccination, the vaccination centres were, in fact, "weaned" by the incomplete staff who had and I am not only talking about the Larissa Prefecture or the Vaccine Center at the Larissa General Hospital, who was responsible for this city vaccination programme. We are talking about health centres, where there are no more nurses who will undertake to carry out this vaccination programme. As have also been abolished, vaccination centres have been removed. Of course, the staff have been made available to other health services. Let me mention Thessaloniki, namely the 'Papanikolaou' in the report that was submitted in October - as I said in my prototype - by the parents' associations, who were protesting why this programme was not being implemented. At the same time, what does it turn out? And the health sector, which touches on prevention, and our people are a prey of multinational interests, because there is no reason why the vaccine cannot be produced. It has been reduced - what you said, Minister - production for their own reasons because they wanted to channel their production elsewhere in order - possibly - to gain profits. We are convinced of this. And of course, the needs of the people are written in the old. And, of course, as much as the provision of medicines, vaccines is combined with the production method in force in the existing capitalist system, people will always pay it. And, of course, an incentive for any production will be profitable. Where it does not gain to you - see anti-physical vaccination, I say one example - they are not very interested or even inhibiting production, leaving large parts of the population with enormous responsibilities not only in our country, but also worldwide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u59	The substance of your speech is clear. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u60	My dear colleague, being within capitalism, we are obviously obliged, until there is another way of organising society, to obtain medicines and medical equipment from private companies, which may of course have the primary purpose of gaining, but there is a possibility of serious and organised states having frameworks, of having control mechanisms, and there is a way to ensure the social and general public interest. These malfunctions - you have pointed out - are perhaps created by the fact that the market for these vaccines is one-stop shop. We should also think about and discuss with the domestic pharmaceutical industry alternatives to growth and such investment in this type of type of medicine, which is really unwelcome demand. In any case, however, you know very well that for this vaccine there is a scientific debate in terms of its effectiveness - this is well known. We know that it does not protect against the usual form of tuberculosis, except from very serious complications such as meningitis, osteomyelitis, tuberculosis and so on. However, the National Committee for Vaccines, which is the State Advisory Body, insists that manuscript checks and vaccinations should be carried out at approximately five to six years of age in the First Degree. What is of interest is, of course, that there should be absolute vaccination coverage in special populations, the objective of a serious public health policy, and that the possibility of the student be fully normalised for this year. The vaccination centres are organised, we know their spread throughout Greece and they are sufficient to meet this need. But there are staff problems, that's true. Inside the huge gaps our health system has apparently there are also the necessary visitors or the remaining health staff it needs to make these checks. I think, however, that we can meet this need to the extent that the supply of these vaccines is normalised. I believe that this will happen in the next few months, and I hope that we will not have to come back to this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u61	Eleventh question under number 369/11-1-2016 will be discussed, second question by MP Larissa of Potamio Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas, on the "Collection of the Hellenic Republic by the Court of Justice of the European Union (WEU) of overruns of the maximum weekly working time of doctors". Mr Barriotta, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, Minister, thank you for coming today. I, too, would like to call Mrs Christophilopoulou on the proposal for a cross-response, as I am sorry to see that the Ministry of Health has a very bad record in both the timeliness and the answers to the written questions. I think it's something you need to see. Perhaps Mrs Christophilopoulou's proposal will help. I'm going into this because I don't have much time. I would like to begin with a clarification, in which I think you will agree that, by talking about doctors' work, the weekend and the guarantee of healthy working conditions, we are mainly talking about ensuring the quality of the provision of health and safety services for patients, as delinquent and truly paid and tired doctors in newspapers are a problem and a risk to public health, since their crisis is weakening and their ability to respond to the problems is getting worse and worse. So very soon the European Court of Justice condemned the country because it allows doctors to work for more than twenty-four hours later - practically in Greece there are doctors working for too many days at a time without interruption on newspapers - and why it still does not respect this, which she too has legislated, namely limiting forty-eight hours of continuous work per week. I would also remind you, and I think it is important to keep it, that the same court has given its opinion that workers need a clear, precise and unambiguous legal framework, namely what Greece does not have, in the case of newspapers. The legislative framework is complex, interdependent and outdated and has become even worse and even more unequal because of the horizontal cuts that have taken place in recent years. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There are, as I have said, whole days of continuous inauguration, so there is a serious security problem in the newspaper. That is the main reason for the famous Brain Drain and the departure of many doctors, namely the combination of degrading wages and degrading working conditions at the same time, which constitute a very, very big problem. I know that you will tell me that this is a chronic problem that has arisen - and so is - but, Minister, you have recorded a year of absence from this matter and from many others in the Ministry, as we have not seen any proposal and any legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u63	The question is clear. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u64	I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u65	There has been a great overrun of the limits. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u66	Just to say the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u67	The question is clear, Mr Barriotta. The rest is sauce.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u68	I think it is important to ask questions. They are important, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u69	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u70	No questions? Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u71	My dear colleague, the problem exists. It was a great loose end. This judgment of the European Court of Justice highlights a time-consuming responsibility for the Greek state to face up to this loose end. I would remind you that the European directive came out in 2003 - it was probably one in 1999 - and it has been thirteen and fourteen years since. There has been an important effort, in my view, in 2009, with the sectoral agreement of the hospital doctors and the Ministry that provided for four and a half thousand recruitments in two years, precisely in the logic of covering gaps, and thus reducing the necessary overtime. Then came the judgment and the memorandum. The procedure has been frozen and only minimal recruitment has been carried out. I think only a thousand of them were able to make progress in 2009 and 2010. And several of the unsolved and their crises had been completed this year. We have managed this period - in recent months - to appoint around eighty and hundred permanent doctors from such old crises of that period. We must be absolutely honest. With the data on staffing of public hospitals in the country, this European Union directive on working hours cannot be implemented. That is quite clear. We consider that this decision of the court, which poses a risk of a fine for the country, and we have to deal with this in order to avoid it...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u72	And for the patients, it poses a risk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u73	Of course, I fully agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Barriotta, you have your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u75	The big problem is security standards in the operation of hospitals and the quality of care. That is the big problem, and that is why we are dealing with it. It is obviously not just a question of the working rights of hospital doctors. So the loose ends. I have already sent a letter to the Federation of Hospital Doctors and I invite them to dialogue on an up-to-date sectoral agreement and we have scheduled a meeting with the European Health Commissioner in mid-February, precisely to put this whole framework in place, to put the country's real situation and real capacity and obviously with a phased-out plan for the gaps to have a progressive harmonisation of our country against this requirement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u76	Mr Barriotta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u77	I would ask you to give me a minute, because it is a very complex and important issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u78	You've got three whole minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u79	I'd ask you to do four.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u80	Three minutes is at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u81	In any case, I do not think I am going to get into the OENGE issue. You mentioned the history. I know that, too. I think it has responsibilities and the trade union leadership of the space for antiquity, since many things have been claimed, taken back, then changed and made that they do not see them. This is because there is a refusal by all - and by the old leaders of the Ministries and the Federation of Hospital Doctors - to talk about the substance of the newspaper model. You know well that the system is uneven, it's in the air. Newspapers are produced by an invoicing of safe invention programs, which the word'safe' is a trade union reference without content, without measurable criteria. Nobody knows why they're on a three-day watch, and that's where they're on a four-day watch. I'm trying to say it soon, because Mr. Bored has scared me over time. No one knows how to produce on-calls. No one can cross-check where they on-call who and why. No one can compare evidence between hospitals. It is therefore an outdated, customer-friendly system at the disposal and discretion of DPO commanders and party administrations, which produce on-calls on different criteria rather than on the basis of actual needs. This system also wants to be maintained by OENGE by their statements and by personal means - if you want to - communication in many stages and no one was interested in amending it. I fear that you are in danger of staying in history as the Ministry's most conservative and conservative leadership in this respect, since I see no mood for conversion. I do not think that in themselves the appointments of new doctors - which are necessary and do not even come - are the necessary solutions. The system of newspapers - like many other things - needs real reform. At least we need to start a dialogue on how this reform is to be carried out, because the truth is that there is no such advance in Greece. So we need to look back at the system from the beginning and see not only how it needs to be changed, but also how to make a system for measuring and implementing changes. Because I remind you - and you know well - that sometime they won the day off after the papers. You know well that no one is involved in their implementation. Everyone's doing that they don't know they don't. The result is that the interns indulge in conditions of depletion, indulge in infinite hours, dangerous even for their own health and much more for the health of the patients. Because I'm saying again that the tired, angry and morally indestructed doctor in the newspaper is more dangerous than a bad and unwitting doctor, no matter how good. In fact, colleagues in the health care system are overtaken by themselves. That doesn't mean they're safe, because the system is pushing them to do things that are beyond their human powers. This has to change. So the first question is - and I asked it before - this: do you have some kind of transformation, reform in the system? Do you have at least evidence of how many appointments they need and where to cover them in a minimum? I agree that the directive is not being implemented today. We have the opportunity to make a plan as a country, as a ministry for the next five years, going there, not only by recruitment, because we know well that they are not enough, and they are not possible, if you like, to the extent that they may need. We are prepared to discuss the modification of the inspection system and the introduction of inspection standards based on measurable parameters. Is that the crucial question?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u82	Put in a quiz and a quid pro quo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u83	I didn't need one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u84	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u85	Dear colleague, it's a one-way way to do this. It is not a question of mood, of political will, etc. We have to do this to survive the health system. And because we want, in fact, especially during the period of the economic and social crisis to have reliable public care, we are obliged, not because the fine is imposed, not because there has been a judgment by the Court of Justice, to make a serious intervention, first of all, to cover the gaps. It has left 20% of the medical potential in recent years cumulatively. This needs to be addressed. We have made speeches in this direction. I would remind you that we have ensured the presence of all subsidiary doctors - about five hundred - who are currently serving in hospitals in the country by 30 September following an extension from 30 June last year. Secondly, we have appointed four hundred seventy ASs in addition to this last quarter. Thirdly, we have planned the recruitment of six hundred ninety permanent doctors in 2016, which will promote their positions. We have already allocated their number to the U.S. and there remains the final distribution to hospitals. I think the logic is that we are trying to strengthen the human potential of hospitals, particularly medical care, and to stop with these moves this terrible leakage of medical resources to the outside, which today threatens the stability and functionality of public hospitals. Obviously both the work and the pay system, especially for young doctors, are repellent. We need to see how we can make this more attractive. At this stage, I think you realise that we cannot open a debate on upgrading the medical payroll. We can, however, improve working conditions by making sure the day off is properly given. Indeed, doctors who are highly charged with emergencies, but also with the operation of the departments, have the compensatory rest period and, above all, to upgrade medical education, my dear colleague. This is the crucial issue and the big bet, so that they know the remarkable young people who end the Greek universities that can live in this country decently and practice their profession, function and have prospects. Throughout the on-call system, I agree that there is distortion. To a large extent, of course, - I think you will agree - these divergences and disparities exist have been reduced, precisely because the budgets for on-calls have been reduced. There is therefore a need for rationalization. We have started this debate with the Heads of State and now with the new administrations of hospitals we will put this on the table and there will be a new modern model that will have streamlined services and the operation of hospitals now with the on-calls. Critical key here is the operation of the autonomous TLP. The TLP is the first entry gate, it's the first line of defense for the public hospital. There is a heavy burden of work, there is work stress. We therefore need to ensure that these sections are staffed with qualified staff, with the specialty of emergency medicine, etc., which you know, and which may be applied circular hours, so as to stop the 24-hour on-call status, especially in those parts which are heavily burdened by the flow of incidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u86	We thank the Minister for his presence. Due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, three questions will not be discussed: The sixth under number 394/13-1-2016 a top-level question for the second Member of Parliament's 2nd Pireau of the Central Association of the Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economist to the Minister of Health on the living conditions of the abandoned newborns in the Wing of the Hospital of "ALEXANDRA". The seventh question, number 378/12-1-2016, of the Second Cycle of MP Ioannina, of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Health, on the operation of the Computer Tomatos (PET - CT) at the University General Hospital of Ioannina and the ninth question of second-round Members of Parliament, Mr Spyridon - Adodos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the implementation of the automatic return measures (clawback) and the amount of return (rebate) to the costs of private providers of the EEAG for the year 2014. Finally, the twelfth question will not be discussed under number 370/11-1-2016, the second time question by MP II Piraeus, the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the position of the Ministry for the racist incident of two Israeli passengers at the expense of Arab-Israelines on a plane of "AEGEAN". The Minister responsible is absent abroad. The fourth question, with number 406/18-1-2016, will be discussed now by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on measures for student relocations. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Athanasia Anagnostopoulou. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we had to get to the middle of January, that is to say, the university examination, to finally announce the government and the Ministry a few days ago the list of students entitled to relocate. About ten thousand were applications submitted and even half of them were approved, about four and a half thousand. The remaining five-and-a-half thousand applications, although they cover the economic and the other specific criteria required, were also entitled to be translated, they did not finally take it because the 15% cut in the 15% threshold operates, compared with, of course, the additional conditions, conditions and modulations. What does it mean, though, Minister, that five and a half thousand students do not receive a transcription? It means quite simply that five and a half thousand children, most of them, are actually thrown out of their studies, since the transfer for most of these children was their only chance and opportunity to study. Because their families can't, they don't have to study their children away, in another city than they live, with an annual family income that often moves around or under the poverty line, which is not enough to cover the huge cost of study that is growing and of course your own responsibility. In other words, they have managed these children of these families with a thousand sufferings and deprivations to reach higher education, and there your state and government are coming to shine their way. There are even family cases that just asked their children to study in the same city, and let them be away, and several of these cases were not satisfied. So it is when you load more and more weighted and anti-grassy measures on the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u88	Clearly the question, very clear. The question is clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u89	It makes sense to raise the class walls.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u90	The analysis does not provide any further clarity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u91	The question to the Secretary-General is: What measures does the government intend to take to get all applicants, who, of course, meet the conditions for relocation, without any additional conditions and conditions, do not have to be lost in six months for each student relocated and student and to ensure all the benefits, whatever is left, of their student status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u92	Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u93	I thank my fellow Member for the question, because it is a question which concerns the whole world and us above all. No Minister, much more of us, would like us to say that everyone who has been asked for relocations. But there are some issues which no Minister can overlook. Mr. Loverdos had done so the previous academic year with the known results. There is one law which we were obliged to respect, and there is the decision of the Council of State. The third is that we cannot violate the institutions' self-interest. Last year it was a mess, the foundations were muddled and they were unable to respond to what happened. But I'll give you some numbers. Resigned nine thousand seven hundred ten students and students. Four thousand five hundred thirty-four, based on income criteria, most of all, and social. So the molecules have come in to respond to what the law and the Council of State has imposed and which we cannot violate. The third point is that those who requested relocation could take almost all, that is about seven and a half thousand. The problem, Mr Colleague, is that all applicants for relocation - almost all - either in Athens or Thessaloniki and that is where the problem arises. We cannot - and under the law and the need of the institutions this is the most important - load the sections with the three-fold and four-fold number in relation to the participants, with those who have entered the university. So what we tried to do is to respect income and social criteria. Of course, there are cases which have been selected without molecules, without any percentage, without any such. People were directly introduced with physical, mental or mental disability, people with acute problems. I would also like to inform you that there is an exceptional committee in which a thousand other applications have been made with serious problems, covering a proportion of the people who have applied for and how to mobilise them. I would also like to say that for the first time we had a system that was absolutely incomprehensible, because it was electronic. In other words, there is not one case for any change to the classification. So that's indifferent. There's something else we're trying to do these days, because, of course, we understand the acute problem. There are cases where a man meets income criteria, but he does not fulfil other criteria. You know that we had the phenomenon of equalising applicants, one of whom had molecules, had passed the introductory tests by nineteen, and the other by twelve. There the foundations themselves have imposed that one cannot come to Athens without taking into account moleculosis. Nevertheless - and not to waste time - we are trying to cover at least the problem of people with high income standards.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u94	The rest of you will tell your dentistry. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u95	I think the Minister has confessed that the situation will not change much. I don't know how many of the rejected applications will be met. From what I understand, it's gonna be very few. But here we are talking about ten thousand applications, as I said at the beginning of my position, and five and a half thousand are left out. I was very careful about the wording. I've talked about those who meet the criteria and are entitled to the law. These children, these students, we say, should now be given the opportunity to transfer to the university in the city where they live with their families, because - we repeat - they are the only way to study. They'll stop their studies. I think that a government, which drinks water in the name of public education, should move in this direction and not, of course, be justified on the basis of the law or self-interest of universities. Because 15% is law and this law can change. The self-employed of universities cannot regulate everything around students. It is about schools, but I think this is a matter that goes beyond the limits of university competence and the government should see it centrally. There is indeed an increase in the number of applications for relocation, and I do not think that this is an accident in recent years. It is, of course, because of the economic crisis which has direct and painful economic consequences on the poor populace. That is why we have an increase in requests for relocations. It's been broken - and you and your government continue to break - the people's income. You continue to increase the cost of study. We are talking about a student 'priority' essentially nonexistent. We are talking about underfunding education. And, of course, the most demanded schools are Athens and Thessaloniki, because that is where most of the Greek people happen to live. There is, at the same time, a growing tendency to abandon study and that is why. There is, of course, also the phenomenon of student work. I think one in two students works, with all that means to his studies. At TEI is even higher that rate. You also spoke, Minister, of an imprecise system. Look, the imprecise system doesn't mean it's fair. We are talking about those children, which most of them - I will say for the third time - if they do not receive their relocation, they will not be able to continue their studies. They don't have that possibility. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, the trend - and I conclude, Mr President - is confirmed - a policy which, at the end of the day, wants each person's studies to be commensurate with his or her own and family's pockets. We reiterate and ask again for the six-month period not to be lost for any of these students and, of course, for those applications, which, according to the law, would be satisfied, because the terms and conditions came to be added after the law, precisely to leave these children out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u96	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u97	I understand much more - believe me - and from you the huge social problem, because I live it every day. Since October we have done nothing but try to mitigate the limits of the law and what the Council of State has decided, invoking Article 16. And you know what Article 16 means to public education. One thing that bothers me, Mr. Colleague, is getting from a real problem if we want to do public education something else, just for those who have money. We are going to bring rules here in this House to alleviate the limits of the law and I want to see what you are going to do. Because we are living the problem and, of course, we understand that to a student who has six and seven molecules, the department of the TEI of Athens or the University of Athens does not allow him with anything, because it triples him the number and has limited workshops or amphitheaters. Because when the number is tripled, that's the problem. And we are trying to find a way to be legitimate, not to violate Article 16, because it is very important and has been invoked by the Council of State, and to take as many people as possible. That's what we're trying to do these days. So don't tell me that this is how we rule out students. That's barely what we're trying to do. In the exceptional transcripts, which go a very large volume of people who have been electronically requested, things will be seen - I think - in a very flexible way and with the regulation that we will do to mitigate the limits. As for the semester, no student is lost for the simple reason that he can give the exam. And to note parentheses that the results of the transcripts first came out so early. They were delaying much longer, except for the last year they all went where they wanted, with the decision that Mr. Loverdes had made. So it's the first year they come out so fast. Nobody loses their six-month term. He's giving an exam to the university he's at. You're right that the relocations fall, and we need to change the law and get it quickly. This will be done from time to time, because we will have electronic completion of all elements right from the start, when a student is enrolled. But we are trying to heal this and get as many students as possible, the existing law and the Council of State allow us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u98	Thank you. Series is the fourth with No. 405/18-1-2016 top-level question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Athanasios Vardalis to the Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Health, concerning the treatment of workers' problems in the cleanliness of hospitals in Thessaloniki. In the timely question, Mr Georgios Katrugalos will answer. Mr. Vardalis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we now have rich experience of all of us from this form of privatisation of sectors and services, both in hospitals and in the wider public sector. I will not go into the problems that this has caused workers, the working jungle, wage cuts and so on. But recently there has been a problem throughout this whole story - and I will become more specific - which I know from Thessaloniki, but it may also happen in other parts of the country. Since the beginning of the year the concession contracts for these contractors have expired on specific contractors and hospitals do not publish the same contractors, one year in the long term - but two or three months, because they are not the hospitals prepared or I do not know why else. We would also like information on this. The question that arises is as follows. For its own reasons - probably because it is short in time, but also for other reasons - this contractor is leaving and another one is in place. The workers are blackmailed, because they want jobs, to sign a voluntary departure, and therefore there is a 'walk' in compensation and the new contractor for two or three months takes them without any right. The pre-service they had, for example, employees who worked ten years in the previous contractor goes "a walk" and she is hired with the minimum wage. And, of course, they also have the problem of what will happen after two months, which will end this contraction. We are therefore asking, in particular, what you will do to ensure that, when a contractor leaves and succeeds, workers are transferred to the next contractor with full rights, what they had left before the previous contractor left. There is a proposal - not to read it, I do not have time - for a presidential decree, n.e.c. 178/2002. We would like the answer to be specific about this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for the question. We share the concern about the problem. Among the jungles created in the labour market, the jungle in the cleansing sector is perhaps the wildest. I don't say it and you. The example of Constantina, Kuneva, shows it embossed. Here we have two topics: what are we going to do about cleaning up this jungle and the specific problem of the company you have raised? For the first time, I would remind you that, as we have said and legislated on Article 49 of the Treaty. 4325/2015, our intention is, precisely because we know what the reality is with cleaning workshops and sub-contracting, to consider the whole issue of cleaning. What did that law provide for? He predicted that private contracts could be concluded, so bypassing the middle contractor. And I had invited the Associations of Workers to clean up - and the Association that I know is about your ideological space - to discuss programming for the future, to see which part of the cleanup of the public can be done by the 'Common', these social cleansing companies. We have positive examples. The Agricultural University employs "Common" and so we have taken the exploitation factor out of the middle. What piece, based on the expenditure we have, can become permanent staff? Because, obviously, in scrapers, there can only be permanent staff. We saw this drama with the worker who died these days. So at the general level what needs to be done is a comprehensive programming, in fact, so that we do not have cleaning contracts of this kind that lead to the work jungle you describe. In this case, what you are proposing, n.l.178, is not legally applicable. What does this decree provide for, transposing a directive? It provides that when a company's ownership is changed, staff are not made redundant, but still has the same rights first of all as the ones it had before the transfer. Here we have no transfer of an enterprise, an industry to a new owner, we have a closure of a service contract. What I am proposing is that, as far as I understand it, these workers are being blackmailed, it is to make a tripartite in the Ministry of Labour, request the Association there for our intervention, so that we can show to the company that it has left that it cannot blackmail workers, if possible, leave without compensation. This is obviously not legal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u103	Minister, not from what I understand, but it seems to be certain that the problem with what you say, compliance with the laws already in existence, will not be solved. Why? Extortion is not taking place immediately. The company leaves the hospitals of Thessaloniki, but may have other contractors in several counties of the country. It tells the workers 'you want to go to Komotini'. What worker with 600 euros will go to Komotini to work in the same business? And so it is now becoming a direct extortion. So this is where we need to deal with legislation. I'm talking about this one. You have now told me, apart from sympathy, that we need to deal with everything else, that we need to see the more general problem. Of course we need to see the general problem. But, in order to solve the more general problem, we must find the reason for the problem. You also have responsibilities here, because you continue a policy which, of course, has been delighted to have been implemented by previous governments, but you continue where the previous ones left it. For example, the problem in this case arises from the privatisation of sectors and services in the public sector. What about this? Will privatisation stop, yes or no, if we want to tackle the problem in general and have workers - if they want - permanent and stable work with full rights? And what are you telling me as an answer? You tell me: "Yes, look see, but we're thinking about dealing with it through the "Come on." Why? Why shouldn't he be in public and the hospital be responsible for the cleanliness of his premises? What's the problem? Just walk away from the middle? But the problem is from the whole of your policy, because you want to reduce costs - health costs - which is why you are using such forms. And so you will pay particular attention to these cooperatives which, in any case, will be the workers. The workers will grow with what you will give them. So it is not going to solve the problem on a path, because we live in a competitive society, the one we all know, the contractor can hit this contractor even cheaper than the 'Common. In any case, the loser - despite the fact that you are celebrating all of you and the previous governments that we are reducing health costs, supposedly we are pulling out the scandals - the one who ultimately pays the marble is the worker: and at a worse wage than the jungle labour relations and jungle pensions and everything. Because it cannot be done differently in the system that we live in. So, if you really want - as you say - to deal with the problem, we think that you should move on to that logic, that the privatisation of public sector and services should no longer be stopped. That is our view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u104	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u105	It is precisely because we know that the existing legislation, which we inherited, is in the direction you say, which is why we make the first speeches, which is why we made Mr von Wogau. 4325. "Kin S.E." is a solution. We do not reduce health expenditure. For the first time in this budget we predict a small increase. We want to raise this part that goes to the social budget. On the other hand, the management of the situation, which we have inherited, obliges us, as part of the expenditure we have, to look at cleanliness. What I told you I think is obvious. There are certain positions in cleanliness that must be permanent. What we are proposing is a special knowledge of the subject. Like employment in wastewater, which requires specific skills, the management of hazardous waste, which produces a hospital, needs special knowledge. In other areas there may be non-permanent staff. That's what I said was the essence of our proposal, we should sit down and see with the workers in every room and the Association how these interoffice circles are formed, and then we should go. As far as this matter is concerned, it could not even be solved with permanent staff, because you know that for the procedures of the AACC it would be more than a year to be recruited if it were to be assumed that they needed permanent staff in the hospital. So what we need to see is to take advantage of the potential of v. 4325/2015, which gives discretion to the bodies of public authorities and legal entities governed by public law to recruit individuals directly instead of going to employers, provided they have worked in cleaning workshops. Therefore, if necessary, a solution that you should investigate in the club, whether there is or who represents these workers together with the hospital, is whether this provision of the n can be used. 4325/2015, in order to conclude individual contracts with workers in this workshop, not through the intermediary, but directly private contracts. This is provided for in Article 49 of the EC Treaty. Date of birth: 4325/2015. And if the Department can help, we're at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u106	We thank the Minister for his presence. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that on Tuesday, January 26, 2016, 18.30', a debate will be held on the reform of the country's insurance system at the initiative of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras. I would also like to announce that it will not be debated because of lack of responsibility, the fifth under number 396/15-1-2016, a topical question by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokalis, Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the felling of clusters of the forest of Saint Theodoros in Rapsani Larissa. Also, the eighth question under number 379/12-1-2016 will not be discussed, after consultation of the MP with the relevant Minister, the eighth question of the second cycle of MP II Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ninas Kasimatis to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights regarding the concession of the use of part of the Women's Booking Store in the Municipality of Korydallos. Finally, we move on to the first debate under number 1538/30-11-2015 question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the unpaid producers of the Regional Unit of Heraklion Crete. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Marcos Bollaris. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the problem of the unpaid production of wine grapes by vinification companies and associations remains abrupt. And it is going to be added to the decline in farmers' incomes, to wild taxation, to the high cost of production, to the dramatic increase in VAT and insurance contributions, to the non-payment of basic aid, to the additional tax on wine and, of course, to the revision of the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. The basic question is: How will these poor farmers live? You are well aware that the Regional Unit of Heraklion traditionally based on vine cultivation with a basic variety of sultanina. In fact, it was a sign of wealth and generations that grew up, they studied exclusively from the raisin’s production. Producers - especially small producers - have necessarily turned to winemaking and distilling ticks exclusively for the own use of people in rural areas, as a result of the damage that has been suffered by the raisin from the common agricultural policy and European Union regulations. Now, of course, both are being hit on the basis of the Common Agricultural Policy, the Memorandum of Understanding, the requirements of the wine-growing industries, and the latter are seeking to monopolize the management of the entire wine-growing sector. By winemaking, the producers ensured an additional income from the sale of sultanine which did not absorb. Now they're the ballot of anonymous corporations. Private companies and rural associations know very well that they are getting a very cheap raw material, i.e. grape, at degrading prices, we are talking for 18 to 35 minutes, or threatening that they will not get the raw material from the producers, but will import grapes from abroad. And in this way they also achieve degrading prices. In both cases, however, there is blackmail. They therefore have to deal with this problem by small producers. We are now talking about amounts of EUR 1 000 to 10,000 per producer. Private wine growers and associations refer to the undetermined future the payment of this year's production and most of them have unpaid and last year's production. In fact, we have very specific complaints about them. So given that small and medium-sized producers of wine grapes are completely exposed to these blackmails of wine makers and associations of public limited companies, we are asking you what immediate measures and what decisions you will take to ensure that winegrowers are immediately and without conditions to be paid for their last year's harvest and this year's harvest. We call, secondly, for the income of producers of wine grapes to be protected exclusively, effectively by ensuring prices that correspond to the cost of production. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Bolaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, you will allow me to quote and before I reply, to say two thoughts, because it is clear that the Constitution of the country and the laws of the country govern and protect the institutional rights of Greek citizens and their aggregations. Inside this is the mobilisation of social groups, organisations, trade unions and citizens. The Constitution provides for these mobilisations, because rights must be protected, opposition must be expressed, arguments must be put forward, dialogue must take place, democracy must function. *Democratic and constitutional rights of citizens are exercised and act within a democratic framework, i.e. with respect for the laws, in the Constitution, in the democratic institutions. When they move from constitutional, legal, democratic function, then those who treat them are exposed and do not need to comment any more, because each of us as a citizen and as a political and as agglomeration and as a political system, we are also judged by the objectives that we set ourselves and by the strategy that we are pursuing and by the political will that we demonstrate and by the means we choose. Mr Colleague, thank you very much for your question. It's critical. I will insist on telling you in the first place and I will say in detail then, in my denunciation, that the issue you raise is known and recorded. There are four points to be tackled in terms of the state and the European Union. One is the Restructured and Processing Programme for Vine Variety Variety. It is a programme that was in the previous Agricultural Reconstruction Programme and will continue in the next one, in what starts the '14-20'. In this program, about EUR 1 million was allocated for 2015 to eighty winegrowers, aiming to help them. I am going to go into detail next. Just a month ago, a ministerial decision was adopted, allowing new permits for planting vines of wine grapes. The area is thirty-one thousand acres, i.e. about 1% of the national vineyard. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I shall continue with my dentistry, with your permission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u111	Minister, you have chosen this question on a specific subject, to make reference to farmers' struggles, which are perfectly fair as a result of your own policy which is a roller, in order to implement the policy of the European Union, the industrialists, the monopolistic groups, to capitalise agricultural production and well farmers go down on the road, well done and have the blogs. If you are threatening them with legality, I beg your pardon, but what the previous people have done, you are launching the same threats to farmers. But you will find it from the farmers themselves. Is it possible to triple those contributions to the OGA, impose them 26% tax and 100% advance on them, that is to say, to put the bite in their throats and to have an impunity? Where does that come from? Not only must farmers' racing minds be strengthened, but the blockages must be strengthened, there must be an uproar of the people and from the workers and from the self-employed with this insurance bill and all the measures you bring and condemn them for a whole life. What you said, however, about the question I asked you, is not about it or rather about it directly. We know that the government will proceed to this programme for the restructuring of varieties, but let me say that this programme is not about the vast majority of small and medium-sized farmers. Even these thirty thousand acres of planting have an interest in seeing under what criteria and under what conditions, which farmers will get. Who is this small- and medium-sized producer? With what motives, with what criteria will it be included in such a programme and much more when all the previous decisions of the European Union, the common agricultural policy, the common organisation of the market, have displaced sultanine as a basic variety? If you want, that is the reason why the stacking has been brought down, so the producers should be led to winemaking, with all the extortion means that - which I mentioned earlier. But let me tell you that as far as the specific problem I mentioned, the question of unpaid production is concerned, there are companies, for example, CRETA OLYMPIAS, a public limited company operating in Heraklion, which owes production to the majority of wine growers. In fact, this year the company paid debts to producers who provided it for grapes this summer. The other producers who did not give their grapes this year still have them unpaid. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Watch out. He owes a producer EUR 18000. From two to five years ago, all associations and private individuals owe thousands of farmers such sums. The Pedestrian Union, for example, has three thousand members. So you understand the size and not just grapes, wine grapes, even oil. Lyrarakis, a private winemaker, do you know what he said to blackmail producers? "Sign that you are agreed to pay you production in the summer of 2006, otherwise I don't take it." The Pedestrian Union owes the majority of farmers three years of production. The same applies to oil, the same applies to the sinful Union of Heraklion with the bloody accidents at work, the economic arbitrage, the reductions in the wages and redundancies of workers, the mortgage on the property of the Union at Piraeus Bank and most of the producers are in debt at the moment. So you see that it is so acute that your policies with the restructuring and mandates of the European Union are not going to solve the basic problem, which is that producers - small and medium-sized - remain in their field and can live their family. Otherwise, I'm sorry, but this world is not just going to be on the blocks, but it's going to take the previous ones and you and that really has to take, because the future is not just the restructurings and what you're telling us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Colleague, we've taken the time away. End of story, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u113	It must take its hands and claim its own power, where socialised means of production will be a precondition for rural development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the 3rd General High School of Chania, as well as twenty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the American College. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u115	Colleague, the government has welcomed the mobilisations and points out that it is a constitutional right and calls for proposals and dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u116	You set a term of legality. Inadmissible! Limit of legality?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Colleague, you've heard. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u118	Mobilisations, Mr. Comrade, are a means of fighting. It's not an end in itself. Mobilisations aim to solve existing political, social and economic issues and these issues are resolved in the context of democracy, with dialogue. My colleague, the restructuring and conversion programme for wine grape varieties, which are in the European programme, aims to increase competitiveness, qualitative upgrading, to establish vine varieties that are competitive on the world market and to introduce modern cultivation methods, to support the winegrower. The programme therefore covers replanting old vineyards, planting new ones, re-vaccinating existing ones and improving techniques. What are the tools? You made a description of the problem. What's the proposal? The proposal is that a new instrument is given, which is financed by the Rural Reconstruction Programme, and that is the establishment of producer groups by the winegrowers. We note that there is a question with the private sector and we see a malfunction in organisations. I would like to tell you that I cannot interfere with private individuals. For individuals, the differences, Mr Colleague, and we will speak institutionally, are resolved elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u119	It is the 'heir cow'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u120	Don't you want to hear the answer? This is where we pass laws and organize the state. So the proposal is that producers should organise themselves in producer groups. There is the institutional framework and financing of producer groups for the next five years. This aim is likely to be a concentration of larger quantities, so it is possible to negotiate, and therefore it is possible to vertical the vineyard to the shelf with good competitive wine. It also enables the use of environmentally friendly methods, the exploitation of the rest of winemaking, exports, huge advantages with support, with funding. That is the proposal we are making to the winegrowers of the country today. That is the prospect, which is being opened for the next five years. Of course, I have to tell you that in the same context, only in the last year has money been given to promote Greek wine, a highly quality product with huge potential for competition, to come out on the international markets with programmes to promote and promote Greek quality wine. For these programmes which have been used by individuals and producer organisations and also by the Interbranch National Organisation of Vine and Wine, some 6.5 million euros were allocated. I think there's a framework. Calculate what I told you in introductory terms that by a decision signed on 18 December, we allow young people to enter winemaking with about thirty thousand new acres of vine, to see that the wine-growing sector, winemaking, is a sector that has enormous potential and potential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. We are adjourning the sitting until 13.00 p.m. We will begin with the speech of the President of the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus, Mr Giannakis Homer, and we will continue with the discussion and decision on applications for the waiver of the immunity of MPs Mr Dimitrios Emmanoulidis and Ilia Panayotarou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u122	The sitting shall be resumed. Please, colleagues, if you have any kindness, just sit down and start. In very few seconds, the President of the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus Mr Giannakis Homer will come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC ORGANIZATION 1) Speech by the President of the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus, Mr Giannakis Homer. 2) Discussion and decision, pursuant to Rule 62 of the Constitution and to Rule 83 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, Mr Demetrios Emmanoulidis and Ilia Panayotarou. I would like to inform you that the President of the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus, Mr Giannakis Homer, will attend today's sitting. Some time ago, we were honoured by the House of Representatives of Cyprus, to appeal to Parliament and not just - and not just - to this direct contact with the Cyprus Parliament, we have the great honour and pleasure of having welcomed these days the delegation of the Cyprus Parliament, as well as a delegation from the Committee on Defence of the Cyprus Parliament. Also, the Minister of National Defence was here, discussions were held with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and of course with the state leadership, at a very critical stage and discussions on the Cyprus issue. Forty-two years, then, after the coup d'état, and particularly the invasion of Cyprus and the mediation of the period of these debates, it is very important that we listen to the President of the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus and express our solidarity with all the governments of the Parliament. Mr. Homer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u124	Mr President of the Greek Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to address the Greek Parliament. I address you warm greetings of love, honor and deep appreciation. My presence here, in return for your own, Mr President, before the House of Representatives, is still a long tradition of arrogant and good cooperation at the highest state level, including parliament. Mr President, my presence here in the temple of democracy, in the Greek Parliament, in times of trial for Hellenism, has many dimensions and more symbolism. I come from Cyprus the seafilter, Aphrodite and Copper, the second and final home, after the Tropical War, for Técro from Salamis, the Lover from Teresa and Praxander from Sparta, the settlements of the Cypriot Salamis, Pafos and Lapithos. The birthplace of Evagora, Onisilos and the stoic philosopher Zenon of Kitia. The Cyprus of Apostle Andreas, the Panagia of Kykkos and the Byzantine locusts. Cyprus with the medieval "superior architectures" of European conquerors, the crossroads where races, cultures, religions and ideas have been convening for centuries. The "Greek" of neo-Greek pervertism, where the last revolution of modern Greek history took place, the struggle of the EEC, with heroes such as Gregory Axentiou, Kyriakos Matsis and Michael Karaolis. An inequality struggle in 1955-1959, against a colonial empire that managed to unite for the first time, after the traumatic 1940s and civil war, all Greeks of metropolitan Greece in the national and palliative support of Cyprus. A liberation struggle, which may not have succeeded, the union with Greece, but has led to the creation of the Republic of Cyprus, signalling the end of long centuries of slavery. The thrill of me, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is great, as I address this speech from a Chamber and a Step which was the main national ideal and the sweetest dream for the previous generations of the Greeks of Cyprus. A parliament and a democratic Greece, which among their pioneers and founders, in the 19th century, includes a Cypriot from Larnaca, Nikolaos Saripolos, one of the top Greek constitutionalists, the main rapporteur of the Greek Constitution of 1864. In a Greece, for the independence of its national borders, thousands of Cypriots fought from the time of the Revolution of 1821 to the resistance to the triple fascist occupation, in 1941-1944, and among them the Mayor of Limassol and MP at the Cyprus Council of Christoulos Sozos, which fell in Bizani in 1912, fighting as a mere soldier for the liberation of Epirus. In the last Greek trial and the resistance against the seven-year-old U.S. dictatorship, Cyprus proudly gave the first to act dead, the student Georgios Xanthos Tsikouris, who was killed in Athens outside the US Embassy in September 1970, along with the Italian competitor Mary - Helen Angeloni. I am here to convey the message that the Cyprus that Kazantzakis loved, Seferis, Richos and Elytis loved and with them all the Greek people continue the struggle of political and national survival. I would like to assure the National Representation that in Cyprus it will continue to be heard "heavyly voice as the walk of a potter, there in the veils of the sky, in the roll of the sea" along with the voice of Seferis and Makrigiannis: "The land has no rattles to take it into the shoulder and leave nothing can, however thirsty, sweeten the sea with half a drama". Those who have been trespassing for forty-two years on human rights in Cyprus and who violate UN resolutions and international law must realize that since the years of Eeschylus "the graduator runs as long as his way is, he will bring to those who have been looking to chain the Greeks the terrible message of the Salamis Island on the spots." From the long list of Cypriot creators, spiritual people, artists, athletes, politicians and soldiers who have stood out in Greece for the last two centuries, as a small contrast to metropolitan Greece for what it has offered and offered Cyprus, let me refer to just two personalities in my speech today. To Lucis Akrita, who attended the Greek Parliament and Greek politics and served as Deputy Minister of Education at the Government of Georgios Papandreou, whose birthplace Morfus is under Turkish occupation. And to Giannos Kranidiotis, with the origin of the occupied Kyrenia, who has been in the field of politics in the last 15 years of the 20th century, MEPs and Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, a visionary of the European process and an architect for the accession of Cyprus to the European Union. Here, in the appropriate area, I am also gratuitously paying tribute to the Greeks who struggled and fell for Cyprus or Cyprus, to the dead of the demonstrations in Athens during the Cyprus liberation struggle and to those who fell in Cyprus in 1964, in Telia, and in 1974 fighting or who remain missing in Pentadactylus, Kyrenia and in the battles of ELDEK in unequal and betrayed battle with the foreign invader. It is shocking, and in world history, that forty-two years after the invasion, we still have dead, missing persons, who are identified, victims of a barbaric behavior, because they are hostages and prisoners killed in cold blood by the Turkish army or surrendered to unarmed persons, who acted as commanded riots. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the homogeneity of Cypriot and metropolitan Hellenism is a compass and support to the long and unequal struggle of the Cypriot people for national survival and justice. We are deeply grateful for the complete, unresolved and unresolved support, support and solidarity of Greece. In addressing the speech to the Greek Parliament, we do not forget our duty to delineate it, its painful reality for forty-two years of our half-state, which is still divided, with smuggled altars and outbreaks, with refugees, missing persons, in prison, aware of national responsibility for ending the anachronistic Turkish military occupation. I am also aware of our debt to Kyrenia, Famagusta, Morfos, who are still occupied, against the theatre of Salamis, against our confederated cultural and religious monuments. I address the floor to the 50 six years of the Republic of Cyprus, but also to the forty-two years of Turkish occupation. Cyprus is an integral part of Hellenism, with a contribution to ancient Greek culture, with Ziones and Onesilus, with homemade remains in the landscape, with bouba now ancient theatres, with collapsing with Alexander the Great, with Kimones, with Maharades and Diplomas, and with modern "mole lava" delimiting our course. Because we are not being pessimistic or desperation. Because our decision is, as you well know, not to reconcile the occupation and partitioning of our country, but to get away definitively from the syndrome of betrayal and crime of 1974, to redefinite the great visions and to reconnect the chopped strings of the efforts and struggles of the Cypriot people. We have a duty to analyse and use the new data, our comparative advantages, the new geopolitical and geostrategic conditions, to form alliances and partnerships that will serve our national interests. Top priority, top duty is still to end the ongoing Turkish military occupation and restore the human rights and freedoms of our people. Fifty-six years of the Republic of Cyprus. However, its creation was accompanied and marked by fraudulent designs. The United Kingdom, with the tripartite in London, involved Turkey, despite the provisions of the Lausanne Treaty, in order to cancel the struggle for self-determination. The 'never' of the then British Deputy Secretary of State Hopkinson has wiped out any prospect of peaceful development. The 1955-1959 national liberation struggle inspired not only the Cypriot people but also other peoples in the anti-colonial struggles at that time. The end of the route was the Zurich - London agreement, which unfortunately legitimised Turkey's presence and imposed a non-functional constitution. Happy's attempt to turn the Constitution into a functioning force has been afflicted by Turkey's refusal. It is paradoxical to think that the proposal from the thirteenth point of view was the starting point of the tragic events of 1963-1964 and the subsequent problems. Because the proposals must lead to dialogue, not conflict. This offers an alibi to Turkey, which organized the undermining of the Republic of Cyprus. I would remind you that the then Secretary-General of the United Nations, Wy Thad, and the report of the then Security Council clearly attributed responsibility for the events at that time to the Turkish intentions of forcefully imposing division. The anti-national terrorist activity of the EEC II followed with the involvement of the junta and few-speaking Greek officers - who are unthinkable to be identified with Greece and the Greek people, who, moreover, were able - and the betrayal of the coup, the attempt to murder Archbishop Makari and the Turkish invasion. I would like you to allow me here, speaking of the betrayal of Cyprus, to express thankful thanks to the President of the Greek Parliament and the Conference of Presidents and the representatives of the parties, for the decision that we finalised in our meeting yesterday, to end a historic stalemate relating to the betrayal of Cyprus. To have full access to the material collected by the Committee of Inquiry by the Greek Parliament for the Cyprus file, for the events that have evolved and played before and during the coup on July 15, 1974 and the Turkish invasion that followed. Fifty-six years of the Republic of Cyprus, yearly leaps with unfulfilled visions and unsolved the Cyprus issue, failing repeated mediation efforts and fruitless inter-Community talks. Our task today in the face of our history and our culture, ladies and gentlemen, is to prevent the dangers for the Republic of Cyprus and also for the national and physical survival of Cyprus Hellenism. We must make it clear that we are not prepared to unblock rights and forget about it fairly. Yes, with certainty, of course, with responsibility, but also with rejection of the superior power of the conqueror and with refusal of any retreat to any pressure from third parties that overthrow any concept of morality and justice. Cyprus cannot and must not remain the only divided country in Europe when Europe itself is moving towards unification. Europe cannot tolerate the presence of an occupation army at its doorstep in a member country of the European Union. Cyprus, on its hard road, is strengthened because it feels alongside Greece, the entire Greek nation. And Hellenism is militant in the struggle of Cyprus, because it realizes that the fate of Hellenism is common and that if this struggle is lost, a deep breach will occur in the perimeter of the nation. That is why it is necessary for the national totalitarianism and the aggregation of Hellenism to benefit from the struggle for justice. Our timely debt to our firm and irreversible commitment to our state entity recommended by the Republic of Cyprus as a chest and shield against any attempts to hurt and dismantle it. Through conspiracy and pitfalls, the Republic of Cyprus survived and is now a firm foundation for the continuation of the struggle, for ending the occupation and for a solution that will ensure the harmonious coexistence of Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots in a free and democratic country. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again at a critical stage in the history of the Cyprus problem. Cyprus wants a solution, wants a solution as soon as possible. We wanted it and wanted it from the day after the Turkish invasion. Of course not any solution. Ending the occupation, removal of settlers, abolishing the anachronistic guarantees of 1960, unnegotiable application of human rights and freedoms of all legitimate citizens of the Republic of Cyprus, unity of people, state, institutions and economy, implementation of the European acquis. A solution that does not guarantee freedom of establishment, movement, the right to property and the exercise of a profession, which is the freedoms of the European Union, cannot be accepted and cannot be accepted by Cypriot Hellenism. A solution that impairs rights and freedoms and makes Cypriot citizens second-class Europeans will not be approved by Cypriot Hellenism. We want to invest hopes in the ongoing negotiating process. However, attention needs to be paid, without excessive expectations and without unjustified euphoria. We know very well that Turkey has a decisive role to play. Turkey should decide whether it will continue its uncompromising policy or whether it will finally be reconciled with the idea of a solution to the Cyprus problem, which will restore conditions of security, stability, peace and cooperation in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean. A solution which will also remove the obstacles to the fulfilment of any European ambitions. Our message to the international and European Community must be that now is the time to exert pressure on Turkey, to take advantage of the possibility of influence on Turkey, to abandon its timely uncompromising approach to the Cyprus issue. Because it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that we have not seen any signs of a change in Turkish policy to date, apart from rhetorical statements in favour of the solution. This is why it is our duty to mobilise and stimulate all our forces with initiatives and actions so that Turkey can get the message from both the international and the European Community that it cannot continue to be treated in Cyprus. Instead of exhausting into internal political discussions, we must mobilise internationally and within the European Union in that direction. We should also take initiatives on the top safety issue. Solution with guarantees and guarantors is incomprehensible. Guarantees have been a source of maliciousness for Cyprus and do not apply in any member country of the United Nations after World War II. Participation in the United Nations and the European Union is an absolutely sufficient guarantee framework. The European Union must also assume its responsibilities towards the problem of the military occupation of European territories, the occupation of one of its member countries by another country seeking to join the European family. The European Union's active subsidiary assistance to efforts for a solution is a fundamental obligation to be a solution not just functional and sustainable, but also fully compatible with the principles and values in force in the European Union. Referring to the European Union, I must support the European Commission's insistence on opening up five of the six accession funds that the Republic of Cyprus has frozen, as you know, unilaterally, because Turkey has not fulfilled its primary obligations, ignoring the reactions and warnings of Cyprus for not changing this position, while the reasons that led to its adoption are not missing. This is a reward and further encouragement of Turkish arrogance. At the same time, the use of new geostrategic, geopolitical and geo-economic data that have been formed in our region and have overthrown well-established balances of decades. The comparative advantage of our natural resources in the exclusive Economic Zone of the Republic of Cyprus is the new field on which our national strategy can be built. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the emergence of the central role of Greece and Cyprus as factors of stability in the extremely sensitive region of the Eastern Mediterranean, particularly in the light of the outbreak of terrorism and other asymmetric threats, is a key pillar of our foreign policy and our common strategy. Taking advantage of the important advantages their geographical position gives them, their status as Member States of the European Union and their excellent relations with the countries of the region, Greece and Cyprus seek to contribute constructively and substantially to the promotion and further enhancement of the objectives of the European Union Common Foreign and Security Policy, in particular in its southern neighbourhood, as well as in the objective of energy security of the Union. In this context, the conclusion of tripartite strategic cooperation between Greece and Cyprus so far with Egypt and Israel, and very soon with Jordan, as well as the growing prospects of cooperation with other countries in the region, on a wide range of issues, particularly in the field of energy and the economic and trade sectors, are aimed solely at meeting the objectives of peace, stability and prosperity for our countries and the region. Referring to our area of conflict and prolonged destabilisation, I would like to stress that the jihadists' terrorist attacks at the heart of Europe and the unprecedented refugee waves, as a result of the Syrian crisis, are irreversibly exposing the international community and threatening the European structure. Perimeters prove that the military option alone is not sufficient to eradicate evil. The vicious cycle of violence will be extended as long as the necessary will is lacking for effective response to the root causes of terrorism. The images of thousands of desperate refugees, flooding Europe and hundreds of others on the Mediterranean coast, will continue to haunt our collective consciousness while the reasons for their fleeing are not gone. The skeleton bodies of starving children in Mandaya and elsewhere are reproach and sewing in the hypocrisy of the international community. It is finally time for Europe to take responsibility, for unity and solidarity, for political wisdom and consensus. And it is imperative that the international and, in particular, the European community should bow before the greatness of Greece to the reception and hospitality of the enormous wave of refugees. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Cyprus is on its way to tackling the disastrous consequences of the economic crisis and the unprecedented robbery experiment, carried out at its expense, as a result of the doubtful and correct decisions taken by the Eurogroup in March 2013. At the same time, we join our voices with Greece in its efforts to convince ourselves that in conditions of recession, high unemployment, particularly among young people, and a test of society, which is the result of strict austerity, growth and the well-being of numbers does not mean the well-being of people. After all, budgetary discipline and development can coexist, since the necessary emphasis is placed on human beings, needs and rights, in conditions of fairness, equal treatment and social sensitivity. Greece's irrevocable decision to stay in the Eurozone, stressing that the European Union must be the primary Union of peoples in practice and not just in words, deserve respect, appreciation, but also the greatest possible solidarity of the Union's institutions and of each of its Member States. It is today, more than ever, necessary to inspire new breath into the deserving vision of European integration. Because the depreciation of today's European structure by an increasing Euroscepticism and millions of disillusioned citizens is a major threat to the cohesion and perspective of the European Union. Mr President, my honourable presence in this Step sends a message of love and common faith for freedom and justice. It is, at the same time, a message of optimism and commitment to the common destiny and the unresolved historical continuity and course of Hellenism. Finally, I consider myself to be the highest debt, speaking from the official Step of the Greek Parliament, to pay tribute again to the heroes of the Greek struggles in Cyprus, Cypriots and Greeks, who have tabled a sacrifice of blood for defending the territorial integrity, independence and freedom of Cyprus. The heroes and fighters of these bright games emit in the centuries the order "To be an excellent defender of a father", as well as being eternal and indissolved engagement between Cypriot and metropolitan Hellenism. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your invitation to this visit and especially for the extremely valuable opportunity you have given me to speak to the Greek Parliament, I wish to convey the heartfelt greetings of Cypriot Hellenism to our Greek brothers. I am sure that sooner or later there will be a time for historical justice, the time of one, uniform and indivisible Cyprus. And sooner or later I'm sure some of us will come back to the Greek Parliament to bring you the joyful message: "The occupation died. Cyprus is free!" Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, following the speech of the President of the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus, Mr Giannakis Homer, we are entering the request for the waiver of immunity: Debates and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and with Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, on applications for waivers of immunity of Members of Parliament, Mr Demetrius Emmanoulidis and Ilia Panayotarou. The relevant Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced the report on 19-1-2016, according to which the members of the Commission proposed by a majority that Mr Demetrius Emmanoulidis should not withdraw his immunity. The relevant Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced the report on 19-1-2016, according to which the members of the Commission proposed, by a majority, that the immunity of Mr Ilias Panayotarou be lifted. In accordance with Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, the House does not enter the substance of the cases, but is only investigated if the act in respect of which the waiver is sought is linked to the parliamentary activity of the Member, or to the prosecution or prosecution or prosecution of a case of political expedition. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide on an increase in the hand or on the request of the Public Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(b). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2005, we have accepted in respect of applications for waiver of immunity that the House shall decide by roll-call vote and by roll-call vote. The vote, in which each colleague will list his name, his constituency and the parliamentary group, will be registered in the respective Minutes. That is how we respond to the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a clear vote. So since the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is closed, we shall proceed by roll-call vote, as I have described to you. The first case concerns Mr Dimitrios Emmanoulidis. The second relates to Mr Ilias Panagiotaro, as we mentioned earlier. On the first request, I repeat, concerning Mr Dimitrios Emmanoulidis, is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u126	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Dimitrios Emmanoulidis has the floor for two minutes. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I would ask my fellow Members to be quiet in order to listen to the Member for whom we shall vote on the request for the waiver of his immunity. Here, Mr Emmanuelides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the request to waive my immunity, I feel the need to inform you about this issue. The Kavala Municipal Council of 23 May 2011, to which I was a elected member, decided, following a documented proposal by the mayor at the time, in favour of the non-revocation of a milk and pastry service. As a public person, I have to respect the principle of the measure, not to violate the principles of good administration and, above all, proportionality. I believe that by imposing arbitrary, disproportionate, burdensome measures on the part of the administration against the citizens of major infringements, the climate of distrust between administration and command is perpetuated. At the same time, a series of problems are created for a large number of businesses and tradesmen, leading to administration in the field of power abuse. In view of the fact that, following the case, the authorisation of this shop was approved by the relevant Office, the correctness of the decision in the exercise of the limits of my competence is demonstrated. My decision was dictated solely by good faith, impartiality, openness to my fellow citizens. To sum up, I say that I consider it an honour for my political morality to support and promote the protection of my fellow people from their punishing attitude to the detriment of the administration and to the extent of my powers and capabilities to stand in the way of the abusive exercise of power. Ladies and gentlemen, at the meeting of the committee responsible, it was decided unanimously not to waive my immunity. I particularly appreciate the unanimous decision taken by the committee, which is a rationalisation of the truth and of the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u129	By the way, it's by the majority. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u130	However, I would ask the House to give me the opportunity to defend my innocence so that, on the one hand, there can be no more favourable treatment and, on the other hand, that I have equal treatment with my former colleagues. With this awesome system, I went. I won't get away from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrios Emmanoulidis. The second request, is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Oh, no. Ladies and gentlemen, the roll-call vote will take place here. A list has been drawn up with the names of colleagues for requesting the waiver of immunity. Every colleague will vote next to the Members' names on whom the waiver of immunity is sought. The person voting in favour of the waiver of immunity takes note of his preference by the name of the Member and in the column ‘NEI’. In other words, 'NAH' to the request of the prosecutor requesting the waiver of immunity. The person voting against the waiver of immunity takes note of his preference by the name of the Member and in the column 'NOV'. The voter will take note of it in the respective ballot column. The vote will give each of its colleagues its name, its constituency and the parliamentary group to which it belongs. He will sign it, because the vote is roll-call. Then, after his name is made out by colleagues on the list, he will deliver the ballot to colleagues Mrs Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA and Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis from New Democracy, who will sign it and announce that the MP has voted. After the end of the vote there will be a counting of the votes by the Members I have mentioned, as will be the result of the ballots, which will be recorded together with the protocol of vote in the Minutes of today's sitting. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u132	The House unanimously agreed. I would like to inform you that letters and fax (fax) Members have been sent to the Bureau under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure to which they give their votes. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Mr Marios Katsis from SYRIZA and Mr Apostolos Vessiropoulos from New Democracy are on the list. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u133	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the High School of Megalopolis Arcadias. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u134	The vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and take the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] Ladies and gentlemen, before the result of the vote is announced, I would like to make two announcements to this House. The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs "Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the promotion and mutual protection of investments". Likewise, the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence "Conduct arms transfer issues, personnel care and other provisions". Also, parliamentarian II of Athens Mr.Theocharis Theocharis from Potami seeks permission from a few days' absence abroad for personal reasons for the period 21-1-2016 to 24-1-2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u135	The House approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Department of Megalopolis Arcadia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to inform the students that the House is empty because various Members are in the parliamentary committees that are currently meeting. In addition, we are at the end of a process in which all Members of Parliament have voted to waive immunity. This means that when a complaint is pending against a Member of Parliament and there is a request from the prosecutor to go to court, as is the case for any citizen, that is not the case for the Members, because the Members are covered by what is called 'parliamentary immunity'. In other words, the Member cannot be accused of going to court unless this immunity is waived by the House itself. In this case, we had two requesting prosecutors for two Members for some offences to be committed in order to go to court. On this issue, our Members have voted. The vote is currently being counted, which is with cardboard, but it is clear. In other words, we know what each Member has voted for. The vote will now take place and the vote will be announced. We then have two cases: if the Members say "NEI", that is to say, the waiver of immunity, that means that the MP will go to court and will be tried. If the House decides that there will be no waiver of immunity, that means that the MP will not go to court for trial. However, the question may arise because there is this immunity for Members. It is for Members to be able to do their jobs better, without risking them from being dragged to court. This, of course, is the offence for which a Member can go to court or not, must be related to his parliamentary activity. He may, in other words, say of someone that he's abusive or that an employee didn't do his job well without being in danger of being accused of slandering and going to court. However, if a Member commits a crime not related to his parliamentary activity, for example, a car accident, or a fraud to another citizen, or a misuse of money or anything, this has nothing to do with his parliamentary status and his function. In such cases the House decides to waive its immunity so that the Member concerned may be tried out. This immunity of Members applies to all parliamentarians. All Members of Parliament, almost all parts of the world, are protected so that they can exercise their parliamentary duties more comfortably. Today you are following the end of this process. Perhaps what I told you is more useful than following another procedure, where the Members of Parliament are speaking, and the decisions are taken when we have the voting procedure. As you know, the House is a legislature and has two big projects. One is to pass laws, after discussing them in the various committees, and the second is what is called parliamentary scrutiny, that is to say, that Members may exercise control over the executive, which is the government, with various questions. In the latter case there is a question of "why in this village or in this area, while there is a school, there are no teachers and teachers to serve" or "why the road you promised will be repaired, it has not been repaired yet". In this case, the Minister may answer in writing or, if the Member wishes, invite the Minister to this Chamber and we shall have a dialogue with a certain procedure - which makes no sense to describe it to you - and the Member is asking and answering the Minister on this matter. This process is broadcast live - everything is live - on television. When you open the channel of Parliament, you will see that there are such procedures. At the channel of the House, too, you can see that in the Chamber - good time - we have legislative work or other times you will see parliamentary control, as I said, namely questions and answers from the Minister. The rest of the time there are procedures on the channel of Parliament and there you see the meetings of the various committees. For example, as you are pupils, when we need to vote on a law relating to education and education, this law, before it comes here to be voted on, goes to the Committee on Educational Affairs, which is one of Parliament's committees, where Members from all parties are involved. There they discuss the bill in a more relaxed way than they do, in one, two or three meetings, they call on the parties concerned - this is what is called the hearing of bodies and, if they are the draft law of the Ministry of Education, they call on the associations of teachers, parents and other bodies - they hear their opinion, they have been consulted, the Minister responds and, after this whole process has been established and the committees have been finalised - in this case, in the example I mentioned, in the Committee on Forensic Affairs - it comes here. There is then a discussion procedure for one, two or even three meetings, depending on the size of the bill, and it is voted on. And then the bill is called the law. A bill is what comes as a draft in the House, and what is then passed is a law, which, in order for it to have effect as a law of the State, should be published officially in the Official Journal of the Government, in the G.E. Leaflet. He's getting a number from there, and he's making a state law. The voting procedure has now been completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of a roll-call vote on the request for waiver of immunity from Members. A total of 192 Members voted. On the case of Mr Dimitrios Emmanoulidis: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 9 Members voted. They voted against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OH', 182 MPs. Vote "PARTS" 1 Member. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. On the case of Mr Ilias Panayotarou: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 189 Members voted. 2 Members voted against the lifting of immunity. Vote "PARTS" 1 Member. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-21-S1-commons.u138	With the consent of the House at 15.13 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 22 January 2016 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the topical and urgent debate and (b) the debate on the number 82/12-9-12-2015 topical question to the Ministers for Health and Finance of Members of the Potamian Parliamentary Group on the National Health System.
