ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 6-10-2016, the Minutes of its Fourth Meeting of Thursday, 6 October 2016, with regard to the vote on all drafts of the law: (a) the Ministry of Finance "Structuring the Multilateral Agreement of Authorities on the Automatic Exchange of Financial Accounts Information and Implementing Provisions"; and (b) the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks "Recommendation of the Civil Aviation Authority, Restructuring of the Civil Aviation Service and other Provisions"]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I will read the timely questions that will not be discussed. In particular: The second, with number 33/4-10-2016, timely question for the first cycle of MP Athens, New Democracy, Kikilia, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the new complaints made by Mr. Buddouris that require immediate answers, will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr. Musala abroad. The third, with number 22/3-10-2016, top-stage question of the first-stage question of the Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the "blonde action by Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace", will not be discussed due to the lack of competence of the Minister. The sixth question, number 21/3-10-2016, of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Achaias, Potamio, Isona Fotilla, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the reintroduction of the single book price, will not be discussed due to the misguided obligations of the Minister responsible. The third, with number 23/3-10-2016, is a topical question for the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning "the meditation energy, the absence of a Greek flag at a meeting of the Prime Minister with the President of Turkey", will not be discussed due to the unsettled obligations of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Amanatidis. The fifth question, under number 36/4-10-2016, is a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the problem of professional high schooling, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education Mr. Nicholas Phili. Because of the unsettled obligations. The sixth question under number 26/3-10-2016 of the Independent MEP Lakonia Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Health on the procedure for selecting directors to the National Health System (NSS), will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis. Because of the unsettled obligations. The second, with number 344-10-2016, topical question by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the progress of the work of district heating Florina, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction. Because of the unsettled obligations. The first, with number 30/4-10-2016, a top-stage question for the first cycle of MP II Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Irene (Nina) Kasimatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy concerning the suspension of the sales store PPC Salamis from 01-10-2016 will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr. Skourletis. It's because of the workload. On these grounds, as every time, a letter from the Secretary-General of the Government, Mrs Kalleros, confirming the reasons, has been sent to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Gregorako, why are you asking for a reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, I would like to say a few words on the postponement of my question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u6	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, I will paraphrase a phrase of Poultza, which said that 'the first time on the left there will be if it is creative or then there will not be at all'. For eight months now, Mr President, I have asked Mr Tsakalotos about the cooperative banks in the Peloponnese. For eight months my question has been taken, and for eight months Mr Tsakalotos has not been here to answer the question. This is an unprecedented phenomenon. You are an old parliamentarian, as I do, and I do not remember, ladies and gentlemen, that the Greek Parliament was against it. Listen, parliamentarianism has rules, and that is not an accidental finding of our democracy. There is a situation, because against the government, there are MPs, there is dialogue, there is consultation, there is something very important and essential. When parliamentarianism does not work, then it surely suffers from the quality of democracy. So today, Mr President, I have had a question to Mr Polakis, which, of course, you can understand, is timely. The topical questions, as the phrase itself says, are timely. And yet Mr Paulakis has not been coming to answer my question for four weeks. The question concerns the issue of the directors of the National Health System. The current government, as did Mr Paulakis with the CEDEFOP - and yesterday, of course, as you have seen, Mr Giannopoulos and the others who appealed to the Council of State - has again begun the procedures for the decision of the Directors of the National Health System, which were submitted in 2007. Who lives and dies today, in 2016. But what's going on? Without councils, without any legal procedure, Mr President, he is making progress in the judgments of directors of the National Health System. This is downright, ladies and gentlemen. This is against the National Health System and the quality of democracy, Mr President. Mr President, I would like you to pass on to the President of this House that it is not possible for there to be a Member who has been tabling his question every week, who is being paid every week and every week to cancel the question from Mr Tsakalots. As you can see, the topical questions also have a specific reason why they are timely. Mr Paulakis cannot answer that question after five months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u9	When you answer a question, I will give you extra time to place yourself. Mr Gregorakos, on the substance of what you have said, I cannot take a position on the timely question that has been raised today because I am not allowed to do so. However, I would like to endorse what you have said on a point of order. Besides, this isn't the first time I've said it. I must tell you that the President of this House is not happy either. That is why I am saying this once again, now with the new summit, we will begin the revision of the Rules of Procedure in Part Two, including parliamentary scrutiny, to see what we can do to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u10	Parliament is being denounced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u11	It has been discussed at the Conference of Presidents and a protest has been made by all the parties about what you are saying. From there on, because I am in the Bureau, for the first Minister you said, I do not want to mention my personal example. It's almost the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u12	I've got eight months, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u13	Now by the way today there are three people with whom, in any case, you may have your political differences as opposition, but I must say that they are among the people who honor parliamentary control and the three who are here today. There are other colleagues who are at the other end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u14	I would ask you, Mr President, to give me the floor because Mr Gregorakos is going to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u15	Yeah, I'll give him to you. Here you go, Minister, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u16	I wanted the floor, so that Mr Tsakalotos would not be surprised. Mr. Tsakalotos, from the powers given to him, has the Ministry's international relations. A large part of his ministerial duties have it in presence abroad and are preparing for these presences.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u17	He's not coming, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u18	Wait a minute. Well, well, this morning we had to tell him to come from abroad...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u19	No question today, Mr. Chakalotos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u20	But there was criticism today about Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u21	He didn't mention it. Today, Mr. Gregorakos had a question about Mr. Polakis. He just mentioned it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u22	Yeah, but the criticism he heard was for Mr. Chakaloto. Mr. Tsakalotos is now absent abroad. For other days, it's another case. However, because we have spoken too much about this issue, see the other side. See those who are trying to be consistent and are Monday, Tuesday and Friday in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u23	Good. Mr Alexiadis, I told you next time that I appreciate the effort. If I were you, I'd probably do the same. But now let that be better, because I happen to have seen him in the hallway of Parliament and cancel my question that was on that day, due to a workload. Leave it now. That's enough. Well, we begin with the first with number 31/4-10-2016 time question of the second question of the Grevena MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Beyala to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the free concession of the use of the property of the “Dimitra” Grevena centre located in the area of Meras of the Municipality of Grevena. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the Municipality of Grevenons there is the building of the ERIC of rural development which has been empty for many years and is not working. It is not used why the services of the Ministry of Rural Development were transferred a number of years ago - about a decade ago - to the new building that had been built at the time of the administration, in which the counter-region is housed - prefecture before, anti-region today - and where almost all the services of the county and the municipality have been gathered. This building today remains unusable and unfortunately accepts the deterioration of time and of not being used. Of course, Grevena Municipality, based on its document No 13088/8-7-2016, asks the Ministry of Rural Development to grant free concessions for the use of the land area 7.689.5 m2. and building facilities located in it. It should be noted, of course, that in 2012, under Protocol No 520/21258/22-2-2012 of the then Minister for Rural Development, the building was allocated to the Ministry of Civil Protection to cover the housing needs of the Grevenian police services. Today, however, this reason for the concession has been omitted for the simple reason, that in the Municipality of Grevenes and in the city of Grevenes there is a newly built semi-built building, which is the Ministry of Civil Protection, but was erected at the time for the operation of the School of Police. Today, however, until a moment ago, with the visit of the Civilian Secretary-General and the Chief of Police, we went to this new building and the police services of the whole prefecture were decided to stay there and a change in use of the building was signed last week. The consequence of these actions is the building of the JRC, the DIMITRA Agency, does not need for this use. Thus, Grevena Municipality submitted the request to your Ministry to be granted, in order to use these buildings in the 2014-2020 Sustainable Urban Development Programme, as a pluralist but with the visibility, promotion and exposure of mushrooms and local agricultural products. In other words, the building of the Ministry of Rural Development will be exploited by the municipality for the promotion of agricultural products and mushrooms. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to point out here that the town of Grevena has been declared the city of the mushroom, Grevenes is an area where wild mushrooms are a special package and I think it is well known throughout Greece, but also visits abroad.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u25	The request is to be granted, to pick up a little bit, because we've been over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u26	The request, Mr President - and I am closing - is that the previous concession should be lifted immediately to the Ministry of Civil Protection and granted to the municipality. The urgency, however, is that in the next few months, and by the end of the year, the programmes of the NRP will run, so the Grevenes Municipality will have to have...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u27	Good. Keep something for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u28	...the concession to proceed with the studies of the NRP.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u30	First of all, Mr President, I must stress that the government is trying, with the possibilities it has for the work it has done - we all understand that - particularly at this time - to respond to parliamentary control. I am opposed, Mr Gregorakos, to the anti-parliamentary functions of an area which, at least until now, has served as much as any other party in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u31	In practice, Minister! Tell them elsewhere, Minister, tell them where they hear you. You should say that somewhere else, where you know and you're laughing. You're not fooling anyone here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Gregoraco! Answer the question now, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u33	I now reply to the question by my colleague. Indeed, by decision of the Ministry of Rural Development, in 2012, the free use of part of the property of “DIMITRA” in Grevena for the needs of the Ministry of Civil Protection had been granted. The Grevena Municipality has, in fact, submitted this request and is asking for the use of part of the property and really wants to promote local agricultural products. However, ladies and gentlemen, we must point out that the previous municipal authority, by means of an implementation act in 2010, has misled it, of course, in its ownership. The Ministry sent the titles of ownership of these areas to the municipality in 2013, of course calling for the property to be registered as State ownership. That is why we consider it necessary, in order to consider the request, to make two moves. Firstly, there must be the assent - indeed the colleague of the Ministry of Civil Protection mentioned - and, secondly, a corrective measure must be adopted by the municipality, in accordance with the provisions and the ownership of the public. From there on, of course, we will consider the request. Already, the municipality is committed to making use of this property for agricultural use. So, immediately, once these procedures have been completed, we will proceed to the concession. We believe that, particularly for the region and for the need to use a special product, mushrooms and also in general the possibilities it has in the rural area, this concession will make a great contribution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u34	Here, Mr. Beyala, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u35	Minister, that is why I raised the matter as a topical question and told you in my protagonist that all these deadlines and all these bureaucratic procedures must be brought quickly, which are today blocking the signing of the concession that could be made if there were no stumbling blocks. It should therefore be very quickly 'run' all these bureaucratic procedures, which you mentioned before, to prevent the announcement of the new NSRP programmes so that during the 2014-2020 NSRP period the whole layout of the space as an exhibition area for the promotion of agricultural products and especially mushrooms can be integrated. I am pleased to see the request positively and I ask the Ministry to run all these bureaucratic procedures as quickly as possible, with our assistance of the Municipality of Grevena and also with the assistance of the Ministry of Civil Protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u36	As far as I understand it, the Minister has committed himself to accepting the request. Turning back now, you have to make sure that a revocation of the decision of the then Municipal Council arises, because it has made it a precondition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u37	That is how it should be, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u38	Otherwise, you will come back here again in three months and we will discuss the same subject. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u39	So, Mr President, the municipality must withdraw this implementing act.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u40	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u41	We shall proceed to this concession. I would like to say something, however, because there is indeed a problem regarding all the areas and all the properties of this PICTRA organisation and, of course, the Ministry of Rural Development. Already, with L.4384/2016, we established an Agency that will manage the properties, land and equipment of the Ministry of Rural Development. For the time being, we have entered the recording process. We have already exceeded one million eight hundred thousand acres of agricultural land, which can be spent on agricultural use. We count on the properties we have, so that at some point we say that this is the property of the public, the Ministry of Rural Development, and in these ways we will use it. In this case, this concession is a way of making real use of the benefit of local society.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u42	We move on to the discussion of the fourth under number 19/3-10-2016 topical question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the compensation of farmers due to the huge damage caused to crops and livestock in Arcadia by the theory of June 25th. Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you will know what happened in Arcadia on 25 June. I will tell you the words of Mr Balafas, which the government sent, along with the President of the ELGA and a staff of many ministries. He said Mr Balafas at a farmer's meeting in Tegea that the disaster was biblical. In fact, I've asked dozens of questions. The KHS that came yesterday and bears the signature of the government - to exclude, to be fair, and to say that the only minister who ran quickly is Mr Alexiadis, who could, that he did, and came out long before the KHS, I say this to be fair to what I say - unfortunately disappointed 70% of the Arcadia population. To understand, she only puts her houses in disasters. He's got the government all over the world going to testify for devices and everything, and none of this happened. Now let's go to yours and see what you're going to do as a ministry to avoid disappointing and, as Mr Balafas said, stop the farmers' production forever in Arcadia. First of all, it's over at 90% after four months of recording. You sent me a note. But there are two big issues. You have to answer us today. First of all, do not do the same thing as the FLAG did, compensation discounts. Here I want to tell you very clearly that there are complaints. I say that the political leadership - and I want you to disprove this to me - and the person in charge of Acardia, Mr Angelopoulos, are reducing, making discounts on the disasters because there is no money. That, Minister, I would like you to deny it because it will be a little while, and say that under no circumstances will we reduce and make any discounts on the disasters so that we do not give the money they need, because there is biblical catastrophe. Secondly, I have told you - I had also told Mr Balafas, because he was the representative - that farmers have a request. Their request is whether ELGA's contributions could be offset by compensation. It's a fair request. Thirdly, please, Minister, give us a timeline for when these people will be compensated and can be re-produced. The farmers are already asking for the money and do not give them credit for the next year. So you understand that if they can't grow now, there won't be any sorrow for the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u44	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Colleague, do you want to see how things work out? The government has visited almost all the regions affected by either fires or floods, such as the one we are discussing. So we have a complete and clear picture. Secondly, the ELGA budget has already increased, overcoming the possibilities it had under the existing legislation - you know that this year was too difficult - and that all is being paid. There is no case in any case of what will come out of the estimates, which are already completed for the region concerned and which are covered in insurance by the ELGA, not to be paid in full. Why am I saying that? I say this because we are currently in the process of transferring the findings of the specific assessments from OPEKEPE to ELGA, because all of this needs to be confirmed on the basis of geographical data. Once this process is completed, be sure that those affected and covered by ELGA, that is to say, production, talking about the livestock lost, will be paid immediately. However, there are other losses, which we are trying as hard as possible, with the resources we can secure, to cover, for example, income losses over the next few years, the destruction of fixed installations. The process is well known and you know it. A file shall be drawn up and, through State aid, the known PCIs, if approved by the European Commission, shall follow their payment. There was a delay in this process. So what I would like to convey to you is that at this time discussions are taking place in the European Commission. In fact, on Monday in Luxembourg, where the agricultural Council is in existence, there will be a reduction in bureaucratic procedures in order to abolish double verification when the Member States are asking for State aid for the cases of farmers affected by natural disasters. This means that time is reduced immediately to half as compared to the previous situation. Of course, as you can see and know, as far as state aid is concerned, it cannot exceed 15-16 million per year through this procedure. We also have the specific programme for rural development '5/2' - which we will start the notices and evolve - which covers damage caused by natural disasters. That is where we start with a sum of 15 million, which we can immediately amend and reach 45 million to cover damage recovery costs. So we're trying in all ways. Be sure that if the relevant procedure is completed, there will be immediate payments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-four students and students and three educational escorts from the Elementary School of Liberties of Salamis. Welcome to the Greek Parliament, boys! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u47	Minister, I will not tell you anything more, but because the Arcadia farmers are certainly listening to us and are waiting for answers from you, I would like to tell you that things are very simple. It's like pensions. Even if I say you're cut, too, the other guy who goes to the ATM knows about it. The same goes for compensation. Whatever you say, no matter what I say, the Arcadia farmer knows what Mr Balafas told him, ELGA President in Tripoli. So whatever I say to him, he'll end up and figure out whether or not this happened. But you will allow me to tell you that we have been talking about the same things - which is why I mentioned the HR - and about the devices. In fact, I would like to tell you that on 5 August, when the union and, in fact, the local SYRIZA visited Mr Bolaris, they issued a communication on an integrated plan for the relaunch of Arcadia. In fact, the agricultural cooperative, which is not friendly to us, says: "...it is expected by the ministries, but if there are no tax reliefs - arrangements in the OGA and ELGA, farmers will find it difficult to re-enter the next growing season." It's not us! They said that with Mr. Bolarius. Mr. Bollaris announced that he was on the stools with a comprehensive plan of millions in Arcadia. That was the result of the meeting with them. But we're going to this. I have a paper on 29-7-2016 by ELGA, which says that there has been a mess and some of these damages are covered by ELGA, by state aid, there are appropriate conditions. And he says: "Fries have been destroyed and secondly cereals, horticulture and so on." I tell you it's not in second place, but 100%. Significantly, it says, hail damage to apples, pears, cherry, covered by the ELGA. We're talking about a 100% disaster. Mr Balafas saw them and said it was a biblical disaster. The same happens in livestock. But you say: 'The estimates of damage to plant production are expected to be completed by the relevant branch in the summer - we are today in October! - and the findings were communicated in September, to complete the procedure. You're talking about it! I'm not talking about it. The President of ELGA, Mr. Kurebes. He's not mine! Minister, I understand what you say about the European Commission, but you did not really tell us when this process will be completed. I have heard - and I keep it - that there is no political initiative toward Mr Angelopoulos - because there are complaints, and that is why I say this to you, and I say it to you publicly - about reductions and reductions in disasters. Why? About everything you said about weaknesses. And secondly, I told you something, which I proposed to Mr Balafas, and I thought he would let you know. If we can, there can be a set-aside for ELGA contributions, which could go to the CSCE - and I am not telling you about anything else, and I think you want it - with compensation, so that these people do not need to pay contributions, while they have been destroyed and cannot be provided by the geopolitics. Minister, I understand the difficulties. It was a difficult year for all of Greece and I understand that the other counties have the same problems. But when he sees the step of the ELGA - quite rightly you said that the government came with Minister, President of ELGA, OPEKEPE, Secretary-General - and in the CYA he does nothing of what he says, I want to say to you - that we have a lot of objections, if you don't actually tell us...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u48	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u49	...what will happen next time. Thank you very much. And I'll see you around. It's for sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u50	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u51	Mr Colleague, we will deal with your complaint. And of course, I cannot tell you at this time that I accept your complaint. It needs to be explored and the appropriate ones made. The second thing I have to say is that any damage covered by the ELGA will be compensated. Of course, it is now whether the premium has been paid or not. So we are in 2016, which means that by the end of 2016 we can make it easier for these farmers to pay the premium. We are not talking about clearing procedures right now. You must realise that we have an insurance body called ELGA, which operates in return and must in any case have its resources at any time, because unfortunately we are a country that is constantly repeating these phenomena. The procedures for assessing, adopting the demands, heading the findings do not take place from one day to the next. You know that, and it's something we've been working on for years. This is provided for in the Statute, by the establishment plan of the ELGA. For the rest of the damages, which are not covered by the ELGA - I told you and I repeat - that we are thinking at national level about how things have worked this year, so we can claim all the resources that can help in this direction. Therefore, since we have had no clear picture of what is happening at national level, but also in every regional section, I cannot help you any more than that all available possibilities will be exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u52	We move to the fifth, with number 35/4-10-2016, a timely question for the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Etolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Ministers of Home Affairs and Management, on support for the affected residents of Lefkada from the fire of August 8 and the restoration of damage. The question will be answered by the Minister, Mr. Treasury Alexiadis. Here you go, Mr. Moratis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Minister. Minister, although two months have elapsed since the fire of August 8th in Lefkada, which left behind ashes eight buildings in which sixteen homeless families lived, were also destroyed two small stores that families had made their bread, nothing has happened at all. There is still no conclusion from the information we have from the affected. In short, the wounded have been left to mercy without a roof. They walk around the relatives as guests. All that happened was that they were told to go to some accommodations in the Church, but they do not meet the standards to stay popular families. The fire, Mr Minister, has in the most unequivocal way highlighted a major problem, particularly in Lefkada. So what did he show up for? The total lack of fire protection measures. And we say this, especially for the city of Lefkada, because you obviously know that it is a city where a large part of the houses, especially in the poor neighborhoods of the city, due to the seismicity of the region, are wooden structures, which are exposed to the fire. The responsibilities of both the state and local authorities are crucial. I'll tell my denture exactly what happened and what the fire department said. Because there were no protection measures to deal with such phenomena. We ask for specific answers, Minister. To be given by the state budget to these affected money to repair damage to devices, clothing and other items. The main thing, however, is to take measures and give money to rebuild these dwellings. Let me note that there is total destruction damage to a traditional cinema in the city. Minister, do not do what you have done for earthquakes in Lefkada - I shall then mention - which you have given a six-month suspension of debts and now they have all come to the head, after six months have elapsed. Because the earthquake took place just a year ago last November. We are also calling, Minister, for measures to be taken to be specific to earthquakes. For some of the government’s announcements have not only been made, but instead these inhabitants have been allowed to live in desperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u54	Mr Alexiadis has the floor. I don't know if he can answer for fire protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. I can't answer all the ministries. It's very clear. The question concerns two ministries: the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and the Ministry of Finance. I'll tell you later about the interior department. As far as the Ministry of Finance is concerned, I will reply and submit to you all the relevant documents in order to save everything we can from time to time, Mr Papoutsis. I will submit the relevant documents of the General Secretariat for Public Revenue on the subject, the General Secretariat for Budget Policy and the General Secretariat for Economic Policy of the Ministry of Finance, which respond to the issues you raised. On the matter of the Ministry of Finance and what it does for earthquakes in Lefkada: I'm so sorry. I understand from your criticism that you give us that: 'Nothing has happened'. I will mention specific things: FEC 1-12-2015, extension of deadlines for submitting tax declarations. Here, let me stress that when there is a natural disaster - not when a fire breaks out in a house or in a shop - the Civil Protection makes a decision and declares the area in an emergency. And he comes after the Ministry of Finance and extends the deadlines for submitting tax obligations. The extension by itself to simply Greek says: "We continue until then". These obligations cannot be deleted. That's very clear. So they have to be paid by then. Therefore, on 31-12-2015 an extension of the payment of certified debts, on 26-2-2016 an extension and suspension for the municipalities of Lefkada and Meganesiou, and on 3-6-2016 a settlement of outstanding debts due to the earthquake of 17-11-2015 to the municipalities of Lefkada, Meganesi, where there is a special arrangement for these debts. Finally, L.4387/12-2016, on the subject of HNVIA: ‘Buildings with the relevant floor on them, located within the Regional Units of Lefkada and Ithaca, which have been proven to have damaged the earthquakes in November 2015, are exempted from HNVIA for the years 2015 and 2016.’ No, it's not just that what you said, that we did nothing - but it's barely what we did in Lefkada, for example, for HISBIA, we were unable to do it in other areas where we had the same or even greater disasters. So that is not the case. In my dentistry, I'll say about the Interior Ministry. On the subject of ENVIRONMENT: In both these real estate and other real estate, which have suffered natural disaster, there is the possibility of reducing even the deletion of HNVY, depending on what damage the property has suffered. In particular, there is a circular and relevant law on this matter. It is the circular 1052/19-2-2014, which clearly says - it is the document of the Directorate-General I have submitted to you - that if the building is partially or totally destroyed, then there is a reduction or discount of HISPIA. And if there is a partial lack of housing or other material damage that makes it non-functional, characteristics that directly refer to an earthquake, plunged, firefighted or damaged, etc. it is indicated as incomplete, if there is a document supporting the taxpayer's claims...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u56	Don't read all the circular, Minister, testify to it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u57	I've filed it in the Minutes. I'm done. In short, he says that whoever has such a problem declares his real estate as incomplete or devastated and has a reduction or exemption from HNVY. There's no way we didn't do anything. We have done too much and we will still do in the context that we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u58	Thank you. Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u59	Minister, that is why the people of the region, those affected by the fire and the earthquake, as I said, are indignant. They're angry. What did we tell you? Yes, you postponed to pay for the tax office and the municipality. After six months you tell these unleashed people: "Now pay." You said something else. To pay low-costs for those who have suffered damage to a certain extent their dwellings. In other words, they should also be outdated and paid HISPIAN for houses that do not live and try to see where they will house their families. Of course, Minister, this is not the first time. It's a constant tactic from both the previous and the previous ones. When the lighting machines are on, and when television cameras take, you give promises, sympathize, sympathize with the wounded, but once the news lights stop, all of this stops. Minister, you have done something, for example, you have given some money for the construction of roads, rural and other roads. For those affected, however, no relief measures were taken. Of course, we don't have any delusion. The president said it wasn't about the fire brigade. Listen, a step of the KKE a year ago he visited the Firefighting on the island. Do you know what the chiefs put us in there in the firehouse? Due to the specificity, the mountains must be ready, because there are narrow streets in Lefkada. Such measures must be taken from the state and from the counties, from the state, and from Tropical Region, so that the roads can be opened. Of course, that was not the case, and the answers from the firefighting unit didn't exist. There were storms that had no water and others did not work. They also raised a question that fire-fighting vehicles should be provided, which can intervene on these narrow roads instantly. That was not the case, and that is why we really had a total disaster. Tropical and world viewers remained, and all of them became a paradox of fire. They couldn't interfere. The responsibilities are therefore decisive. Of course, we know that such works, and especially for the town of Lefkada, are not taken, because these projects leave no gap to the manufacturers. But you're getting the big construction groups into plenty of money, tax them on the shipowners, but not on the one hand, but on the other. It's a serious matter, Minister. And what you said is that some do not pay HISPIAN for a year or two or give a suspension, postponement in respect of tax declarations, are those measures that can alleviate the wounded? We are clearly saying 'no'. That's why we're asking for specific answers. We need measures to be taken. Especially those affected by the fire didn't say anything at all. I told you in the initial position that today two months later - tomorrow is just two months - there is no record, there is no conclusion. This world is really at mercy. We are now addressing the inhabitants of the island and we tell them that they must take the case into their hands. Because we believe that, in order to take relief measures, it is a matter of the people's movement itself and to give a definitive solution to their suffering, there must be other policies that at the heart of the people's needs and not the profitability of capital, because that has proved to be the case. After all, Mr Minister, because it has been said earlier, there is also a document here. if necessary invoking the European Union's lupus alliance, that it will give relief to the affected. Here for the fire in Chios, the response from the European Commission - and I will table it in the Minutes - is that disasters for people's households are not eligible. Others shall be eligible. I'll submit it to the Minutes. Another very serious issue is that the affected will not get one euro, as my colleague from Arcadia said earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u60	Finish it, Mr. Moraite. Leave Chios now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u61	The point is that these disasters are ineligible and must exceed, if I remember correctly, 1.5% of gross national product at regional level. In other words, for Chios, for example, it's about 40 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Moraite, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u63	We therefore consider that the wounded must take the case in their hands, really fight for measures, which will give real relief to their problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u64	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u65	Your Honor, I am an ex-parliamentary, I am not a MP. But in order to be able to respond to my role here in the House, I have sat down and read too many things. Being here the Minister of Finance and answering a question you asked about two Ministers and insisting that you put issues relating to other ministries, I understand the television needs, but it has nothing to do with my presence here, which I have clearly spoken about. As far as the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and the other Ministries concerned are concerned, I will present you with a document from the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Interior, the Administrative Reconstruction, the other Directorate-General, the Ministry of Labour and Social Security and Social Solidarity, a number of documents that respond to the responsibilities of the other Ministries. There is no possibility for me to respond to the other ministries. In the rest, however, to which you referred, it is not wrong to disagree. It is a great deal of political disagreement that we have. It's bad that we can't reach agreement. You say here that we have given tax exemptions to large capital and to shipowners. Tell me one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u66	Seventy-five tax exemptions!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u67	Tell me one we voted for.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u68	You can relieve not seafarers, but shipowners.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u69	Mr Moraite, the Minister has heard you even out of the question you have spoken about. Don't interrupt him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u70	I'm not out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u71	Let's close, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u72	In relation to the timeline, unless it was.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u73	As far as this government is concerned, how much shipping has been taxed, with tax measures, we have tabled it in response to your own Members and we have explained. From 12-13 million, which was its annual charge, we have exceeded 130 a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u74	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u75	Uh, yeah, okay. We had to take them to 15 billion and the shipping operations were to leave and go abroad. That's a point of view too. Many other countries in the European Union have this view. I'm glad you identify yourself with them. As far as these specific issues are concerned, however, I have told you that we have made specific arrangements on the issue of Lefkada for natural disasters. When a disaster, like...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u76	Please tell me about the fire.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u77	When there's a catastrophe in property, not by natural disaster, but by other reason, I'm inappropriate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u78	One yard, tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u79	You're wrong with me and I'm here too. I came from courtesy to answer you. There must be a natural disaster so that I can intervene. It is the responsibility of other ministries, whether there is a disaster not by natural disaster, by natural causes, but by other causes. Nevertheless, in the documents we are tabling, there is a response to all these issues. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u80	I too, Mr. Alexiadis. We're getting to the end. The fourth question will be discussed with number 20/3-10-2016 for the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the delays in the completion of three extremely important projects for the functioning of the IKA. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Mr. Loverdo, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Petropoulou, my question is very specific, beans measured, and I don't need any more general references. The system of pension award by the IKA - EBRD is under way in one day, under way, the system of tax evasion monitoring to the same body and under threat of interruption - as far as I am aware - the system of production support for the IKA. I've asked my question since the summer, but now it's time. It's not your fault, it's Parliament's turn. In October the people who informed me, because the contractor in September, for a risk of interruption, was not compatible with the contractor. I would like to ask you, and I would ask you very much to have some specific answers. I have no general political reference to do today for you and the Ministry. However, in the one minute that I have left, Mr President, I would like you to allow me to make a more general reference. In my mind, the late Constantine Karamanlis and Andreas Papandreou, as well as the Prime Minister Kostas Simitis and Kostas Karamanlis who made revisions of the Greek Constitution, appealing solely to the parliamentary procedure, in other words, respecting the institution, I would like to compare this extremely institutional practice with the current practice of the current Prime Minister, who set up a committee to do, he says, a social dialogue on the revision of the Constitution, which reminds me, Mr President, of a dictatorship. Georgios Papadopoulos did so twice with supposed social dialogue and committees, a regime of anti-democratics. I have repeatedly stressed that in many cases SYRIZA does not remind a democratic party. It's a very intense moment right now. And in order to take it somewhere else, Mr President - and apologise for the exaggeration, but through the exaggeration I want to show exactly what I mean - what they lack to find an artist, such as the late George Economics to sing "NEI" to the Constitution. They need to rethink what they're doing. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. I don't know what's the most important thing about Mr. Loverdo if it's his question or his comment. Obviously, it's his comment and I can't answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u84	Answer the question and I will show you tolerance, if you like, to answer the second part.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u85	As regards the current question, we all know that from 13 May there is a new social security system. This new social security system necessarily leads to a change in the parametering that existed for the operation of the systems that so far operated for the service of the IKA. The pension provision is no longer just for the IKA, it is for all the individual bodies who are now incorporated into the ECA. We have good communication and cooperation and consultation with the company that provides these support services to the IKA. They know very well that they need to change some of the parameters in the functioning of these systems. It is no longer the IKA, and we cannot go to a contract that concerns only the IKA, when the pension will be for all the institutions. Therefore, they need to change the tools used and the company knows that. That is why we have the agreement that we shall proceed with the examination of the systems so that this system can function as a whole in order to meet all the needs of the Single Social Security Agency. We must also bear in mind that an integrated monitoring system for dealing with undeclared and black work has been installed by the same company. We are already in a process where companies and businesses from all over the country enter the system with code, to make this interconnection, and that is where the control of tax evasion will also be touched. Therefore, there is a good relationship that I think does not justify any concern that it will remain without support from the IKA. They know and know that we need to move on to that, and we are in this process. The issue of constitutional reform, namely whether it should be a matter of concern to the entire Greek people and whether dialogue should be diffuse in all layers of society, is a matter of political choice. This is what must finally be done in the country: all the people must enter, with the sides that can be expressed, active and mobilised in the debate on the constitutional review, and that in no case replaces the parliamentary procedure. I think that the greater democratic involvement of the Greek people does not harm such great achievements, which must come to strengthen our democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u86	I'll give Mr. Loverdo the floor. I'm not an expert. Old congressman, but I'm not an expert, like Mr. Loverdos. I just think that Mr Loverdos meant that it was primarily a parliamentary revision without, Mr Petropoulou, meaning that the then committees that made the proposal of the revision were not entitled - and they did - to call for, for example, representatives of the government to tell them their views on the revision. But the work was done by the House. Not that that meant he couldn't have had a dialogue. And there was a dialogue with representatives from social groups. I think that's what Mr. Loverdos meant.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u87	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u88	Anyway, as an old-fashioned experience. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u89	I would like, Minister, to know whether the projects remain part of the NSRP or whether these delays have led to response. I hope the first one happens. Secondly, I would like you to tell me whether there are issues, as you say - if I understood you correctly - about the specifications. Why don't they change for twenty months? You've been close to the government for two years. What is the delay since you received two projects in progress, crucial to the Greek people? Specifically, the identification of the evasion with the specifications of the system means the possibility of tracing tax evasion to undertakings having a number of months of operation. You may not be able to locate the company that was founded yesterday, but after six months of the activities they are developing, you also develop your data and sensors to track the tax evasion. Why, if problems have been identified in the specification for so many months, two years close, haven't you solved it? In relation to the first point I asked, with the production support system of the IKA, is the closure of the system being threatened by this October, or has all the difficulties been overcome? Finally, because Mr Kaklamanis understands perfectly well and understands that anyone has even a little term in this House on the revision of the Constitution, I would like to ask myself rhetorically, Minister, if the majority are aware of what the people say about it. Many times - this, of course, is not about you - that many majority colleagues come with dress choices which are peculiar and their own. Their right may be, but also our right not to take the House as a beach and an obligation for the President of Parliament and the Quaestors, who were elected the other day, to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure in this respect. And since they come here like that, they are then transferred to the Maximos Mansion to enjoy each other's drinks. The Prime Minister is trying to lure judges in the morning, and at night he's buying drinks. He's dissatisfied with the people after two years. He's displeased. And I insist, Minister, that if you have anything to give him - because politically you have failed everything - they are in the technicalities, which one would call them'small issues', to demonstrate adequacy and to go quickly. These works to deliver. I don't care if you'll deliver them during your term of office or another Minister in the future. It is useful for the Greek people instead of dealing with various other things that do not care about him at all and mean nothing to his life, to show that where he suffers, in his pocket and soul, you are at least technically sufficient. Please be very specific in the answers. I think my question to you and in a global way is being tabled and very specific is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u90	Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u91	However, you raise issues that cannot be left unanswered. If you only stayed in the question, I would tell you that the present government a few days ago has completed a year of service. Don't let us be short on time. In May the law was passed. Therefore, if you do not have any provisions to implement the relevant systems by programmers, then neither the calibration nor any processing of these systems can be carried out. So there is no delay. On the contrary, we are working with too many committees and with the technical assistance of the SRSS, which is a special service within the European Union. We are working systematically on all the systems that we will change, so that we can have the single social security institution, which will give the pension, at the latest, in seventeen days' time. It's counted, and that's how it will be. The system itself will produce this result. It will occur when it operates through its new form. We believe that, when the system is completed, with the new provisions that will apply, over seventeen days will not pass. When the insured person gets retired...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u92	When will it be over? If you can answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u93	On his own, I'm telling you. My answer is: From the same system will come out of the method of calculating the pensions laid down for the insured person. Since 2002, we have had the electronic data data elements. Therefore, whoever completes 15 years of insurance and sixty-seven years of age from 2002 onwards or forty years of insurance and sixty-two years of age will have this effect. These programmes have not been disfellowshipped. It is within the programmes we have, of course, as well as their function. I thank you for your question, because if I have to worry - which I did not have a sample of that I should be concerned about - I will contact the providers and contractors because there is such a cause for concern to resolve the issues that need to be addressed. I think that evolution will be positive for all the insured and we will be able to have a good result, Mr. Loverdos. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u94	Good. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-07-S1-commons.u95	With the agreement of the House at 11.27 minutes, the sitting for Monday, October 10, 2016, at 14.30 seconds, on the subject of the House's work: a pre-dated debate, in accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, at the initiative of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, at the level of party leaders, on the exclusive issue of the phenomena of interoperable and corruption and their influence on the country's institutional and political system and their response.
